ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181188	I can say, I can say, and then we'll start, then the time will start, which will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, Mr. Lenart, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181189	I thank you, dear Vice President, here I am a peasant and I must admit that more nonsense in one place than Glasovic said now I've never heard of agriculture has no idea. Here today I will talk about Sisak-Moslavina County, where the revision of Sisak-Moslavina County is headed by Mayor Ivo Žinić and Roman Rosavec, members of HDZ, people who boast that they are great patriots, but do everything the opposite and are a great shame and that is HDZ. The planned budget in Sisak-Moslavina County was 824 million, at the end of the year raising it by 73 million to 897 million, and then in the Implementation Report it was achieved with 660 million i.e. 26% less, 721 million was realised, so more spent than was earned. Original budget of Sisak-Moslavina County for 2018. It's 195 million kuna, which is 13% less than the year before, although taxes were 67% higher than the year before. What's the problem in this county are major irregularities, so says the revision that part of the income is worth 5.7 million kuna in terms of hunting for rents, concessions for hunting rights, donations, not spent on purpose, the county received and advances of 3.5 million kuna for the project of an educational demonstration centre for demining, mine polluted areas which also in 2/3 have no reports in which... spent, spent for other purposes. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The lack of income was transferred from 2017. 22 million, 20 million deficits occurred in 2018. which is 43 million kuna missing. Obligations are made at the end of the year of 85 million and 237 thousand kuna. The County granted the company Simora 3.5 million kuna for which the agency did not deliver the reports properly, it delivered only for the first quarter and at the end of the year, but failed to provide documentation with contracts and accounts on the operations carried out, so it does not know what it was spent on. Public procurement in this county is carried out in this way, the procedures for simple procurement of one million kuna have not been fully implemented in accordance with the provisions of the county regulation, no expert commission for the implementation of the procedure has been established, the officers who carried out the proceedings have not signed a declaration of the existence or absence of a conflict of interest, the invitation to tender has not been sent to any economic operator and no tenders have been received. Here you can see how money is spent in Sisak-Moslavina County, the county that is the poorest of all counties in the Republic of Croatia. At the end of 2018, the County had 10 official vehicles, passenger work orders and lists to be certified monthly. The passenger passports for two official vehicles, and obviously the vehicles of the mayor and the mayor do not contain data on the date of travel, the number of travel orders, names and last name of the driver, the state of the number of kilometers before and after the return, the time of departure and return, the route, the number of persons to be carried out, the costs incurred in the time of travel, the taking of fuel, the washing and the second and the signature of the driver, and cannot be confirmed by who and for which needs the official vehicle used and whether the costs incurred by the use of the vehicle are justified. I repeat again, Ivo Žinic, a HDZ member, I ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who will take on such mayors, here today someone was saying that the counties should be abolished, such counties that are so proud of taxpayers' money, and they are poor, they should certainly be abolished, such mayors are the disgrace of the Republic of Croatia and the party they belong to. This is just part of the review report, unfortunately due to the time I can no longer carry out, there are still problems at Sisak Hospital which is one of the worst hospitals, which does not have 50% bed filling, a hospital where medicines are not paid, where due to the lack of care of mayors and parishioners are brought into such a situation that everyone avoids such a hospital and even doctors flee from it. Once again, I urge the president of the HDZ to take care of his mayors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181190	Time's up. Thank you. We are now going to the 9th debate, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181191	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In our people they say “Every evil for any good ” and it is not all that bad. But here's this evil, a worldwide epidemic caused by the coronary virus has helped our prime minister explain why he solves Mr. Kujundzic's health minister and the truth is that he was not focused on the work of the ministry or was focused on the quality of health care. It is true that this will not solve problems in health care and that the new minister except that it is good to announce the introduction of an emergency helicopter service that the HSS here in the Assembly has been talking about and has made an amendment to introduce an emergency helicopter service in the Republic of Croatia, then the current majority has refused, and here we see they are coming out with this proposal. It is good to move to work, however, remains the problem of unpaid salaries and overtime for doctors, lack of doctors, waiting lists for reviews, getting medical equipment, availability of healthcare, health problems, lack of family medicine doctors. The string is a problem, and not only is this helicopter destination enough, it's one serious approach. And I want a new minister of good luck to succeed because that's what patients and citizens expect of him to do. However, a new virus has appeared on the scene especially that threatens the quality of life and the availability of all those life needs to the inhabitants of Slavonia, Baranja, and Srijem. Last week, we heard that over 500 million investments in the construction of the railway line from Novska – Nova Gradiška towards Vinkovci and Vukovar were made. For saying hello. However, here I have a letter and a request from the residents, more than 300 inhabitants of the village Gornji and Donji Crnogovci and Laza because the one who designs this new modern railway that trains will go significantly faster and be safer in this project has no overpasses, nor the underpass on the local road that connects these three settlements that mean life to these residents, which connects these settlements with the home municipality of Staro Petrovo Selo, which their lives mean to them because they live on the road and the doctor in the municipality and in the school and in the church and so on since the 13th century. More than 300 inhabitants, and this is mostly the agricultural area, there are more than 5-6 farms of young families left there, over 750 in tov, more than a million liters of milk produced, several hundred pigs, more than 100,000 beaks of poultry are produced there. And now because it is expensive to build an overpass or underpass for someone in the Croatian railways, these villages should go to the home municipality of Staro Petrovo Selo or towards Novi Gradiška or towards Slavonski Brod 20 km longer. And it's particularly problematic that it's gravitating over 100, 1,000 hectares of state agricultural land that they're processing. How will they get to these fields with their working machines? Did anyone take care of that? Or some kind of virus clouded him in his design. So the question on behalf of those 300 residents is whether it really is so, especially if they haven't received an answer in the local community, the local leader there says no matter what you're worried about it will come to life in 10 years. So many local officials from the ruling coalition believe in their own government and their own ministers and investments in the area. But one day it will come if it stays this way and the voice of those inhabitants who want to live there is not heard. And it's a shame that it's been two years for those cattle that don't have enough land to wait for the call. So the question is, what does the Ministry of Agriculture do, what do local self-government units do, why don't they discuss competitions for state agricultural land? Because it's impossible to round up your property, develop production, if you don't have a basic resource, and that's agricultural land. Or it is waiting for foreigners to acquire the right to buy state agricultural land in Croatia and sell to foreigners because the ministry has not yet put our request in the parliamentary debate to initiate the procedure, to introduce an additional 3 years of ban on selling state agricultural land to foreigners. It is obvious that this government is working in favour of foreign capital, obviously there are more viruses that have clouded their minds, not to worry about the quality of life of citizens in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and that with the right of the people of Montenegro, Laza and other settlements, the color for the quality of life seems to have to be, not because of this virus, but also because of projects like this, moving out of these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181192	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181193	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We begin with a statement of clubs and independent representatives. First in line today, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181194	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The health system is under collapse and another health minister has left, but citizens still have poor health care. We're the first in Europe for cancer mortality, people are dying, and our health system is getting worse. Croatian coronaryvirus is a cancer, it's not a virus that comes from Asia, it's a cancer in Croatia and what needs to be said clearly is that we don't talk about it enough and that the ruling eyes are closing over that fact. One minister has left, but there is a 9.4 billion kuna hospital system left, and it is clear that the system is about to collapse. And the decline of the health system from year to year is speeding up, and it's going to be getting harder and harder. Health cost estimates in Croatia are completely unrealistic, although the extension of life expectancy indicates that the health cost explosion is not ready for us in Croatia. We spend unreal, our system is in organisational chaos, our hospitals are in a chronic deficit, we watch the public system fail, we maintain an illogical cost structure in health and we wait for someone else to give us a solution, but the solution won't fall out of the sky. The Croats are among the leading in Europe for cancer mortality, the treatment costs us much more than prevention, but no one is talking about it today. Most of the people in Croatia who had cancer, cancer revealed accidental departure, the majority waited for 3 to 6 months for disease diagnosis, and the start of treatment after a month of diagnosis. The devastating fact is that in Croatia 31% of patients with malignancies were already diagnosed with metastases at the time of diagnosis. Late diagnosis when cancer has already spread to other organs is a problem that is constantly being warned because early detection brings greater safety and potential for healing. In addition to wandering through a system of people suffering from cancer, there is a different chance of survival depending on the place of residence. If you're in a big city or you're gravitating it, then you're ahead of those who live in smaller environments where oncology protection is much smaller. Prevention and care for health are something important to the administration for and promote. It should be said that the National Anticancer Plan is here somewhere, by defining the cutting of hospitals that diagnose and treat cancer, and by what result there is something that we will have very soon. It is the document that has been working for years and has been waiting longer and should change the way cancer is treated in Croatia. And what's also important is that this national programme won't come to life unless there's funding behind it. Health financing should be directly linked to the main identified health risks of the population, which is, in any case, cancer. If, after adoption of this national plan, no concrete financial resources follow, it will only remain a dead letter on paper. If we base the fight against cancer on private clinics and diagnostic devices, the national plan will turn public money into private pockets. In health care, it is very clear to separate privately and publicly. It has become normal for long waiting lists and bad system organisations to pay expensive diagnostics to privates. This will continue if we do not put the health system as a national priority. Minister Beroš, who has the largest budget in Croatian health history, has said over 30 billion, "No country in the world is rich to be based on public health, therefore most combine public and private health." It is very clear from these sentences that HDZ and Minister Beros have no intention of separating publicly from private health. The consequences of health policies are fatal, relationships of human lives. Turn around, see how many cancer patients we have. Other countries are fighting this disease by preventing and strengthening the system, and we alone have the idea of further privatizing the system. It is the government's policy, HDZ policy and the carelessness of Plenkovic and his health ministers. Privatisation of health care is not a solution, it is a problem that many Croatian citizens will be entitled to treatment and health care. So don't privatize health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181195	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181196	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is according to the Constitution of the social state but unfortunately the social state is only on paper because in reality Croatia closes its eyes against the great injustice of protected tenants, which was passed by law in this House in 2018. Namely, the Law on renting apartments, protected tenants, has been approved to increase their protected rent by 1.2 times and 120% annually, respectively. The increase in the rent account, protected by the tenants, and by the end of 2023 when all those on the 1st of September laws will have to leave their apartments, the rent will increase 600%. For example, one can see what it looks like, namely a rental that is of 1. Nine. In 2018 it was 500 kuna, today 2020 it is 1700 kuna and on today 2023 it will be 3500 kuna. I note that if we compare the average pension in 2018, which was 2344 per projection, in 2020 it will be 2654 kuna and from this it is very clear that the protected tenants, most of them retired, after the settlement of the rent, remain 300 kuna for life. What does that mean in practice? This means that a retired professor from the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, on September 1, 2023, the sea on the street and her apartment was assigned for use because she was on the faculty list as well as thousands of others. She was the only one who belonged to a confiscated apartment, and some others were lucky to have been assigned a social apartment and others could buy their apartment and she couldn't because the house sales law wouldn't allow it. The teacher didn't break into the apartment, she didn't kick anyone out, the teacher wasn't a usurper, she's not an occupier, as all these tenants call Croatia's representatives in the European Court of Justice. She's an honest scientist who's gonna be on the street on Friday, September 1, 2023. It's an injustice and that's what we want to warn you from this pay phone. The provision of the article ceases on 1 September to apply the right of a protected tenant and they are obliged to move out of the dwellings, as stated by the law that we have adopted in the Assembly. The conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on measures for the implementation of the House Rental Act of 13 July 2018 is entrusted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a programme for the implementation of the House Rental Act by 30 November 2019, while the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning is tasked with drawing up a proposal for that programme. The Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on the adoption of the programme on 27.12, but it is clear from the reasons that there is no plan and programme, no housing and no data on the needs or social status data. From all of this, it is very clear that the law proposed by the CNS, and HDZ accepted no way to implement it, and on the other hand the law is discriminatory because they will put all these protected tenants in the ass and will kick them out of their apartments because if we look at those who are protected by the renters owned by the local self-government unit, then they will stay in apartments and those in apartments, and those who are therefore not the owner of local self-government will unfortunately have to lose the status of the protected tenant and on September 1st 2023, because the government does not do what the government should do, the government closes its eyes to this problem. And once again, we would like to warn that it is something that this House should make clear, and if at all possible, it is possible for the government to make it possible for these people to stay in their apartments on September 1, 2023. Unfortunately, just once sign in to HDZ, choose a page in the internal elections and maybe your problem will be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181198	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181199	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here are a few words about.../incomprehensible/... state in Croatian agriculture, in the Croatian village. In fact, the European Commission and all its members are discussing a new budget period, a new financial package from 2021 to 2027, said that the EU's priority is the green plan, the energy neutral continent of Europe by 2050, and the real question is where Croatia is, where is the future of Croatian villages and Croatian agriculture. Under the Green Plan, the financial framework for the financing of the common agricultural policy is planned to be reduced. Most European farmers, too, were eventually protested in Berlin, within the framework of the European Green Week, where they said that the new common agricultural policy cannot be built and planned without the attitude and opinion of agricultural producers. They are not agricultural producers against the green plan, but they want to be active stakeholders, and if they have to, and they want to implement that plan, then it is also a affordable plan for them, or that they can live on it, and on the other hand, that citizens and consumers have a safe source of food. Because we see now what happens now on the world level when we have a major crisis because of the coronary when individual production suffers because there is limited access to the Chinese market and there is a real danger of food production. And surely, given that we have decided that agriculture within the economy is a strategic branch of the economy, we also need to monitor and define our local, national policies as such. So the question is, does Croatia even have a position on this issue? Of course, it is a great honor that we now chair the EU, but the problem is that we must be neutral in that part. However, while we must be neutral, we can and must have our own position, are we to reduce the financial framework for the financing of agriculture or not? We at HSS believe that we must ask that Croatian farmers receive the same level or even higher level of funding because our agriculture is lagging behind competition from the EU and I find it odd that Croatia did not give its position in these talks, and the former minister promised that Croatian farmers would not be reduced by direct payments and the overall package for rural development measures. Obviously he will, obviously someone has lied or Croatia has no attitude. In this context, it is important and the most important thing is land policy because there is no production without resources, no agricultural land. We still haven't received a parliamentary debate request from HSS supported by 20 colleagues from other parties where we asked to discuss here in the Croatian Parliament on the application for moratorium for the sale of the country to foreigners for another three years. Supposedly, it was sent to the ministry in procedure, but we didn't get it here for discussion, and I call on the President of the Croatian Parliament to put it in the process as soon as possible because the Croatian Parliament has to be manifested, and I think it is the interest of all our farmers that the country cannot be sold to foreigners for at least 3 years, if not longer. There is also a big debate now over the need to amend the Law on Agricultural Land. There are also major objections from family farms, they have also been objecting to the industry of particularly the processing industry and large food producers in Croatia. They're not happy with each other with the law, and it could be said that the law is good if they're not satisfied with either the left or the right to say so. But it's not like that. It's just that the law doesn't apply. It took more than two years to pass the law. I warned that he was late with sublegal acts, 19 regulations were to be passed, there was a delay in this, and simple availability programmes that municipalities and cities referred to consent in the Ministry of Agriculture are not yet all approved. Or, more specifically, around 190 municipalities and cities have not received agreement from the agriculture ministry. And why didn't they get it? It is now the chief's fault, so it is not the mayors and mayors who blame it, but rather the Ministry of Agriculture which did not make clear rules, which did not define the limits of the public water goods, which did not define which particles are within the scope of the Croatian forests. And who suffers? The Croatian village and Croatian agriculture suffer. If the village dies, Croatia will die too, let us not allow Croatia to remain our rights, let us not be left without food production, the warning is now a coronary virus, I hope we do not lose food, and everything goes to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181200	Thank you. We've exhausted today's agenda, so we'll finish today's session. We will continue again on Wednesday 19 February at 9:30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal of the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2021, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. Number 834. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 15.55 hours. The next club of MPs will be that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of which the respected representative Miranda Mrsic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181202	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. After those morning doses of bickering who is a Serb, who is a Croat, after hurting the Rules of Procedure and all that we have heard this morning, what is common in this point of the agenda, I would have warned of one thing, I only expected all the MPs today to talk about it, and that is an epidemic of the coronary virus in Croatia and that is what should all be concerned in Croatia at this moment because, to remind you, we do not have a vaccine, there are no antiviral medicines and the only measures we can take are measures to prevent and stop the spread of the epidemic. In fact, there are no reasons for panic, we see that in the paper that masks are being bought, disinfections, that empty shelves and I expected that here we as assembly representatives would invite citizens to listen to what people who know a lot about it say, not to spread panic because we are a country that is a tourist country, which depends on the tourist season and I don't think spreading panic makes sense. And one message from me as a doctor is that the most important thing is to follow your hands and that's the best measure of prevention of disease when we talk about any viral disease. And here as a medic and a doctor I want to repeat one simple rule, which is that hands should be monitored frequently, that they should be monitored for at least 20 to 30 seconds, thoroughly with soap and water because it is the best prevention and protection and prevention and protection against infection with viruses because the virus enters the body through the mouth, eyes and nose, and therefore it is most important to follow hands. And that's this message I want to send from this pay phone today, which is to wash our hands as many times a day as we can. Because it has been shown in studies, a major research by the Center for Disease Prevention says that the frequency of the epidemic or the spread of the epidemic can be reduced by 16 to 21% if the virus is washed by our hands, on the handles, on the tables, and that is one effective measure, and for this coronary virus even say that somewhere in 69% of the cases, we can prevent the spread of the epidemic. Using facial masks, writing panic status on social networks, my message wash your hands, and for starters that will be enough. But this coronary infection has shown another problem in Croatia, which is the problem of the Immunological Institute. Because Croatia has obviously raised its hands from the Immunological Institute and the question now that we see about the coronary infection with the virus that it is not a matter that enters the sphere of health care but rather a sphere of national security. Since he began to serve the private interest, Immunological development has stagnated what eventually led to a complete end to production, and the government does not show the will to address the situation as soon as possible to the benefit of the Croatian population. Today, when new challenges arise like this coronary infection with the virus, but we are likely to see some new challenges in the future, the return of the Immunological Institute to full operational strength is something that is more important to Croatia than ever. And what I regret is that because we destroyed the Immunological Institute Croatia will miss the opportunity to side by side of countries that are working on developing an effective coronary vaccine virus, and if we had that institution then we would be together with countries that are currently working intensively on it. This is the moment when the government has to stop with this irresponsible policy and maybe this is the moment when the government should run and put the Immunological Institute on its feet. Once again faced with the possible pandemic of the virus, it shows how important it is to have a public health system, however many difficulties we have knowledge of how to respond to the challenges we just have to stop the destruction of public health, and the immune system is part of that public system. Why wait for others to develop the vaccine if we have an immunological institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181204	Mr Zeljko Lenart will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181205	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to talk about some of the problems that have arisen about this story about the coronary virus and this overemphasis of panic and paranoia that is spreading to the Republic of Croatia. It's unusual for the Prime Minister to go to the press and say we have a situation and he's talking about two people who already have no temperature today, and it's getting the impression that this situation of creating a panic over the coronary virus, it's only responding to the HDZ that in this way is covering up its internal problems that are happening around their choices, but they're not focusing on me here, they'd be talking about car carriers from freight transport and passenger transport that have sent me a series of solutions they've received since they've been in Italy every day and they've been driving loads for Italy, they've got months contracts, they've got obligations to their partners from Italy and what's happening now, that they've been waiting 20 hours to enter the Republic of Croatia, the column has been a long 13km which gives them a lot of problems because they have limited driving and they can're simply not work that way. What's their problem is that they all got solutions at the border that they had to report to their on-call epidemiologist for a medical examination and for a 14-day surveillance period. Do you know what 14 days of not driving for one car carrier that has one or two trucks where he and his family drive and serve and each month they have to pay at least 10 000 kn of giving the Republic of Croatia, 14 days because they are not infected, they have not been diagnosed with a single symptom, they have to stop, suffer damage and suffer the penalty that they will have because they do not respect contracts with their partners in Italy. Since our prominent experts who work unfortunately abroad are Đikic and Rudan, who themselves said that this is an excessive panic that is spreading to the Republic of Croatia, that talking about the Coronal of the Virus is not as dangerous as we blow it up, I also think that I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the Resort ministries can consider these measures that command the carriers, try to sit with their union and talk to them and see how control can be carried out with respect to the Coronus virus and that these people can still function and can carry out the obligations they have and that they can normally operate their companies that own trucks and are engaged in such transport. People are desperate, and so their transport prices are minimal and barely operational with those prices of transport that they achieve, and if in this way we will treat them as any normal passenger and put them under surveillance for 14 days, probably many of them will have to close their companies, they will have to sell their trucks to meet their obligations and normal, they will also suffer the budget of the Republic of Croatia for that. Lost contracts that are lost in this way by disrespect are very difficult to restore, and it is very difficult for these partners to get back into some kind of correct relationship. Therefore, once again appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, consider, find measures that can satisfy and protect from the Crown but which can also help carriers operate in public transport, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181206	We are now going to a third debate, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic on behalf of the HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181207	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs, in today's speech, I would like to point to the harmfulness of the government's current policy measures in the area of wage policy and to point out how unthinkable and this harmful policy is reflected in the poor social situation of our citizens. In recent times, we have been able to listen to the Prime Minister and Minister Maric's praises about the benefits of 4 rounds of tax reform, about how the state will relieve citizens, about how they will raise salaries, but obviously did not see it affecting the social security of citizens in the long term and what it will mean in the future for their pensions, for their position when they retire. I have already talked about the harmfulness of wage policy in this assembly on several occasions and have pointed to the consequences that such harmful measures of tax reform will affect our citizens when it comes to social security because there are no mechanisms for compensating and preventing these bad effects on the future of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the payment of the non-taxable prizes has become a monster in Croatia, anything can, anything that can be paid as an untaxable payment. Many workers who had a warm meal in gross wages, which resulted in their higher sickness benefits, and then eventually for their pensions, but with tax reform, Minister Maric pulled it out of gross wages and replaced it with an untaxed diet. The question arises how much tax reform has affected employers of those who do not have such an institute for their workers to introduce it, and how many workers have lost because of their gross salary cuts? Unfortunately, however, harmful tax policy does not have a bad impact on workers and future pensioners, as I have warned, but also on current pensioners. According to the current methodology of the State Statistics Institute, average gross and net wages do not include non-taxable fees introduced by Minister Maric's reform and broadly introduced in Croatia. For this reason, the Government realized that in this pre-election time it would be bad because de facto as the State Statistics Institute had calculated the salary to show that, instead of paying, the salary was growing, so it had changed, the government had replaced the Director of DZS because he obviously did not listen and did not want to do the creative statistics that we see with the current director in the DZS, so it was decided that as a salary in Croatia, we would include these non-taxable payments, only with the aim of making the HDZ picture bigger, but we did not include it in what is important, therefore, not included in the calculation of the pension, or in the calculation of the pension there is no. However, if the government so strongly advocates such a salary policy, then it would be fair for that policy to also be paid to reflect on the pension system in such a way that the current formula for harmonising pensions is changed and that these non-taxables are included in that formula. So, not only does the government look nice in front of the citizens, but let them choose to do it for the current pensioners, so there would be no increase of 0.7% of the pensions announced by the government. Otherwise, our pensioners won't see the benefits of increasing, in quotes, the salaries of our workers. Likewise, the state should show care for its pensioners because, as announced, our Cro tourist card will have the right workers in working relationships, craftsmen, workers of free professions and farmers on that card. I plead that the government in that Cro card includes pensioners in a way that these pensioners use that Cro card for health tourism. So while the prime minister deals with stimulating incentives for our emigrants Insulting their dignity, it's time to make [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] something for the pensioners. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181208	All right, we're moving forward, so we're taking a stand on behalf of the MPs' club and the independent MPs' club, first Mr. Zeljko Lenart in front of HSS and Democrats, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181209	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The topic I have to talk about again in this Visko Dom is problems in Sisak-Moslavina County, the way Ivo Žinić and Mayor Romano Rosavec, the attitude towards the county council members in the county assembly. Unfortunately, the county council members have been demoted, belittled to... The county assembly is even offended and threatened by the mayors Ivo Žinic and Roman Rosavec. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is worrying about in Sisak-Moslavina County, which is precisely what the assembly noticed, was that at the time when it was asked the Commissioner of the Pu Sisak-Moslavina County, Mr Luki Pesutu, by opposition councillors, the mayor and the mayor banned him from answering these questions. So now I'm interested in the answer of Mr. Bozinovic, who should be head of the Pu Sisak-Moslavina County, is he really the head or is he the mayor? Given the things that are happening in Sisak-Moslavina County, various malversions, suspicions and many things that are not being processed, we have started to think about it and there is more evidence that the work of the PU in Sisak-Moslavina County is being controlled by the mayor Žinic. Since here, and mentioning the mayor made two car accidents in less than a year in which he took advantage, where he broke up the county car, there he could have suffered serious injuries to those with whom he had a car accident. Addressing the mayor's office, as well as the portals that wrote about it, it is said that Mayor Zinic paid the fine on the spot and is then listed between 3 and 7000 kuna, which raises doubts whether he even paid for it, and therefore there are no other sanctions for the mayor. I wonder if Mayor Zinic is the same in front of the law as the rest of us, he's a rectivist, I ask the police administration how until now he hasn't lost his driver's license since he repeats the crimes he's committed? Sisak-Moslavina County is one of the poorest counties, one of the two counties in which there are more pensioners than those who are employed, a county from which 18% of young people between 16 and 30 have left, a county that ie. The county administration that planned a budget of 900 million kuna and then realized it with 660 million kuna, over 30% failed in their plans, although they had 40% higher taxes in Sisak-Moslavina County. Mayor Žinic is also known for threatening journalist Klancir through the police, which I am bringing back to this story about the editing and management of police administration, and I do not know how long it will take place and when Prime Minister Plenkovic, who is the president of HDZ and Ivo Žinic, is a member of HDZ and the chairman of the HDZ County Committee, until he tolerates the behavior of these two people who are trying to usurp power in Sisak-Moslavina County where they act as Pharaohs, threaten the county council, do not give them phonograms to listen to what they said and to give it to the public. Such a county is an example of why young people leave, such a county is an example for which the county should be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181210	The next club of MPs is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181211	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. With regard to the current situation for the threat of both Croatia and the Croatian population of coronaryvirus, we should congratulate the National Civil Protection Staff, all public health professionals, all sanitary engineers, all police officers and customs officers, who here, daily do a good job and it is good that we do not still have a large number of infected in the Republic of Croatia and that mainly that the virus is not in free circulation but is mainly from imports, through, from people who have returned from the European countries to Croatia and it is to welcome. To welcome the measures that the government has launched in terms of preventing the spread of the virus population through the closure of schools and colleges, but of course we also need to say a few words about the problem in the economy. In fact, at least they order this from the field, most of our craftsmen, entrepreneurs, and resolution chambers, that the Croatian government is late with measures and with a decision to help the Croatian economy, the EU has envisioned more than 25 billion euros. Germany has come out with concrete measures with 12.5 billion euros, Slovenia has taken concrete measures, Italy, we do not yet have, here, we only have indications that the situation is being monitored and that in the coming weeks the government will come up with concrete proposals. The tourism minister has already announced that there are major damages to tourism, that booking is in decline, so here is just an example of the town of Hvar, that by 1.6, more than 50% of reservations have been cancelled. So the damages are certainly very high in tourism. The damages are high among companies dealing with the transport of goods, with companies providing services, and craftsmen who are exporters, especially family, companies, small companies are in big trouble that even part of them plans to close production and lay off workers. So it takes urgent and concrete measures both for tourism and for the transport part and for services for craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and what we are interested in, where is the Minister of Agriculture? They've all called in a certain way, she's silent. Is there no harm in agriculture? How is it planned to help agricultural producers that, surely, certain disturbances will occur in terms of the possibility of buying seed, fruit material, since before us is the seed season, the seed season. Whether problems will arise in the placement of products currently present on the Croatian market and again we warn the part that Croatia must not be dependent on the import of food. If agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy, if the safety of our citizens is important, then it is important in terms of nutrition and the question is here, in which way we can guarantee our population food safety if we do not have enough food, food production, neither in milk nor in meat, nor in vegetables, nor in fruit. And yes, there is no need to spread panic, but concrete measures should be taken. One of them is also a stock reserve. Activating, whether or not there will be needs, but what is crucial is the question that has often been in history, that these border reserves are on paper, and in practice there are no goods in the warehouses. Remember how the pigeons ate the wheat in Djakov. Do we have those wheat in stock and whether imports will continue to be needed, and it is a shame to import more than 60 thousand tonnes of frozen pastry into Croatia for the bakery industry. What about domestic production and whether anyone cares about food production in Croatia, and we see that the Minister of Agriculture is silent. It is also important to highlight the problems of the woodworking industry which employs over 50,000 people and which is mainly export-oriented. It was done, the state cluster made a survey of 145 of its stakeholders, 60% of them said they had a cut in orders. They are afraid that this trend will continue, and it is certain that they are now becoming a major problem of liquidity, retaining existing employment and general planning of further production, some have already announced further layoffs of workers, and already fewer companies are planning, if this takes both the closure of production and the dismissal of all workers. It is urgent that the government, the Resort Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance react as we must safeguard jobs and ensure the quality of life of our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181212	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181213	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here on behalf of the HSS Club, we would like to congratulate once again and thank all those who work for us today, for the safety of all our citizens, means to all public health workers, all the workers in medical institutions, nurses, doctors, staff, of course both police officers and customs officers and all those who work. And I would also like to congratulate, of course, all our citizens who are responsible for acting and following the instructions of the National Civil Protection Staff as well as the county headquarters, and it can be said that our citizens are, in most cases, well-accompanied and properly treating the proposed measures and they understand the seriousness of the situation. And precisely because of these workers I congratulated, there is one problem that needs to be pointed out now and one problem that arises, which is that a good part of these employees works overtime, works day and night, and here we ask that the Government also takes care of these measures because there are often no replacements, they have to stay working longer, they often have to work overtime and weekends and expect them to be adequate and paid. It is even past work contracts, past the Labour Act and other regulations, but in this situation it needs to find models to reward these people and pay them for that work. Of course, it should be said to repeat what I said yesterday, that these measures are both in a certain way and delayed, especially for those 500 workers who have already been fired, and here today we get a lot of messages and e-mails that both hosts and other tourism workers are closing their facilities, firing workers, and that the pressure on the Employment and Pressure Office is also on accounting services. And here we received an email from the Intellectual Services Ceha, which notes that most craftsmen who are self-employed or have several employees in the activities of bookkeeping, tourism, adventure tourism, photography services and shooting, promotions and marketing, babysitting, playrooms and entertainment programs and other evens. They are also without a job at this time and are not seen in these measures and they ask that the Republic of Croatia and the Government through these measures take account of and on these independent craftsmen, and I would add there about OPG holders who are self-employed at the OPG, to provide for them this minimum wage and to be free of taxes and contributions by example to the German Government. It's not to be delayed because they can't do it. It's to get rid of the payments. It is also proposed to postpone the deadlines for the submission of annual financial reports because it is now a great pressure on bookkeeping services to check out and report workers, for the final final financial reports a large part of their employees cannot come to work because they have no children to leave because kindergartens do not work, schools do not work, do not leave children to whom they are left and are simply in big problems and the proposal is to postpone the deadlines for the submission of annual financial reports and thus help both the economy and this company. And of course, when it comes to agriculture and food production, I guess it's finally clear to all of us that without producing food for self-sufficiency in the production of food, we can't have security in the country and we can't even have a perspective that we have a healthy population. And it is certain that in the context of this it is necessary to organise the spring seed and that it is good that others have worked on agricultural pharmacies, however, it has also been forgotten about mechanic workshops for repairing agricultural machinery and trade in spare parts because spring crops cannot be seeded without spare parts. The belt cracks, the filter needs to be changed, somewhere it has to be bought, so I suggest that it is built into measures and certainly when it comes to agricultural land, that every hectare should be sown, that it is now an opportunity for the stock reserves to contract production for the needs of the population of the Republic of Croatia, and not that it happens to us to run out of supplies, to run out of food, and that we do not have enough in wheat, corn, soy, sugar, and milk that I do not speak, so it is a big problem in pig farming, beef and certainly that the government must set out more concrete measures that it is not only enough to postpone the payment of the leases and concessions but that for this year all agricultural producers should be free of the rent and concessions and release of all taxes and duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181214	Thank you very much. Now we're going to take a break as we have announced because we announced that at 12:00 there will be a vote on all the laws discussed so far and then the sequel is at 12:00. It's 11:21 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181215	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181216	Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to express my admiration to my fellow health colleagues who are fiercely fighting the coronaryvirus and what Agent Pernar said today in the face of all those workers, all those healthcare professionals, doctors, nurses, who are now on the first battlefield of the battle against the coronaryvirus. At this time when various self - called prophets appear, Agent Pernar is one of them, one of which we have here and I think it's clear to say from this pay phone. Because wanting to solve his own vanity, he sends messages that can seduce the citizens. There's no scientific evidence that vitamin C treats coronaryvirus. That's what colleagues from China say who have the highest tradition of folk medicine. So don't listen to the charlatans who, in this danger now in front of us, only want to survive politically. And that's the message I want to send from this pay phone. Vitamin C does not treat the coronary virus. Unfortunately, my colleagues as hematologist can't help, but perhaps some of the other colleagues in this assembly can. What we see now is that we're very close to catching this outbreak by the neck and starting to break it. However, what I would like to appeal to the government is that the measures they are now bringing to the rescue of the economy must be simple, understandable and easy to implement. It is therefore necessary to reduce this bureaucratic form to a minimum, for example, a debt of 200 kuna, is a disqualification element for the payment of aid or a postponement of a tax liability and it does not make any sense in practice. I ask Minister Maric to take care of it. There is also a big problem with measures to preserve jobs related to micro-enterprises because you have both workers and employers in micro-enterprises in the same person. We've closed down green markets and fish shops, which will be with small farmers who don't have secure entry into the trade chains. In order to be successful, we must be creative, and above all brave at these moments and what the Government must know that, besides cutting on the spending side of the budget, it must pump up the funds in consumption. The creation of an atmosphere of economic uncertainty will lead to a huge decline in personal consumption of citizens, and in this we will witness very quickly. Companies that currently have completed production capacity or delivered goods in a month will have a triple problem, a problem with new deals, a problem with the payment of claims and a major drop in margins. We're going to have a problem that's going to spread chain to different parts of the economy that are working at the moment. This is an ideal time to develop Internet trade with goods and services, invest in education, marketing campaigns, provide vouchers for advertising services and products of companies and crafts that can do their business in large numbers via telephone and internet. Any state aid to employers is welcome, but what needs to be taken care of is that the minimumer that is now current is not the best measure that will lead to the preservation of jobs. Minister Aladrovic, instead of through active employment policy measures, should have gone through the Employment Support Act because these support would be based on workers' salaries. The criteria for the implementation of the subsidy must apply to all employers instead of employers in certain activities. Many of the shortages of workers who will follow due to the abolition of many passenger transport lines will have even greater problems in production and will not be able to get to work neatly, leading to further problems in production. The right to a subsidy should be given to all those who sent workers on hold, not those who sent workers to the use of annual holidays. Therefore, I call on Minister Aladrovic to redefine these measures, and do not listen to false prophets like this to the citizens. /incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181217	We're going to the last debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181218	Thank you, President HS, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS and Democrats Club, I would like to thank once again everyone who works at the National Civil Protection Staff, all hospital workers, in the public health system and should say that part of the measures proposed by the Government and on which we will vote tomorrow is good and that it is assessed by economies solid, not to say any other word is there still things that entrepreneurs are not satisfied with and are asking for further talks and improvement of these measures, and some of these measures, here we heard today and from opposition representatives what they should be referring to. We at HSS have said that the measures are late and are not concrete enough and that we are right to say this here are almost 20,000 people who are newly registered as unemployed on HZZ, meaning they are late with the measures, and representatives of the Association of wood growers of the Republic of Croatia who, most of them, were already in the end of January and in early February warned about this, on February 6th they also sent a letter to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Economy to react urgently because the market relations with their customers have been violated, that orders will cancel and that there will be cancellations and that there will be no power to withstand this pressure and here is a result of that, among these 20,000 new unemployed, is also part of the wood industry although here with these new measures will try to preserve every job in the Republic of Croatia, which we welcome, and it is certainly not good that these 20,000 who remainunemployed , so here we call on the government to figure out that 80 000 for the measures and forthem. And at this point, we're all talking about the need to produce food, about agriculture, and I would say that, I've said it more than once, I'm going to say it's a matter of national security. Because if we're not self-sufficient in food production, then we can't even be sovereign in our own space, then we can't guarantee the quality of life and the nutrition of our own population. And why I point out this is the warning that we have repeatedly pointed out that our deficit in agriculture is huge, over a billion and 200 million euros is a deficit, we import more than we export. And the other day, and the news that scared me, Germany stopped the export of medical equipment and protective equipment to the Republic of Croatia because they estimated it needed their health care system. What happens tomorrow when Italy, Spain, France, with agricultural products? We're gonna run out of food. And that's why it's good to talk about food production in the Republic of Croatia, so it's good to make sure that every hectare shines at this point in the Republic of Croatia. And I would remind myself of the non-implementation of the Agricultural Land Act, there are no tenders, lease and concession contracts stand out and must be found and modeled how to shine each hectare to extend the validity of these contracts until further notice, as well as to free farmers from the payment of leases and concessions in 2020. It's nice to hear here that everyone agrees that the markets are a window into the world for our little OPGs and yes, they should be opened. No, we didn't have to lock them up for us from HSS, we could have designed models like we did with the chain of commerce to approach one by one, to hold the gap, and we're out in the open, certainly our O.P.G.s and manufacturers wouldn't get hurt. And I want to publicly congratulate the city of Vinkovci here who has partly opened a market with closed those adventure homes that he has given to use our OPGs and thus made it possible to directly communicate our small manufacturers with its customers because not all the frames provide Internet sales and organise delivery. Well, speaking of which, so we need to open up markets urgently and ensure of course that there is no infection, that there is a safe distance, but what we need to look for, and this is what our agricultural producers are looking for, part of them organized to sell their products through mail. Why should Croatian mail not give up postage on these food packages that our manufacturers send to their customers? Here, it is one of the proposals where these measures could be corrected and it would certainly help our small OPGs, not to close post offices like they did in Baranja, so here in Brod-Posavina County is the closed area office in Slavonski Kobaš, in Zapolje, it is not the way to preserve agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181219	This led us to the end of free debates. Debate No. 7, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181221	Dear Mr. President, today my word goes to all those workers who are on hold today, who have problems getting paid by the state to deliver to employers because the state is not sure how it will control the payment of support to employers for subsidising part of the salary. Only in March will the support be used by around 96,000 employers for 560,000 workers, the state will land an additional 2.4.24 billion kuna for employers on their jury accounts in March 2.27 billion kuna, somewhere in April or May. But whether all workers will receive a grant from the state is a big question. As is the question of what will happen to those workers whose salaries are lower than minimum wage because the government has forgotten that there is a clause in the minimum wage law that collective bargaining can contract a minimum wage that is 5% lower than the one prescribed by the state. Employers all the time argue that this is aid to them, not to workers, which shows that the way the government went was completely wrong because workers needed to be paid those funds to their current accounts. There are many ways for employers to throw out this good, good government method and a good instrument that the government has tried to preserve jobs, so let's say some entrepreneurs are taking funds from the state for workers they've already fired. Some entrepreneurs pay only the salary they receive from the state, although they are able to pay full wages. Some entrepreneurs of the support paid by the state to share between themselves and workers, some entrepreneurs taking funds from the state and for long-term workers, it is because the state did not control how much it pays but simply disbursed funds to the jury accounts of employers without a contract and what is now seen in the HZZ is a general chaos that simply does not know who the funds are paid to, and on the other hand, since this has led to problems in the payoffs, there are still employers who applied in March for this support, and from the HZZ they have not received any response, whether they will receive support or not. Some entrepreneurs are pressuring workers to sign an addendum to a labour contract that will contract wages at the height of the state because they will be reduced by hours, although they will work full-time. And some workers are also doing what, some entrepreneurs are doing what they've been doing and so far, scaring workers that they can't quit because they're going to have to give the state back the amount of support. Labour and pension system Minister Aladrovic told the unions that he expects them to have a partner relationship and ask them to provide concrete information on malfeasances and irregularities if they have them. Instead of the government controlling how our money is spent, because these are the money of all of us who are paying in the budget, Minister Aladrovic is asking trade unions to control what is happening in companies. Another idea that has now come to light is that the state's inspectorate is going to control the fund's payments to workers. However, it has been forgotten that the state inspectorate has no jurisdiction over these payments because it is a state support and the inspectorate has no ability to control it, it should be controlled by the HZZ, and they have neither the capacity nor the people who could control such a large number of payments and the support that go, which goes to the workers. Obviously, it was the best way to transfer funds to the jury accounts of workers because that way nobody should be controlled because they know who, who they're going to. The current statement lastly that a list of employers receiving support will be published is a good move, however, it will not solve the problem because it is a question of who will check employers and who will find out whether the support has been used correctly. It's back to the courage of the workers, and we know that the workers in that part are in a subordinate position, and this is just saying that this idea that was good at the end will be born into bad. The government's actions. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181222	Here you go, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181223	Thank you, Vice President. Here, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of HSS and Democrats first and foremost, one big round of applause for all public health, hospitals, police and all those who are on the frontline of Covid-19 disease, but here I want to ask you to give a big round of applause to both our peasants and our farmers who are currently on the fields that are here, the most demanding work this year is in front of them, and that is the spring seed. And I think they deserve one big round of applause because we all agree that without food production, we can't guarantee the nutrition of our own population then not even provide health for all the residents of our beautiful. And that is why one round of applause for them, and in particular a round of applause for agriculture, we see that we are more concerned about agriculture than our Government and our minister because these days, Commissioner of the European Commission for Agriculture Mr Wojciechowski invited all agriculture ministers to be more active in protecting and helping their agricultural producers and offered them new EUR 6 billion to support rural development that can go up to EUR 17 billion for the part that has not yet been withdrawn. They will provide them with these funds to support rural development and ask our ministers and also our minister to program new measures and hurry with the application to existing measures because there are funds. So my question to the HSS is whether it does anything to our government and our minister to withdraw these funds and to allow farmers to survive this crisis and to sow their fields and produce food for all of us. Where are we? Are we doing anything? Recently, about half an hour ago, Minister Maric said that family farms have the opportunity to also use measures to report to banks for liquid assets and bridge their difficulties and report them a little, so he invites them. Well, that's exactly what we said from HSS, that the OPG can hardly get funds in the bank because it's mostly too complicated or difficult for banks to accept as business partners and we suggested that it go with direct support to the village and agriculture because it's at least through these measures the government has received agriculture. The minister allocated some 52 million kuna to support the agricultural plus 2.5 million for the intervention ransom. So we ask how to help the producers of flowers that are in big problems, who had no one to sell their products, which is with wine producers who did not sell before Easter almost one butte of wine and how it will help to shine every hectare of agricultural areas in Croatia. And here's an extra these days both yesterday and yesterday and 14 days ago, one elemental accident, the cold probably took most of this year's fruit to our fruit farmers. We know that the funds for the elemental disasters are very little in the planned state budget, so the question is whether or not farmers will be able to help at all, so here are the fruit farmers in the big problem. Not to say that it is late with those announced 20 storage facilities throughout the Republic of Croatia, and this was necessary to store our products of agricultural producers, and here again on behalf of the HSS, if it were crazy for us to close markets and directly sell our family agricultural holdings on markets, then here our suggestions were accepted and markets opened, but we now see that stricter measures have been put in place to operate and sell agricultural products on markets than in trade chains. Obviously, this government and the minister are not about the agricultural production of food and our agricultural producers, but here are the imports and import lobbys. Yesterday, I have said to Minister Beroš that it is a shame for Croatia that we do not have our own production of protection masks and equipment for the protection of healthcare professionals and that it can and must be organised with domestic crafts, entrepreneurs and owners who have reported themselves and that this production can also be provided and developed in the Republic of Croatia. It is crucial, therefore, to preserve jobs, to buy our home, to buy Croatian, to enable our agricultural producers to shine, to produce not now 3 or 6 months further, 3 to 5 years we must design models of financing agricultural production and ensure sufficient food for all the population in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181224	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181225	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Miranda Mrsic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181226	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. At the time of the crown of the crisis, its health arm slowly gives way to the economic consequences of this crisis, we are increasingly wondering what our planet's economic picture will look like in the next few years, coffees will be consequences for jobs, for the reception of workers, how we will behave in everyday life. During such discussions, the main topic in Croatia became the closure of 30 restaurants and cafe bars. Out of the 100s, how they adapted to the Ministry of Tourism's instructions and launched a job in preparing and issuing food adapted to such conditions. Such insensitivity and haughtiness, the real orgy of the inspectors that we could follow at the closing of the restaurant and the reasoning from the mouth of the chief state inspector is unrecorded, the unmarked insult of every man in our country. The High Table Inspector showed his face, his party's face and his inspectorate. In this debate, I'm not going to look too far at his character and work from the far '80s because it doesn't make sense, I'm not going to spend too much on the rating of the person who was the first chief inspector to tell the current inspector that she wouldn't even let him be his driver. This is the party's problem, the HDZ problem they have set up by Andrija Mikulic as chief inspector. In recent days, the Republic of Croatia has been buzzing about the closures of restaurants for bizarre reasons at the time of the economic crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronaryvirus. And just the case in Zagreb with a high table on the public surface deserved a bigger and more significant, more significant public view. The funny words of the chief state inspector are that their goal is not to go repressively towards entrepreneurs, but respect for the law and protection of health are basic and primary tasks, with Mikulic saying that this high table has put anyone's health at risk. For 3 days, Mikulic has been thinking and thinking about how to justify the conduct of the inspection, and he cannot find an excuse for the inspector's actions. I warned from this pay phone that there would be problems in the functioning of a large and massive repressive apparatus like a state apparatus, like a state apparatus because it's too big a bulky apparatus to be efficient. Then HDZ assured us that inspections would work better, that they would be at the service of entrepreneurs to correct mistakes. We assured them that they were on the wrong path because with the setting of this system they would lead to even greater problems in the work of inspections. At this point, we don't know who's right, he gave the state inspectorate right, or he's right, the tourism ministry. The state inspectorate was not founded to work better than to have one person, Andrija Mikulić, head of the inspectorate. The chief state inspector found himself at the scene of the highest political power just because he's in HDZ. The HDZ leaders again sent the citizens a very clear message that they do not want to oppose corruption and nepotism. The new inspection system has not solved the problems encountered by the state inspectorate. However, the coronary epidemic has shown that these, these problems are very, very big. Namely, yesterday the restaurants were reopened, and they were opened because Plenkovic realized the growing problem ordered Mikulic to handle how you know and can handle it. And what changed in three days? Nothing but a direct order from the prime minister to the state inspector. If the closure was by law, the prime minister's order is a direct violation of the law, and if it wasn't by law then there should be sanctions in the state inspectorate and there should be a change. Andrija Mikulić is just another one in a row of typical HDZ personnel, from the affair of artisans, then the problem with enrolling real estate into the property card to questioning the media about the employment of his wife in HZ Pručni konstružni žbe and the influence of Andrija Mikulić in the student centre. But all this is not a problem for Prime Minister Plenkovic when he appointed him as chief state inspector. I warned from this pay phone that in the countries of liberal democracy, it is not common for a repressive machine to be a person with a party card and so high in the political hierarchy. The latest affairs of the Chief State Inspector raise the question of what we have always asked of this speaker to answer his competences for the Chief State Inspector and to ask if he can manage such a large system. It's time to resign and leave the handling of a non-partisan and competent person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181227	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181228	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181229	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues. On the request of the Party of Democrats on Mikulić's usurpation of the Student Centre in Zagreb, one who should not have answered, but no voice, or messages from those who should have answered those questions, which is Andrija Mikulić and Blaženka Divjak. In response, the rehabilitation manager of the Student Centre Mirko Bosnjak, the man who placed Andrija Mikulić in the post with the help of Milijan Brkić. However, reactions came from many sides, especially those coming from students who in turn thanked the opening of this topic of usurpation of the student centre by the HDZ branch of Pestnica. And this way I thank all the students for their appearance and for, but also for new contributions to life under the crown and walking affair. From these numerous new contributions to the character and part of Andrija Mikulić, a particularly interesting topic was opened that was common in almost half of the students' reports. Forced, chaotic and disorganized emigration of students or their personal belongings, books and techniques from the Student Home "The Flower Village". Namely, what's this about? When the earthquake rocked Zagreb a month ago, Mikulić and his students from the student centre offered more quickly to Prime Minister Plenkovic that he would solve the problem of accommodation of the disabled Zagreb in a way that they would settle in the student centre. And at first glance, it seemed humane and very correct. The question arises, however, why were students being moved instead of opening doors to empty hotels in Zagreb that will be empty for a long time or where all of them are very empty apartments owned by the City of Zagreb where four family members could move in, not small, students' rooms. Now that they give in to measures that limit the movement in the country, the students begin to return to their dorm rooms, and that's where the problems arise. The students have nowhere else to go, and they don't know where their stuff is. Why is all this happening at the student centre adopted by Andrija Mikulić and the HDZ branch of Pestenica? For a very simple reason. Politically appointed incompetent and similar who do not respond to their Minister and Minister Divjak but to political mentor Andrija Mikulić, and when you have mentors such as Andrija Mikulić, then it is clear, the interest is first but not the interest of students but of selected teams from the Pestice, Mikulić and his godfather family party gates. And there's still one big question left. What's the student choir doing? Did they buy sinacurams, small gifts, or promises of a better future? He didn't hear them, or see them here from this pay phone, and I call for them to come forward and say their opinions, say their opinions about this affair that's been going on for a long time at the student center. And when you won't, I'll ask the following questions to Andrija Mikulic. How did you hire a student centre member of the HDZ Pescenica, who is now another man of the institution, as assistant for the work of students, that man in life never had any contact with the students of the University of Zagreb? How did you hire a HDZ member who was the holder of the election list on the Local Committee of Preputjevec? Did you order the employment of a person who was high on the HDZ election list in the Vukomerec elections? What was your role in hiring a person without working experience in a place that requires internal rules? Who and how did he hire your daughter-in-law at the University of Zagreb? What kind of shop was it with one of the University of Zagreb's proctors? Is it possible that in return you gave the student center a warrant to hire some relative of the vice president mentioned? Who is and how did he hire your father-in-law's son? I also ask Minister Divjak's question given that you received all this information about employment at the Student Centre in letters from employees and students, why did you do nothing? How is it possible that the business of the Student Centre is how to boast the sanity manager Mirko Bošnjak for 24 years in plus with historical results, and you are unable to complete the recovery. Are you watching Mikulic's back and hiring or is it something bigger? This step of mine today was not that the Ministry of Science and Inspectorate protected the legality of work and prevented party employment and obvious nepotism. And for the end of messages to Prime Minister Plenkovic, the HDZ president, who is more interested in the party than the interests and functions of the state. Do you need more input on the character and work of Andrija Mikulić for the replacement of the chief inspector the selection of a new, professional and non-partisan chief state inspector. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181230	It is now up to counterpart Miranda Mrsic on behalf of the HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181231	Dear colleagues. The elections are coming, so here we were witnessing that unnamed sources from HDZ released a story and pictures from boar hunting in which one of the main shooters was Chief State Inspector Andrija Mikulić. Two weeks ago, I spoke from this pay phone about the inadmissible behaviour of the inspectorate at the head of Andrija Mikulic. I remind you, I said and I repeat, the high-level inspector was closing restaurants, and because the tables were placed on the public surface, which he only did because he's doing a job that he can't do. And after pressure from the public, especially entrepreneurs, the HDZ president ordered his party counterpart to urgently withdraw an inappropriate decision on the closure of the restaurant when people are fighting for every swear of income. This was the crown proof of the failure of the HDZ project to unite inspection services under the hat of the president of the Zagreb HDZ. In the series of affairs of Andrija Mikulić, a walking affair from HDZ's kitchen followed a case for hiring his wife in the company of the Prussian Building. We also have examples of the employment of Andrija Mikulić's staff in Zagreb Gas and Zagreb Cemeterys, and the crown is all employment in the student centre. And only the fill-up of the property card was justified for ignorance almost in the style of party colleague Lovre Kuščević, that there is so much thanks to God he forgot something to enter into the property card. It was employed by hand and hat so that the Pestice personnel networked the student centre, Mirko Bošnjak, the rehabilitation manager of the student centre, comes from the HDZ, and is known among the associates by his statement, I was appointed here by the HDZ party, and if you have anyone to intervene for you, let me know. Mario Zupan also comes from the HDZ Pestice, Dragan Krasic, president of the Sanacial Council of the Student Centre is famous for being best man of Andrija Mikulić, Pera Semen is a friend of Andrija Mikulić who hired his wife in his company, and Kristijan Rasic, Marija Lecter, Ivan Tomičić and Marina Estiš are employees of the Student Centre all of the HDZ branch of Pestenica. What's in common with all these people? Together, Andrija Mikulić, employment without a public tender, is an inadequate qualification for jobs, it would say credible. I again urge the president of the HDZ and the minister of education to join in clearing up this mud at the Student Centre. You didn't answer the call for the media, or the speech I gave in this House. You are not responding to an open letter from the University of Zagreb Student Assembly in which students point to poor management of this institution and unsustainable status at the student centre. I urge the students to speak out loud to the prime minister what he doesn't want to read if he doesn't want to hear or see. Dear students, say what is infuriating you at the student centre, respect the social distance, but do not lose the desire to fight for a better, fairer and fairer Croatia, and the student centre is a picture of Croatia at the moment. And why does Andrija Mikulić have so much trouble with the HDZ root example she is? The answer is perfectly simple, the HDZ is a large and bulky, repressive state apparatus such as the State Inspectorate, rather than an independent and experienced expert, delivered to the hands of an unprofessional, unsuitable and conflict-laden party. Andrija Mikulić is everything the chief state inspector shouldn't be. The chief state inspector is the best protected face of HDZ, a party whose undecided President Davor Stier has repeatedly said that the main problem of HDZ is nepotism and corruption, and by placing and now by keeping Andrija Mikulic after the series of affairs, Andrej Plenkovic shows what it means credible for him. Under Plenkovic, HDZ remained faithful to its way of corruption and nepotism. There is no better Croatia as long as characters like Andrija Mikulić can be in positions they should not be in. His choice for the state inspector was a twilight of wit, and his further retention in this place was a purely political sunflower. The election of dear citizens is coming, look and see who can ensure a better future, because with HDZ there is no future, because the cheek has long lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181232	The position of HSS and Democrats will be Mr. Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181233	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's since today is a difficult topic, seriously I'm going to take it a little bit more seriously, but not to the end unseriously. I'll start my free speech with a joke, and jokes come out of the people and people through them say what they're actually thinking. So in one village, Mr. Mujo lived, so young he didn't like to go to school, but he knew how to do it, and so one day he goes to a sprinkler in the village spraying on the road, on the houses, on the gardens, on people's fields, it was strange, so they called the police. He's being asked by a cop, is Mr. Mujo, why are you spraying it around? He says, "I'm crumbling on a crocodile." He says, but Mr. Mujo here doesn't have a crocodile calling a cop surprised. Well, of course not when I practice. That's what the cop said, and then I'll make it mandatory for everyone to spray because it wouldn't be good for the crocodiles to come in here and eat our kids. It didn't last long, the entire village was buying a crocodile product from Muja, spraying everything along and across, even the crisis situation headquarters that provided the measures and instructions on the implementation and monitoring of the sprays that everyone had to adhere to, would have been established, despite the fact that they would not get major penalties. From the sale of this spraying agent, Mujo became a tycoon, and in addition to that, he received a medal for child protection, even at the entrance to the village, a board of Muja’s village, a friend of the children. Every day at 2:00 p.m., headquarters announced where and when and who was eaten by a crocodile in the villages. It's someone who's been smudged by Mujo, destroying corn, killing a cow, killing a child with a strange disease, but all of a sudden it was much less harmful than a crocodile eating children. And no one should have doubted anything, let alone asked and explored, for it was unquestionable that no crocodile had been seen in the village since a thorough splash was seen. Every night the villagers went out to the fence and clapped Muji who solved the great crocodile problem in their village. HDZ headquarters destroyed the coronary virus within record time. And how could they not if they destroyed the entire state, the immune law, sold out the most important and most valuable assets of the Republic of Croatia still does so. And I hope that what we discussed today, and that's the choice of a new state attorney, the state's chief attorney, is that it's also going to be an issue she's going to be dealing with so that we finally find out who sold it and for what money. Of course, this is a joke. Long live headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181234	The eighth debate, the club of representatives of HSS and Democrats and colleagues Vlaho Orepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181235	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected fellow citizens, if I have learned anything in this short time of politics, it is that from bad or worse politics is only the lack of politics. We don't see that politics every day and we hear every day and it matches everything that's worth in this country. Every day I listen to a policy based on the personal discrediting of a political opponent, unargumented, brutally, certainly, it is one indifference both human and political that is happening in a political space. Every day we listen to this, can you imagine Bero being your prime minister, do you know who Cresho Beljak is, that's the kind of thing I listen to. Well, my people, Bernardic is the president of the main opposition party, and Krešo Beljak is the mayor of the most successful city in Croatia, chosen by 70% of his fellow citizens. And he is the president of the only party in Croatia, the only party in Croatia that has the full political depth of that Croatian identity at the moment and that is the truth. Whether she agrees with me personally or not. The question why has no one ever wondered why a prime minister could be someone who didn't lead his own party's branch before becoming prime minister? We have these facts, because he was wondering could the prime minister be someone who is at the head of a party who is accused of crimes and who is now in power only because of co-operation with a highly compromised Bandic? That's the facts. Why doesn't anyone wonder if someone like that can be prime minister? Are we going down to that level? Or to catch a more difficult topic than the crown, because it is obvious that we are in the autumn and lack of food supply, or perhaps hunger, because we will not have anything to supply ourselves with, is it possible to be the prime minister of someone who is at the head of a party who has made it possible for us to lack 50% of the milk, which allowed us to lack 50 or 60% of meat, fruit and vegetables 50 to 60%, which allowed us to import 3.3 billion of something that we don't produce, and we can produce. Is that possible, should I strive for such leaders? Is it acceptable for a prime minister to be at the head of a party that has emptied 200 villages in Slavonia? The real question for who did she empty it out for? Who controls the DORH, which has provided a Agrokor, which has allowed us, which has passed the INU, which is responsible because we have 52% of pensions below average, below the level of poverty in the Republic, which has allowed us to have 50% of pensions that are not deserved at all, is that something we should applaud and is that something that we should give a voice to continue to run this society? Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected fellow citizens, what's important is that you take care of who and what he proposes and whether it's someone who suggests it, whether it's even feasible. It's very important at this point recognized because the truth is only what you feel on your own skin and not necessarily what you hear and see. What we feel in our own skin is bad, it hurts. It offends common sense even by feeling it on our own skin. That's why I'm on the side of those who want to change it because I'm aware of the needs of gatherings, gatherings to just remove what brought us into such a situation. I want the work and knowledge to be profitable in this country immediately, I want the reinvestment tax to be abolished immediately, on reinvested funds, I want to reduce taxes or make agriculture and with real production at the moment, immediately but immediately make it profitable. It's the steps, it's the policy we have to deal with. I want to fight for a solidarity society where everyone can learn to heal and be equal before the law, whether they have money for it or not, these are political goals. Simply, these elections will be a sign of movement, non-functional, boastful, wasteful state, HDZ state and the creation of a national Croatian state, that is a fact. That's what we need, and with that goal, we need to gather together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181236	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181237	Now there's Mr. Miranda Mrsic, who will speak in front of the HSS and the Democrats. HSS? Let's go HSS and Democrats, okay. [[Clip incursion: and Democrats]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to report for a statement of opinion, but my colleague Lukacic encouraged me to say a few words about it since I was the first to start making the Employment Employment Law when I was a minister, that I was the minister who first introduced quota employment, that I was the minister who introduced certain penalties to those who didn't hire people with disabilities and then created this fund which was the goal of primarily encouraging the creation of new jobs for people with disabilities, to adapt their jobs, jobs, to enable the opening of protective workshops and to finance their work, their work. And since our employers aren't as up-to-date as European employers that they're full of mouths, full of people with disabilities, but when something needs to be done then they're nothing, this fund has started to fill nicely and this attitude of Mrs. If it wasn't for the program, so it wasn't, it couldn't be spent, whose problem is that? It's not the problem of those who, so it's not the problem of people with disabilities, is they themselves, they can't do it, but the problem of the government, the problem of the resolution ministry that should have encouraged companies to spend that money, which, as it is now, is that the helicopter threw the money and those who need it and don't need it, here should have made the employers use of these, these funds from that fund. And there was a lot of good money in that fund, and what did the government do? She's taken it from people with disabilities, and she'll never give it back to them. So these half a billion went like this. I asked the minister, and there's the secretary of state, to give us company that your money's gone to. And I will withdraw my discussion if those half a billion went to people with disabilities. But I looked at the list, in the first 100 companies that got the biggest money from the state to preserve jobs, there are no companies with people with disabilities, and looking at the structure of these companies is not to expect them to be, they have people with disabilities. In fact, some of them were paying into that fund and you're de facto returning to them now, and you took the weakest ones you could and what HDZ did, he took people with disabilities to buy votes in the elections, and that's the fact now, you can, I know that fellow Lukacic has to do it for party discipline, but be honest with people with disabilities because you, the association, is complaining to you. Maybe those that are under your control don't, but other associations that aren't quite objecting. The public objectes to you. No, at a time of crisis, you don't take those who are the weakest, people with disabilities are at risk on the labour market and those half a billion that have been taken will not save the economy. But it'll destroy that good story we told about hiring people with disabilities. And there's this cruel HDZ trade with elections here because it's only a matter of choice here. You shouldn't have done that. At the moment you put it in the law, I knew you'd do it. But if you had the sense to step on the ball and find the funds somewhere else, you wouldn't have to do that. But clearly, by making the Minister's move, by signing, those funds went up and didn't go to the ones they needed, that's, you're ashamed of what you did. Because you shouldn't have done that, those funds have been there, they've been there for years, and some have been standing because they're the means that allow people with disabilities to be employed that we have little on the labour market anyway. What's wrong with all this is that it's done to the burden of the weakest, HDZ has taken the weakest and it's this shameful trade in elections, Crude trade in elections, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which HDZ leads. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181239	A colleague, a colleague of Mrsic's. We are done taking the stand of the club of representatives in due time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181240	It is now up to Mr Davor Vlaovic who will be the sum of the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181241	Thank you very much, Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, in yesterday's rebalancing, what specifically rang to reduce the funds for the implementation of projects, the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and by more than 30% of the funds, and certainly I have to say on behalf of the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem that we, who really expected a lot of these projects, cannot accept such a reduction in the project implementation in Slavonia. And, hopefully, the government will see that, and these days they're going through Slavonia, that people are going to whistle at them for it. And what has been realised so far, what is crucial, there are no new jobs, there is no increase in living standards and still, as soon as the borders are opened, there is a presence of emigration from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. And what I would also like to point out is that the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection has also been reduced by a budget of 430 million kuna, so there is no money for water supply, water treatment, purification, waste management. And here's yesterday and the day before is the siege situation in the municipality of Davor due to the dump site of Bacanska which, for the second time in 10 days, was a gorilla, that every honor to the firemen of Orebica and Davor who managed to shut it down, but the fact that the air with dense black smoke was terribly polluted, even though the captain and the team there say there was no danger and threat to the population, people were scared and called to the assembly and called the police and all those responsible, were looking for information on why there was a fire, how much garbage was being brought there, where it was being brought from, and reportedly being transported from Split, from Varazdin and all other parts, although it was only a dump for the municipality of Davor and neighbouring municipalities in order to get rid of the wild waste dumps. Also here was yesterday seen and the drop of this polluted water was obviously a huge amount of water spent on the recovery of the fire, and this water pointed out in nearby water streams, in the canals and in the Sava River and it was seen even the dead fish, so today I sent Minister Coric a memo, asking him to send a water inspector and to report to me and the public on the found state of the report. And of course, along with this, certain people should be responsible, and I think the management of the municipal company must go, and I think the head of the community that protects should go on and on and on, and Minister Coric himself has been on this problem for 4 years. We're warning you. And of course, I have to touch agriculture and food production. Here the minister had a video conference and Europe is aware that food needs to be produced, that food production is self-sufficient for its population, and what does the Republic of Croatia do? Nothing, we continue to record the decline in production, nothing is solved through land policy, the law has been passed, the competition is gone, not 50 hectares so far through the lease agreements and concession given to our agricultural producers, but a concession has been transferred to the Forte Nova group and so on. Our agricultural producers cry for agricultural land because there is no production without rounding and no agricultural land there is no food production in the Republic of Croatia. And it's devastating that even this little production, for example in pigs, we now have a terrible problem in our 3 Slavonian counties, here are over 2,500 pigs of fathomers weighing 120 kg, who don't have people to sell to, they're going to have to give away that they don't have any further expense and damage. The minister promised an intervention ransom, something small milk was bought, and what about pigs, what about heroes who also have no one to sell to? How is he going to help the wine sector? Did the wine producers not sell any butts because of this crisis? And imagine, 500 florists in the group expressed dissatisfaction and with the right of only one million kuna support for the production of flowers in Croatia. What are you going to do with a million kunas on 500 producers? Well, that's funny, she better not have given anything. And what is important is that the interpretation that we have referred to the government and the ministry to apply for moratorium for the sale of state agricultural land to foreigners for another three years and we have received word of orality here in the Parliament that the procedure has been launched, but here will be a disbanded parliament, we have no feedback whether the request is really submitted, whether it will be approved or after leaving this government, the foreigners will be able to buy state agricultural land in Croatia because of the inactivity of the minister and the entire government. Here, on behalf of all agricultural producers, I am looking for a special fund to co-finance agricultural production because without it we will not raise food production in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181242	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181243	The next club of MPs is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Miranda Mrsic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181244	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Today is the disbanding of the Parliament, a cruel message to the Zagreb and Zagrebers who, along with a covid-19, were struck by the earthquake, that HDZ had forgotten them and left them to the realtors. By raising hands to enter a new election cycle, HDZ has also shown them and us that his concern for staying in power is most important, not caring for the victims. The HDZ's haste in the elections is losing the right function of the parliament, which should be the voice of the people, not the political market for chairs. And anyone who supports HDZ today should no longer look at the assembly door from Mark's square, let alone ever set foot in this assembly again. It is a catastrophic fact that HDZ and Mayor Milan Bandic started hitting on the clear definition of the Law on the Renewal of Zagreb after the earthquake. It is even sadder that the capital of one EU member has been in ruins for two months now and is nowhere near the recovery of the earthquake, let alone a systematic recovery solution. And the world is following us, even countries with a much smaller level of development reacted more effectively to this threat. After all, if you were my parliamentary representatives and MPs who will actually vote against the renewal of Zagreb today as a doctor with advanced disease, believe me, you would not want me to hit you in departments, you would like a clear diagnosis, urgent recovery and a solution to your health condition. Today on the 57th day after the earthquake Zagreb has no clear diagnosis or completed emergency triage, an even less systematic recovery solution, and the pronunciation of the crown is, we are looking for the best solution are excuses that will not pass even with a small child, and will not pass in Zagreb safely. Show at least a little humanity whether you are aware of all who are now sitting in a comfortable chair that citizens and citizens in the center of Zagreb and epicenter around Markusevic still have no roof over their heads, well live in extremely unstable building facilities, and individual objects are a real threat to anyone who passes by them. Forget about the tourists in Zagreb for a long time. Zagreb will bypass the wide port and it would be even more irresponsible if someone were to get hurt, God forbid someone gets hurt by bricks or shrubs. Dear citizens and citizens, if you have the stomach to follow today's disbandment of the Parliament in front of small screens, this one sad, shameful session of the Parliament, I'll tell you that I'm not sure that your cries will really hear the majority of the Parliament. As a doctor, I can tell you that only a precise surgical cut helps. Here your voice is a precise surgical knife that can remove the malignant political trade that has been an obstacle for years on the way to the development and progress of Croatia. Choose responsibly how you will use your voice to be as precise as possible in removing this political trade. I call upon all those who are in the Parliament today and have moved to the dark side, if there is any power blinking in you do not support the disbanding of the Parliament before we pass the Law on the restoration of the City of Zagreb. Ask the profession, the profession knows, the recovery of Zagreb is not an impossible mission, and with the law of restoration it is targetedly waiting and delaying help for our citizens and citizens. On the other hand, as a doctor, I am responsibly saying that we have not yet entered a phase in which we can safely say that the crown is a pandemic in esophageal. Croatian citizens and citizens are not ready to go to the polls safely, we have many more people in self-insulation who will not be able to fulfil their civic duty. Civil protection headquarters is highly politicised, he no longer has that kind of power, he's part of the PR machine. This is no longer a question of whether someone politically ready to vote or not, this is a question of a reasonable, responsible and human response to the threat that is now ahead of us. We are talking about the health of our people who are the axis of statehood, the sustainability of economic development, we are talking about Zagreb and Zagrebers who must have a clear picture of when and under what conditions their home will be rescheduled. But it doesn't matter if the elections are held in two or three weeks or months or two, let's agree on responsible priorities as the voice of the people in this assembly, let's show the voice of reason to choose a responsible Law on the restoration of the City of Zagreb and quality monitoring of the impact of economic activity, let's not let HDZ fool us again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181246	I can say, I can say, and then we'll start, then the time will start, which will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, Mr. Lenart, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181247	I thank you, dear Vice President, here I am a peasant and I must admit that more nonsense in one place than Glasovic said now I've never heard of agriculture has no idea. Here today I will talk about Sisak-Moslavina County, where the revision of Sisak-Moslavina County is headed by Mayor Ivo Žinić and Roman Rosavec, members of HDZ, people who boast that they are great patriots, but do everything the opposite and are a great shame and that is HDZ. The planned budget in Sisak-Moslavina County was 824 million, at the end of the year raising it by 73 million to 897 million, and then in the Implementation Report it was achieved with 660 million i.e. 26% less, 721 million was realised, so more spent than was earned. Original budget of Sisak-Moslavina County for 2018. It's 195 million kuna, which is 13% less than the year before, although taxes were 67% higher than the year before. What's the problem in this county are major irregularities, so says the revision that part of the income is worth 5.7 million kuna in terms of hunting for rents, concessions for hunting rights, donations, not spent on purpose, the county received and advances of 3.5 million kuna for the project of an educational demonstration centre for demining, mine polluted areas which also in 2/3 have no reports in which... spent, spent for other purposes. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The lack of income was transferred from 2017. 22 million, 20 million deficits occurred in 2018. which is 43 million kuna missing. Obligations are made at the end of the year of 85 million and 237 thousand kuna. The County granted the company Simora 3.5 million kuna for which the agency did not deliver the reports properly, it delivered only for the first quarter and at the end of the year, but failed to provide documentation with contracts and accounts on the operations carried out, so it does not know what it was spent on. Public procurement in this county is carried out in this way, the procedures for simple procurement of one million kuna have not been fully implemented in accordance with the provisions of the county regulation, no expert commission for the implementation of the procedure has been established, the officers who carried out the proceedings have not signed a declaration of the existence or absence of a conflict of interest, the invitation to tender has not been sent to any economic operator and no tenders have been received. Here you can see how money is spent in Sisak-Moslavina County, the county that is the poorest of all counties in the Republic of Croatia. At the end of 2018, the County had 10 official vehicles, passenger work orders and lists to be certified monthly. The passenger passports for two official vehicles, and obviously the vehicles of the mayor and the mayor do not contain data on the date of travel, the number of travel orders, names and last name of the driver, the state of the number of kilometers before and after the return, the time of departure and return, the route, the number of persons to be carried out, the costs incurred in the time of travel, the taking of fuel, the washing and the second and the signature of the driver, and cannot be confirmed by who and for which needs the official vehicle used and whether the costs incurred by the use of the vehicle are justified. I repeat again, Ivo Žinic, a HDZ member, I ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who will take on such mayors, here today someone was saying that the counties should be abolished, such counties that are so proud of taxpayers' money, and they are poor, they should certainly be abolished, such mayors are the disgrace of the Republic of Croatia and the party they belong to. This is just part of the review report, unfortunately due to the time I can no longer carry out, there are still problems at Sisak Hospital which is one of the worst hospitals, which does not have 50% bed filling, a hospital where medicines are not paid, where due to the lack of care of mayors and parishioners are brought into such a situation that everyone avoids such a hospital and even doctors flee from it. Once again, I urge the president of the HDZ to take care of his mayors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181248	Time's up. Thank you. We are now going to the 9th debate, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181249	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In our people they say “Every evil for any good ” and it is not all that bad. But here's this evil, a worldwide epidemic caused by the coronary virus has helped our prime minister explain why he solves Mr. Kujundzic's health minister and the truth is that he was not focused on the work of the ministry or was focused on the quality of health care. It is true that this will not solve problems in health care and that the new minister except that it is good to announce the introduction of an emergency helicopter service that the HSS here in the Assembly has been talking about and has made an amendment to introduce an emergency helicopter service in the Republic of Croatia, then the current majority has refused, and here we see they are coming out with this proposal. It is good to move to work, however, remains the problem of unpaid salaries and overtime for doctors, lack of doctors, waiting lists for reviews, getting medical equipment, availability of healthcare, health problems, lack of family medicine doctors. The string is a problem, and not only is this helicopter destination enough, it's one serious approach. And I want a new minister of good luck to succeed because that's what patients and citizens expect of him to do. However, a new virus has appeared on the scene especially that threatens the quality of life and the availability of all those life needs to the inhabitants of Slavonia, Baranja, and Srijem. Last week, we heard that over 500 million investments in the construction of the railway line from Novska – Nova Gradiška towards Vinkovci and Vukovar were made. For saying hello. However, here I have a letter and a request from the residents, more than 300 inhabitants of the village Gornji and Donji Crnogovci and Laza because the one who designs this new modern railway that trains will go significantly faster and be safer in this project has no overpasses, nor the underpass on the local road that connects these three settlements that mean life to these residents, which connects these settlements with the home municipality of Staro Petrovo Selo, which their lives mean to them because they live on the road and the doctor in the municipality and in the school and in the church and so on since the 13th century. More than 300 inhabitants, and this is mostly the agricultural area, there are more than 5-6 farms of young families left there, over 750 in tov, more than a million liters of milk produced, several hundred pigs, more than 100,000 beaks of poultry are produced there. And now because it is expensive to build an overpass or underpass for someone in the Croatian railways, these villages should go to the home municipality of Staro Petrovo Selo or towards Novi Gradiška or towards Slavonski Brod 20 km longer. And it's particularly problematic that it's gravitating over 100, 1,000 hectares of state agricultural land that they're processing. How will they get to these fields with their working machines? Did anyone take care of that? Or some kind of virus clouded him in his design. So the question on behalf of those 300 residents is whether it really is so, especially if they haven't received an answer in the local community, the local leader there says no matter what you're worried about it will come to life in 10 years. So many local officials from the ruling coalition believe in their own government and their own ministers and investments in the area. But one day it will come if it stays this way and the voice of those inhabitants who want to live there is not heard. And it's a shame that it's been two years for those cattle that don't have enough land to wait for the call. So the question is, what does the Ministry of Agriculture do, what do local self-government units do, why don't they discuss competitions for state agricultural land? Because it's impossible to round up your property, develop production, if you don't have a basic resource, and that's agricultural land. Or it is waiting for foreigners to acquire the right to buy state agricultural land in Croatia and sell to foreigners because the ministry has not yet put our request in the parliamentary debate to initiate the procedure, to introduce an additional 3 years of ban on selling state agricultural land to foreigners. It is obvious that this government is working in favour of foreign capital, obviously there are more viruses that have clouded their minds, not to worry about the quality of life of citizens in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and that with the right of the people of Montenegro, Laza and other settlements, the color for the quality of life seems to have to be, not because of this virus, but also because of projects like this, moving out of these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181250	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181251	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We begin with a statement of clubs and independent representatives. First in line today, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181252	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The health system is under collapse and another health minister has left, but citizens still have poor health care. We're the first in Europe for cancer mortality, people are dying, and our health system is getting worse. Croatian coronaryvirus is a cancer, it's not a virus that comes from Asia, it's a cancer in Croatia and what needs to be said clearly is that we don't talk about it enough and that the ruling eyes are closing over that fact. One minister has left, but there is a 9.4 billion kuna hospital system left, and it is clear that the system is about to collapse. And the decline of the health system from year to year is speeding up, and it's going to be getting harder and harder. Health cost estimates in Croatia are completely unrealistic, although the extension of life expectancy indicates that the health cost explosion is not ready for us in Croatia. We spend unreal, our system is in organisational chaos, our hospitals are in a chronic deficit, we watch the public system fail, we maintain an illogical cost structure in health and we wait for someone else to give us a solution, but the solution won't fall out of the sky. The Croats are among the leading in Europe for cancer mortality, the treatment costs us much more than prevention, but no one is talking about it today. Most of the people in Croatia who had cancer, cancer revealed accidental departure, the majority waited for 3 to 6 months for disease diagnosis, and the start of treatment after a month of diagnosis. The devastating fact is that in Croatia 31% of patients with malignancies were already diagnosed with metastases at the time of diagnosis. Late diagnosis when cancer has already spread to other organs is a problem that is constantly being warned because early detection brings greater safety and potential for healing. In addition to wandering through a system of people suffering from cancer, there is a different chance of survival depending on the place of residence. If you're in a big city or you're gravitating it, then you're ahead of those who live in smaller environments where oncology protection is much smaller. Prevention and care for health are something important to the administration for and promote. It should be said that the National Anticancer Plan is here somewhere, by defining the cutting of hospitals that diagnose and treat cancer, and by what result there is something that we will have very soon. It is the document that has been working for years and has been waiting longer and should change the way cancer is treated in Croatia. And what's also important is that this national programme won't come to life unless there's funding behind it. Health financing should be directly linked to the main identified health risks of the population, which is, in any case, cancer. If, after adoption of this national plan, no concrete financial resources follow, it will only remain a dead letter on paper. If we base the fight against cancer on private clinics and diagnostic devices, the national plan will turn public money into private pockets. In health care, it is very clear to separate privately and publicly. It has become normal for long waiting lists and bad system organisations to pay expensive diagnostics to privates. This will continue if we do not put the health system as a national priority. Minister Beroš, who has the largest budget in Croatian health history, has said over 30 billion, "No country in the world is rich to be based on public health, therefore most combine public and private health." It is very clear from these sentences that HDZ and Minister Beros have no intention of separating publicly from private health. The consequences of health policies are fatal, relationships of human lives. Turn around, see how many cancer patients we have. Other countries are fighting this disease by preventing and strengthening the system, and we alone have the idea of further privatizing the system. It is the government's policy, HDZ policy and the carelessness of Plenkovic and his health ministers. Privatisation of health care is not a solution, it is a problem that many Croatian citizens will be entitled to treatment and health care. So don't privatize health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181253	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181254	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is according to the Constitution of the social state but unfortunately the social state is only on paper because in reality Croatia closes its eyes against the great injustice of protected tenants, which was passed by law in this House in 2018. Namely, the Law on renting apartments, protected tenants, has been approved to increase their protected rent by 1.2 times and 120% annually, respectively. The increase in the rent account, protected by the tenants, and by the end of 2023 when all those on the 1st of September laws will have to leave their apartments, the rent will increase 600%. For example, one can see what it looks like, namely a rental that is of 1. Nine. In 2018 it was 500 kuna, today 2020 it is 1700 kuna and on today 2023 it will be 3500 kuna. I note that if we compare the average pension in 2018, which was 2344 per projection, in 2020 it will be 2654 kuna and from this it is very clear that the protected tenants, most of them retired, after the settlement of the rent, remain 300 kuna for life. What does that mean in practice? This means that a retired professor from the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, on September 1, 2023, the sea on the street and her apartment was assigned for use because she was on the faculty list as well as thousands of others. She was the only one who belonged to a confiscated apartment, and some others were lucky to have been assigned a social apartment and others could buy their apartment and she couldn't because the house sales law wouldn't allow it. The teacher didn't break into the apartment, she didn't kick anyone out, the teacher wasn't a usurper, she's not an occupier, as all these tenants call Croatia's representatives in the European Court of Justice. She's an honest scientist who's gonna be on the street on Friday, September 1, 2023. It's an injustice and that's what we want to warn you from this pay phone. The provision of the article ceases on 1 September to apply the right of a protected tenant and they are obliged to move out of the dwellings, as stated by the law that we have adopted in the Assembly. The conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on measures for the implementation of the House Rental Act of 13 July 2018 is entrusted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a programme for the implementation of the House Rental Act by 30 November 2019, while the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning is tasked with drawing up a proposal for that programme. The Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on the adoption of the programme on 27.12, but it is clear from the reasons that there is no plan and programme, no housing and no data on the needs or social status data. From all of this, it is very clear that the law proposed by the CNS, and HDZ accepted no way to implement it, and on the other hand the law is discriminatory because they will put all these protected tenants in the ass and will kick them out of their apartments because if we look at those who are protected by the renters owned by the local self-government unit, then they will stay in apartments and those in apartments, and those who are therefore not the owner of local self-government will unfortunately have to lose the status of the protected tenant and on September 1st 2023, because the government does not do what the government should do, the government closes its eyes to this problem. And once again, we would like to warn that it is something that this House should make clear, and if at all possible, it is possible for the government to make it possible for these people to stay in their apartments on September 1, 2023. Unfortunately, just once sign in to HDZ, choose a page in the internal elections and maybe your problem will be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181255	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181256	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181257	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here are a few words about.../incomprehensible/... state in Croatian agriculture, in the Croatian village. In fact, the European Commission and all its members are discussing a new budget period, a new financial package from 2021 to 2027, said that the EU's priority is the green plan, the energy neutral continent of Europe by 2050, and the real question is where Croatia is, where is the future of Croatian villages and Croatian agriculture. Under the Green Plan, the financial framework for the financing of the common agricultural policy is planned to be reduced. Most European farmers, too, were eventually protested in Berlin, within the framework of the European Green Week, where they said that the new common agricultural policy cannot be built and planned without the attitude and opinion of agricultural producers. They are not agricultural producers against the green plan, but they want to be active stakeholders, and if they have to, and they want to implement that plan, then it is also a affordable plan for them, or that they can live on it, and on the other hand, that citizens and consumers have a safe source of food. Because we see now what happens now on the world level when we have a major crisis because of the coronary when individual production suffers because there is limited access to the Chinese market and there is a real danger of food production. And surely, given that we have decided that agriculture within the economy is a strategic branch of the economy, we also need to monitor and define our local, national policies as such. So the question is, does Croatia even have a position on this issue? Of course, it is a great honor that we now chair the EU, but the problem is that we must be neutral in that part. However, while we must be neutral, we can and must have our own position, are we to reduce the financial framework for the financing of agriculture or not? We at HSS believe that we must ask that Croatian farmers receive the same level or even higher level of funding because our agriculture is lagging behind competition from the EU and I find it odd that Croatia did not give its position in these talks, and the former minister promised that Croatian farmers would not be reduced by direct payments and the overall package for rural development measures. Obviously he will, obviously someone has lied or Croatia has no attitude. In this context, it is important and the most important thing is land policy because there is no production without resources, no agricultural land. We still haven't received a parliamentary debate request from HSS supported by 20 colleagues from other parties where we asked to discuss here in the Croatian Parliament on the application for moratorium for the sale of the country to foreigners for another three years. Supposedly, it was sent to the ministry in procedure, but we didn't get it here for discussion, and I call on the President of the Croatian Parliament to put it in the process as soon as possible because the Croatian Parliament has to be manifested, and I think it is the interest of all our farmers that the country cannot be sold to foreigners for at least 3 years, if not longer. There is also a big debate now over the need to amend the Law on Agricultural Land. There are also major objections from family farms, they have also been objecting to the industry of particularly the processing industry and large food producers in Croatia. They're not happy with each other with the law, and it could be said that the law is good if they're not satisfied with either the left or the right to say so. But it's not like that. It's just that the law doesn't apply. It took more than two years to pass the law. I warned that he was late with sublegal acts, 19 regulations were to be passed, there was a delay in this, and simple availability programmes that municipalities and cities referred to consent in the Ministry of Agriculture are not yet all approved. Or, more specifically, around 190 municipalities and cities have not received agreement from the agriculture ministry. And why didn't they get it? It is now the chief's fault, so it is not the mayors and mayors who blame it, but rather the Ministry of Agriculture which did not make clear rules, which did not define the limits of the public water goods, which did not define which particles are within the scope of the Croatian forests. And who suffers? The Croatian village and Croatian agriculture suffer. If the village dies, Croatia will die too, let us not allow Croatia to remain our rights, let us not be left without food production, the warning is now a coronary virus, I hope we do not lose food, and everything goes to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181258	Thank you. We've exhausted today's agenda, so we'll finish today's session. We will continue again on Wednesday 19 February at 9:30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal of the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2021, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. Number 834. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 15.55 hours. The next club of MPs will be that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of which the respected representative Miranda Mrsic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181260	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. After those morning doses of bickering who is a Serb, who is a Croat, after hurting the Rules of Procedure and all that we have heard this morning, what is common in this point of the agenda, I would have warned of one thing, I only expected all the MPs today to talk about it, and that is an epidemic of the coronary virus in Croatia and that is what should all be concerned in Croatia at this moment because, to remind you, we do not have a vaccine, there are no antiviral medicines and the only measures we can take are measures to prevent and stop the spread of the epidemic. In fact, there are no reasons for panic, we see that in the paper that masks are being bought, disinfections, that empty shelves and I expected that here we as assembly representatives would invite citizens to listen to what people who know a lot about it say, not to spread panic because we are a country that is a tourist country, which depends on the tourist season and I don't think spreading panic makes sense. And one message from me as a doctor is that the most important thing is to follow your hands and that's the best measure of prevention of disease when we talk about any viral disease. And here as a medic and a doctor I want to repeat one simple rule, which is that hands should be monitored frequently, that they should be monitored for at least 20 to 30 seconds, thoroughly with soap and water because it is the best prevention and protection and prevention and protection against infection with viruses because the virus enters the body through the mouth, eyes and nose, and therefore it is most important to follow hands. And that's this message I want to send from this pay phone today, which is to wash our hands as many times a day as we can. Because it has been shown in studies, a major research by the Center for Disease Prevention says that the frequency of the epidemic or the spread of the epidemic can be reduced by 16 to 21% if the virus is washed by our hands, on the handles, on the tables, and that is one effective measure, and for this coronary virus even say that somewhere in 69% of the cases, we can prevent the spread of the epidemic. Using facial masks, writing panic status on social networks, my message wash your hands, and for starters that will be enough. But this coronary infection has shown another problem in Croatia, which is the problem of the Immunological Institute. Because Croatia has obviously raised its hands from the Immunological Institute and the question now that we see about the coronary infection with the virus that it is not a matter that enters the sphere of health care but rather a sphere of national security. Since he began to serve the private interest, Immunological development has stagnated what eventually led to a complete end to production, and the government does not show the will to address the situation as soon as possible to the benefit of the Croatian population. Today, when new challenges arise like this coronary infection with the virus, but we are likely to see some new challenges in the future, the return of the Immunological Institute to full operational strength is something that is more important to Croatia than ever. And what I regret is that because we destroyed the Immunological Institute Croatia will miss the opportunity to side by side of countries that are working on developing an effective coronary vaccine virus, and if we had that institution then we would be together with countries that are currently working intensively on it. This is the moment when the government has to stop with this irresponsible policy and maybe this is the moment when the government should run and put the Immunological Institute on its feet. Once again faced with the possible pandemic of the virus, it shows how important it is to have a public health system, however many difficulties we have knowledge of how to respond to the challenges we just have to stop the destruction of public health, and the immune system is part of that public system. Why wait for others to develop the vaccine if we have an immunological institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181261	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181262	Mr Zeljko Lenart will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181263	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to talk about some of the problems that have arisen about this story about the coronary virus and this overemphasis of panic and paranoia that is spreading to the Republic of Croatia. It's unusual for the Prime Minister to go to the press and say we have a situation and he's talking about two people who already have no temperature today, and it's getting the impression that this situation of creating a panic over the coronary virus, it's only responding to the HDZ that in this way is covering up its internal problems that are happening around their choices, but they're not focusing on me here, they'd be talking about car carriers from freight transport and passenger transport that have sent me a series of solutions they've received since they've been in Italy every day and they've been driving loads for Italy, they've got months contracts, they've got obligations to their partners from Italy and what's happening now, that they've been waiting 20 hours to enter the Republic of Croatia, the column has been a long 13km which gives them a lot of problems because they have limited driving and they can're simply not work that way. What's their problem is that they all got solutions at the border that they had to report to their on-call epidemiologist for a medical examination and for a 14-day surveillance period. Do you know what 14 days of not driving for one car carrier that has one or two trucks where he and his family drive and serve and each month they have to pay at least 10 000 kn of giving the Republic of Croatia, 14 days because they are not infected, they have not been diagnosed with a single symptom, they have to stop, suffer damage and suffer the penalty that they will have because they do not respect contracts with their partners in Italy. Since our prominent experts who work unfortunately abroad are Đikic and Rudan, who themselves said that this is an excessive panic that is spreading to the Republic of Croatia, that talking about the Coronal of the Virus is not as dangerous as we blow it up, I also think that I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the Resort ministries can consider these measures that command the carriers, try to sit with their union and talk to them and see how control can be carried out with respect to the Coronus virus and that these people can still function and can carry out the obligations they have and that they can normally operate their companies that own trucks and are engaged in such transport. People are desperate, and so their transport prices are minimal and barely operational with those prices of transport that they achieve, and if in this way we will treat them as any normal passenger and put them under surveillance for 14 days, probably many of them will have to close their companies, they will have to sell their trucks to meet their obligations and normal, they will also suffer the budget of the Republic of Croatia for that. Lost contracts that are lost in this way by disrespect are very difficult to restore, and it is very difficult for these partners to get back into some kind of correct relationship. Therefore, once again appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, consider, find measures that can satisfy and protect from the Crown but which can also help carriers operate in public transport, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181264	We are now going to a third debate, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic on behalf of the HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181265	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs, in today's speech, I would like to point to the harmfulness of the government's current policy measures in the area of wage policy and to point out how unthinkable and this harmful policy is reflected in the poor social situation of our citizens. In recent times, we have been able to listen to the Prime Minister and Minister Maric's praises about the benefits of 4 rounds of tax reform, about how the state will relieve citizens, about how they will raise salaries, but obviously did not see it affecting the social security of citizens in the long term and what it will mean in the future for their pensions, for their position when they retire. I have already talked about the harmfulness of wage policy in this assembly on several occasions and have pointed to the consequences that such harmful measures of tax reform will affect our citizens when it comes to social security because there are no mechanisms for compensating and preventing these bad effects on the future of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the payment of the non-taxable prizes has become a monster in Croatia, anything can, anything that can be paid as an untaxable payment. Many workers who had a warm meal in gross wages, which resulted in their higher sickness benefits, and then eventually for their pensions, but with tax reform, Minister Maric pulled it out of gross wages and replaced it with an untaxed diet. The question arises how much tax reform has affected employers of those who do not have such an institute for their workers to introduce it, and how many workers have lost because of their gross salary cuts? Unfortunately, however, harmful tax policy does not have a bad impact on workers and future pensioners, as I have warned, but also on current pensioners. According to the current methodology of the State Statistics Institute, average gross and net wages do not include non-taxable fees introduced by Minister Maric's reform and broadly introduced in Croatia. For this reason, the Government realized that in this pre-election time it would be bad because de facto as the State Statistics Institute had calculated the salary to show that, instead of paying, the salary was growing, so it had changed, the government had replaced the Director of DZS because he obviously did not listen and did not want to do the creative statistics that we see with the current director in the DZS, so it was decided that as a salary in Croatia, we would include these non-taxable payments, only with the aim of making the HDZ picture bigger, but we did not include it in what is important, therefore, not included in the calculation of the pension, or in the calculation of the pension there is no. However, if the government so strongly advocates such a salary policy, then it would be fair for that policy to also be paid to reflect on the pension system in such a way that the current formula for harmonising pensions is changed and that these non-taxables are included in that formula. So, not only does the government look nice in front of the citizens, but let them choose to do it for the current pensioners, so there would be no increase of 0.7% of the pensions announced by the government. Otherwise, our pensioners won't see the benefits of increasing, in quotes, the salaries of our workers. Likewise, the state should show care for its pensioners because, as announced, our Cro tourist card will have the right workers in working relationships, craftsmen, workers of free professions and farmers on that card. I plead that the government in that Cro card includes pensioners in a way that these pensioners use that Cro card for health tourism. So while the prime minister deals with stimulating incentives for our emigrants Insulting their dignity, it's time to make [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] something for the pensioners. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181266	All right, we're moving forward, so we're taking a stand on behalf of the MPs' club and the independent MPs' club, first Mr. Zeljko Lenart in front of HSS and Democrats, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181267	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The topic I have to talk about again in this Visko Dom is problems in Sisak-Moslavina County, the way Ivo Žinić and Mayor Romano Rosavec, the attitude towards the county council members in the county assembly. Unfortunately, the county council members have been demoted, belittled to... The county assembly is even offended and threatened by the mayors Ivo Žinic and Roman Rosavec. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is worrying about in Sisak-Moslavina County, which is precisely what the assembly noticed, was that at the time when it was asked the Commissioner of the Pu Sisak-Moslavina County, Mr Luki Pesutu, by opposition councillors, the mayor and the mayor banned him from answering these questions. So now I'm interested in the answer of Mr. Bozinovic, who should be head of the Pu Sisak-Moslavina County, is he really the head or is he the mayor? Given the things that are happening in Sisak-Moslavina County, various malversions, suspicions and many things that are not being processed, we have started to think about it and there is more evidence that the work of the PU in Sisak-Moslavina County is being controlled by the mayor Žinic. Since here, and mentioning the mayor made two car accidents in less than a year in which he took advantage, where he broke up the county car, there he could have suffered serious injuries to those with whom he had a car accident. Addressing the mayor's office, as well as the portals that wrote about it, it is said that Mayor Zinic paid the fine on the spot and is then listed between 3 and 7000 kuna, which raises doubts whether he even paid for it, and therefore there are no other sanctions for the mayor. I wonder if Mayor Zinic is the same in front of the law as the rest of us, he's a rectivist, I ask the police administration how until now he hasn't lost his driver's license since he repeats the crimes he's committed? Sisak-Moslavina County is one of the poorest counties, one of the two counties in which there are more pensioners than those who are employed, a county from which 18% of young people between 16 and 30 have left, a county that ie. The county administration that planned a budget of 900 million kuna and then realized it with 660 million kuna, over 30% failed in their plans, although they had 40% higher taxes in Sisak-Moslavina County. Mayor Žinic is also known for threatening journalist Klancir through the police, which I am bringing back to this story about the editing and management of police administration, and I do not know how long it will take place and when Prime Minister Plenkovic, who is the president of HDZ and Ivo Žinic, is a member of HDZ and the chairman of the HDZ County Committee, until he tolerates the behavior of these two people who are trying to usurp power in Sisak-Moslavina County where they act as Pharaohs, threaten the county council, do not give them phonograms to listen to what they said and to give it to the public. Such a county is an example of why young people leave, such a county is an example for which the county should be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181268	The next club of MPs is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181269	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. With regard to the current situation for the threat of both Croatia and the Croatian population of coronaryvirus, we should congratulate the National Civil Protection Staff, all public health professionals, all sanitary engineers, all police officers and customs officers, who here, daily do a good job and it is good that we do not still have a large number of infected in the Republic of Croatia and that mainly that the virus is not in free circulation but is mainly from imports, through, from people who have returned from the European countries to Croatia and it is to welcome. To welcome the measures that the government has launched in terms of preventing the spread of the virus population through the closure of schools and colleges, but of course we also need to say a few words about the problem in the economy. In fact, at least they order this from the field, most of our craftsmen, entrepreneurs, and resolution chambers, that the Croatian government is late with measures and with a decision to help the Croatian economy, the EU has envisioned more than 25 billion euros. Germany has come out with concrete measures with 12.5 billion euros, Slovenia has taken concrete measures, Italy, we do not yet have, here, we only have indications that the situation is being monitored and that in the coming weeks the government will come up with concrete proposals. The tourism minister has already announced that there are major damages to tourism, that booking is in decline, so here is just an example of the town of Hvar, that by 1.6, more than 50% of reservations have been cancelled. So the damages are certainly very high in tourism. The damages are high among companies dealing with the transport of goods, with companies providing services, and craftsmen who are exporters, especially family, companies, small companies are in big trouble that even part of them plans to close production and lay off workers. So it takes urgent and concrete measures both for tourism and for the transport part and for services for craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and what we are interested in, where is the Minister of Agriculture? They've all called in a certain way, she's silent. Is there no harm in agriculture? How is it planned to help agricultural producers that, surely, certain disturbances will occur in terms of the possibility of buying seed, fruit material, since before us is the seed season, the seed season. Whether problems will arise in the placement of products currently present on the Croatian market and again we warn the part that Croatia must not be dependent on the import of food. If agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy, if the safety of our citizens is important, then it is important in terms of nutrition and the question is here, in which way we can guarantee our population food safety if we do not have enough food, food production, neither in milk nor in meat, nor in vegetables, nor in fruit. And yes, there is no need to spread panic, but concrete measures should be taken. One of them is also a stock reserve. Activating, whether or not there will be needs, but what is crucial is the question that has often been in history, that these border reserves are on paper, and in practice there are no goods in the warehouses. Remember how the pigeons ate the wheat in Djakov. Do we have those wheat in stock and whether imports will continue to be needed, and it is a shame to import more than 60 thousand tonnes of frozen pastry into Croatia for the bakery industry. What about domestic production and whether anyone cares about food production in Croatia, and we see that the Minister of Agriculture is silent. It is also important to highlight the problems of the woodworking industry which employs over 50,000 people and which is mainly export-oriented. It was done, the state cluster made a survey of 145 of its stakeholders, 60% of them said they had a cut in orders. They are afraid that this trend will continue, and it is certain that they are now becoming a major problem of liquidity, retaining existing employment and general planning of further production, some have already announced further layoffs of workers, and already fewer companies are planning, if this takes both the closure of production and the dismissal of all workers. It is urgent that the government, the Resort Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance react as we must safeguard jobs and ensure the quality of life of our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181270	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181271	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here on behalf of the HSS Club, we would like to congratulate once again and thank all those who work for us today, for the safety of all our citizens, means to all public health workers, all the workers in medical institutions, nurses, doctors, staff, of course both police officers and customs officers and all those who work. And I would also like to congratulate, of course, all our citizens who are responsible for acting and following the instructions of the National Civil Protection Staff as well as the county headquarters, and it can be said that our citizens are, in most cases, well-accompanied and properly treating the proposed measures and they understand the seriousness of the situation. And precisely because of these workers I congratulated, there is one problem that needs to be pointed out now and one problem that arises, which is that a good part of these employees works overtime, works day and night, and here we ask that the Government also takes care of these measures because there are often no replacements, they have to stay working longer, they often have to work overtime and weekends and expect them to be adequate and paid. It is even past work contracts, past the Labour Act and other regulations, but in this situation it needs to find models to reward these people and pay them for that work. Of course, it should be said to repeat what I said yesterday, that these measures are both in a certain way and delayed, especially for those 500 workers who have already been fired, and here today we get a lot of messages and e-mails that both hosts and other tourism workers are closing their facilities, firing workers, and that the pressure on the Employment and Pressure Office is also on accounting services. And here we received an email from the Intellectual Services Ceha, which notes that most craftsmen who are self-employed or have several employees in the activities of bookkeeping, tourism, adventure tourism, photography services and shooting, promotions and marketing, babysitting, playrooms and entertainment programs and other evens. They are also without a job at this time and are not seen in these measures and they ask that the Republic of Croatia and the Government through these measures take account of and on these independent craftsmen, and I would add there about OPG holders who are self-employed at the OPG, to provide for them this minimum wage and to be free of taxes and contributions by example to the German Government. It's not to be delayed because they can't do it. It's to get rid of the payments. It is also proposed to postpone the deadlines for the submission of annual financial reports because it is now a great pressure on bookkeeping services to check out and report workers, for the final final financial reports a large part of their employees cannot come to work because they have no children to leave because kindergartens do not work, schools do not work, do not leave children to whom they are left and are simply in big problems and the proposal is to postpone the deadlines for the submission of annual financial reports and thus help both the economy and this company. And of course, when it comes to agriculture and food production, I guess it's finally clear to all of us that without producing food for self-sufficiency in the production of food, we can't have security in the country and we can't even have a perspective that we have a healthy population. And it is certain that in the context of this it is necessary to organise the spring seed and that it is good that others have worked on agricultural pharmacies, however, it has also been forgotten about mechanic workshops for repairing agricultural machinery and trade in spare parts because spring crops cannot be seeded without spare parts. The belt cracks, the filter needs to be changed, somewhere it has to be bought, so I suggest that it is built into measures and certainly when it comes to agricultural land, that every hectare should be sown, that it is now an opportunity for the stock reserves to contract production for the needs of the population of the Republic of Croatia, and not that it happens to us to run out of supplies, to run out of food, and that we do not have enough in wheat, corn, soy, sugar, and milk that I do not speak, so it is a big problem in pig farming, beef and certainly that the government must set out more concrete measures that it is not only enough to postpone the payment of the leases and concessions but that for this year all agricultural producers should be free of the rent and concessions and release of all taxes and duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181272	Thank you very much. Now we're going to take a break as we have announced because we announced that at 12:00 there will be a vote on all the laws discussed so far and then the sequel is at 12:00. It's 11:21 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181273	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181274	Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to express my admiration to my fellow health colleagues who are fiercely fighting the coronaryvirus and what Agent Pernar said today in the face of all those workers, all those healthcare professionals, doctors, nurses, who are now on the first battlefield of the battle against the coronaryvirus. At this time when various self - called prophets appear, Agent Pernar is one of them, one of which we have here and I think it's clear to say from this pay phone. Because wanting to solve his own vanity, he sends messages that can seduce the citizens. There's no scientific evidence that vitamin C treats coronaryvirus. That's what colleagues from China say who have the highest tradition of folk medicine. So don't listen to the charlatans who, in this danger now in front of us, only want to survive politically. And that's the message I want to send from this pay phone. Vitamin C does not treat the coronary virus. Unfortunately, my colleagues as hematologist can't help, but perhaps some of the other colleagues in this assembly can. What we see now is that we're very close to catching this outbreak by the neck and starting to break it. However, what I would like to appeal to the government is that the measures they are now bringing to the rescue of the economy must be simple, understandable and easy to implement. It is therefore necessary to reduce this bureaucratic form to a minimum, for example, a debt of 200 kuna, is a disqualification element for the payment of aid or a postponement of a tax liability and it does not make any sense in practice. I ask Minister Maric to take care of it. There is also a big problem with measures to preserve jobs related to micro-enterprises because you have both workers and employers in micro-enterprises in the same person. We've closed down green markets and fish shops, which will be with small farmers who don't have secure entry into the trade chains. In order to be successful, we must be creative, and above all brave at these moments and what the Government must know that, besides cutting on the spending side of the budget, it must pump up the funds in consumption. The creation of an atmosphere of economic uncertainty will lead to a huge decline in personal consumption of citizens, and in this we will witness very quickly. Companies that currently have completed production capacity or delivered goods in a month will have a triple problem, a problem with new deals, a problem with the payment of claims and a major drop in margins. We're going to have a problem that's going to spread chain to different parts of the economy that are working at the moment. This is an ideal time to develop Internet trade with goods and services, invest in education, marketing campaigns, provide vouchers for advertising services and products of companies and crafts that can do their business in large numbers via telephone and internet. Any state aid to employers is welcome, but what needs to be taken care of is that the minimumer that is now current is not the best measure that will lead to the preservation of jobs. Minister Aladrovic, instead of through active employment policy measures, should have gone through the Employment Support Act because these support would be based on workers' salaries. The criteria for the implementation of the subsidy must apply to all employers instead of employers in certain activities. Many of the shortages of workers who will follow due to the abolition of many passenger transport lines will have even greater problems in production and will not be able to get to work neatly, leading to further problems in production. The right to a subsidy should be given to all those who sent workers on hold, not those who sent workers to the use of annual holidays. Therefore, I call on Minister Aladrovic to redefine these measures, and do not listen to false prophets like this to the citizens. /incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181275	We're going to the last debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181276	Thank you, President HS, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS and Democrats Club, I would like to thank once again everyone who works at the National Civil Protection Staff, all hospital workers, in the public health system and should say that part of the measures proposed by the Government and on which we will vote tomorrow is good and that it is assessed by economies solid, not to say any other word is there still things that entrepreneurs are not satisfied with and are asking for further talks and improvement of these measures, and some of these measures, here we heard today and from opposition representatives what they should be referring to. We at HSS have said that the measures are late and are not concrete enough and that we are right to say this here are almost 20,000 people who are newly registered as unemployed on HZZ, meaning they are late with the measures, and representatives of the Association of wood growers of the Republic of Croatia who, most of them, were already in the end of January and in early February warned about this, on February 6th they also sent a letter to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Economy to react urgently because the market relations with their customers have been violated, that orders will cancel and that there will be cancellations and that there will be no power to withstand this pressure and here is a result of that, among these 20,000 new unemployed, is also part of the wood industry although here with these new measures will try to preserve every job in the Republic of Croatia, which we welcome, and it is certainly not good that these 20,000 who remainunemployed , so here we call on the government to figure out that 80 000 for the measures and forthem. And at this point, we're all talking about the need to produce food, about agriculture, and I would say that, I've said it more than once, I'm going to say it's a matter of national security. Because if we're not self-sufficient in food production, then we can't even be sovereign in our own space, then we can't guarantee the quality of life and the nutrition of our own population. And why I point out this is the warning that we have repeatedly pointed out that our deficit in agriculture is huge, over a billion and 200 million euros is a deficit, we import more than we export. And the other day, and the news that scared me, Germany stopped the export of medical equipment and protective equipment to the Republic of Croatia because they estimated it needed their health care system. What happens tomorrow when Italy, Spain, France, with agricultural products? We're gonna run out of food. And that's why it's good to talk about food production in the Republic of Croatia, so it's good to make sure that every hectare shines at this point in the Republic of Croatia. And I would remind myself of the non-implementation of the Agricultural Land Act, there are no tenders, lease and concession contracts stand out and must be found and modeled how to shine each hectare to extend the validity of these contracts until further notice, as well as to free farmers from the payment of leases and concessions in 2020. It's nice to hear here that everyone agrees that the markets are a window into the world for our little OPGs and yes, they should be opened. No, we didn't have to lock them up for us from HSS, we could have designed models like we did with the chain of commerce to approach one by one, to hold the gap, and we're out in the open, certainly our O.P.G.s and manufacturers wouldn't get hurt. And I want to publicly congratulate the city of Vinkovci here who has partly opened a market with closed those adventure homes that he has given to use our OPGs and thus made it possible to directly communicate our small manufacturers with its customers because not all the frames provide Internet sales and organise delivery. Well, speaking of which, so we need to open up markets urgently and ensure of course that there is no infection, that there is a safe distance, but what we need to look for, and this is what our agricultural producers are looking for, part of them organized to sell their products through mail. Why should Croatian mail not give up postage on these food packages that our manufacturers send to their customers? Here, it is one of the proposals where these measures could be corrected and it would certainly help our small OPGs, not to close post offices like they did in Baranja, so here in Brod-Posavina County is the closed area office in Slavonski Kobaš, in Zapolje, it is not the way to preserve agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181277	This led us to the end of free debates. Debate No. 7, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181279	Dear Mr. President, today my word goes to all those workers who are on hold today, who have problems getting paid by the state to deliver to employers because the state is not sure how it will control the payment of support to employers for subsidising part of the salary. Only in March will the support be used by around 96,000 employers for 560,000 workers, the state will land an additional 2.4.24 billion kuna for employers on their jury accounts in March 2.27 billion kuna, somewhere in April or May. But whether all workers will receive a grant from the state is a big question. As is the question of what will happen to those workers whose salaries are lower than minimum wage because the government has forgotten that there is a clause in the minimum wage law that collective bargaining can contract a minimum wage that is 5% lower than the one prescribed by the state. Employers all the time argue that this is aid to them, not to workers, which shows that the way the government went was completely wrong because workers needed to be paid those funds to their current accounts. There are many ways for employers to throw out this good, good government method and a good instrument that the government has tried to preserve jobs, so let's say some entrepreneurs are taking funds from the state for workers they've already fired. Some entrepreneurs pay only the salary they receive from the state, although they are able to pay full wages. Some entrepreneurs of the support paid by the state to share between themselves and workers, some entrepreneurs taking funds from the state and for long-term workers, it is because the state did not control how much it pays but simply disbursed funds to the jury accounts of employers without a contract and what is now seen in the HZZ is a general chaos that simply does not know who the funds are paid to, and on the other hand, since this has led to problems in the payoffs, there are still employers who applied in March for this support, and from the HZZ they have not received any response, whether they will receive support or not. Some entrepreneurs are pressuring workers to sign an addendum to a labour contract that will contract wages at the height of the state because they will be reduced by hours, although they will work full-time. And some workers are also doing what, some entrepreneurs are doing what they've been doing and so far, scaring workers that they can't quit because they're going to have to give the state back the amount of support. Labour and pension system Minister Aladrovic told the unions that he expects them to have a partner relationship and ask them to provide concrete information on malfeasances and irregularities if they have them. Instead of the government controlling how our money is spent, because these are the money of all of us who are paying in the budget, Minister Aladrovic is asking trade unions to control what is happening in companies. Another idea that has now come to light is that the state's inspectorate is going to control the fund's payments to workers. However, it has been forgotten that the state inspectorate has no jurisdiction over these payments because it is a state support and the inspectorate has no ability to control it, it should be controlled by the HZZ, and they have neither the capacity nor the people who could control such a large number of payments and the support that go, which goes to the workers. Obviously, it was the best way to transfer funds to the jury accounts of workers because that way nobody should be controlled because they know who, who they're going to. The current statement lastly that a list of employers receiving support will be published is a good move, however, it will not solve the problem because it is a question of who will check employers and who will find out whether the support has been used correctly. It's back to the courage of the workers, and we know that the workers in that part are in a subordinate position, and this is just saying that this idea that was good at the end will be born into bad. The government's actions. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181280	Here you go, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181281	Thank you, Vice President. Here, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of HSS and Democrats first and foremost, one big round of applause for all public health, hospitals, police and all those who are on the frontline of Covid-19 disease, but here I want to ask you to give a big round of applause to both our peasants and our farmers who are currently on the fields that are here, the most demanding work this year is in front of them, and that is the spring seed. And I think they deserve one big round of applause because we all agree that without food production, we can't guarantee the nutrition of our own population then not even provide health for all the residents of our beautiful. And that is why one round of applause for them, and in particular a round of applause for agriculture, we see that we are more concerned about agriculture than our Government and our minister because these days, Commissioner of the European Commission for Agriculture Mr Wojciechowski invited all agriculture ministers to be more active in protecting and helping their agricultural producers and offered them new EUR 6 billion to support rural development that can go up to EUR 17 billion for the part that has not yet been withdrawn. They will provide them with these funds to support rural development and ask our ministers and also our minister to program new measures and hurry with the application to existing measures because there are funds. So my question to the HSS is whether it does anything to our government and our minister to withdraw these funds and to allow farmers to survive this crisis and to sow their fields and produce food for all of us. Where are we? Are we doing anything? Recently, about half an hour ago, Minister Maric said that family farms have the opportunity to also use measures to report to banks for liquid assets and bridge their difficulties and report them a little, so he invites them. Well, that's exactly what we said from HSS, that the OPG can hardly get funds in the bank because it's mostly too complicated or difficult for banks to accept as business partners and we suggested that it go with direct support to the village and agriculture because it's at least through these measures the government has received agriculture. The minister allocated some 52 million kuna to support the agricultural plus 2.5 million for the intervention ransom. So we ask how to help the producers of flowers that are in big problems, who had no one to sell their products, which is with wine producers who did not sell before Easter almost one butte of wine and how it will help to shine every hectare of agricultural areas in Croatia. And here's an extra these days both yesterday and yesterday and 14 days ago, one elemental accident, the cold probably took most of this year's fruit to our fruit farmers. We know that the funds for the elemental disasters are very little in the planned state budget, so the question is whether or not farmers will be able to help at all, so here are the fruit farmers in the big problem. Not to say that it is late with those announced 20 storage facilities throughout the Republic of Croatia, and this was necessary to store our products of agricultural producers, and here again on behalf of the HSS, if it were crazy for us to close markets and directly sell our family agricultural holdings on markets, then here our suggestions were accepted and markets opened, but we now see that stricter measures have been put in place to operate and sell agricultural products on markets than in trade chains. Obviously, this government and the minister are not about the agricultural production of food and our agricultural producers, but here are the imports and import lobbys. Yesterday, I have said to Minister Beroš that it is a shame for Croatia that we do not have our own production of protection masks and equipment for the protection of healthcare professionals and that it can and must be organised with domestic crafts, entrepreneurs and owners who have reported themselves and that this production can also be provided and developed in the Republic of Croatia. It is crucial, therefore, to preserve jobs, to buy our home, to buy Croatian, to enable our agricultural producers to shine, to produce not now 3 or 6 months further, 3 to 5 years we must design models of financing agricultural production and ensure sufficient food for all the population in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181282	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181283	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Miranda Mrsic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181284	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. At the time of the crown of the crisis, its health arm slowly gives way to the economic consequences of this crisis, we are increasingly wondering what our planet's economic picture will look like in the next few years, coffees will be consequences for jobs, for the reception of workers, how we will behave in everyday life. During such discussions, the main topic in Croatia became the closure of 30 restaurants and cafe bars. Out of the 100s, how they adapted to the Ministry of Tourism's instructions and launched a job in preparing and issuing food adapted to such conditions. Such insensitivity and haughtiness, the real orgy of the inspectors that we could follow at the closing of the restaurant and the reasoning from the mouth of the chief state inspector is unrecorded, the unmarked insult of every man in our country. The High Table Inspector showed his face, his party's face and his inspectorate. In this debate, I'm not going to look too far at his character and work from the far '80s because it doesn't make sense, I'm not going to spend too much on the rating of the person who was the first chief inspector to tell the current inspector that she wouldn't even let him be his driver. This is the party's problem, the HDZ problem they have set up by Andrija Mikulic as chief inspector. In recent days, the Republic of Croatia has been buzzing about the closures of restaurants for bizarre reasons at the time of the economic crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronaryvirus. And just the case in Zagreb with a high table on the public surface deserved a bigger and more significant, more significant public view. The funny words of the chief state inspector are that their goal is not to go repressively towards entrepreneurs, but respect for the law and protection of health are basic and primary tasks, with Mikulic saying that this high table has put anyone's health at risk. For 3 days, Mikulic has been thinking and thinking about how to justify the conduct of the inspection, and he cannot find an excuse for the inspector's actions. I warned from this pay phone that there would be problems in the functioning of a large and massive repressive apparatus like a state apparatus, like a state apparatus because it's too big a bulky apparatus to be efficient. Then HDZ assured us that inspections would work better, that they would be at the service of entrepreneurs to correct mistakes. We assured them that they were on the wrong path because with the setting of this system they would lead to even greater problems in the work of inspections. At this point, we don't know who's right, he gave the state inspectorate right, or he's right, the tourism ministry. The state inspectorate was not founded to work better than to have one person, Andrija Mikulić, head of the inspectorate. The chief state inspector found himself at the scene of the highest political power just because he's in HDZ. The HDZ leaders again sent the citizens a very clear message that they do not want to oppose corruption and nepotism. The new inspection system has not solved the problems encountered by the state inspectorate. However, the coronary epidemic has shown that these, these problems are very, very big. Namely, yesterday the restaurants were reopened, and they were opened because Plenkovic realized the growing problem ordered Mikulic to handle how you know and can handle it. And what changed in three days? Nothing but a direct order from the prime minister to the state inspector. If the closure was by law, the prime minister's order is a direct violation of the law, and if it wasn't by law then there should be sanctions in the state inspectorate and there should be a change. Andrija Mikulić is just another one in a row of typical HDZ personnel, from the affair of artisans, then the problem with enrolling real estate into the property card to questioning the media about the employment of his wife in HZ Pručni konstružni žbe and the influence of Andrija Mikulić in the student centre. But all this is not a problem for Prime Minister Plenkovic when he appointed him as chief state inspector. I warned from this pay phone that in the countries of liberal democracy, it is not common for a repressive machine to be a person with a party card and so high in the political hierarchy. The latest affairs of the Chief State Inspector raise the question of what we have always asked of this speaker to answer his competences for the Chief State Inspector and to ask if he can manage such a large system. It's time to resign and leave the handling of a non-partisan and competent person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181285	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181286	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181287	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues. On the request of the Party of Democrats on Mikulić's usurpation of the Student Centre in Zagreb, one who should not have answered, but no voice, or messages from those who should have answered those questions, which is Andrija Mikulić and Blaženka Divjak. In response, the rehabilitation manager of the Student Centre Mirko Bosnjak, the man who placed Andrija Mikulić in the post with the help of Milijan Brkić. However, reactions came from many sides, especially those coming from students who in turn thanked the opening of this topic of usurpation of the student centre by the HDZ branch of Pestnica. And this way I thank all the students for their appearance and for, but also for new contributions to life under the crown and walking affair. From these numerous new contributions to the character and part of Andrija Mikulić, a particularly interesting topic was opened that was common in almost half of the students' reports. Forced, chaotic and disorganized emigration of students or their personal belongings, books and techniques from the Student Home "The Flower Village". Namely, what's this about? When the earthquake rocked Zagreb a month ago, Mikulić and his students from the student centre offered more quickly to Prime Minister Plenkovic that he would solve the problem of accommodation of the disabled Zagreb in a way that they would settle in the student centre. And at first glance, it seemed humane and very correct. The question arises, however, why were students being moved instead of opening doors to empty hotels in Zagreb that will be empty for a long time or where all of them are very empty apartments owned by the City of Zagreb where four family members could move in, not small, students' rooms. Now that they give in to measures that limit the movement in the country, the students begin to return to their dorm rooms, and that's where the problems arise. The students have nowhere else to go, and they don't know where their stuff is. Why is all this happening at the student centre adopted by Andrija Mikulić and the HDZ branch of Pestenica? For a very simple reason. Politically appointed incompetent and similar who do not respond to their Minister and Minister Divjak but to political mentor Andrija Mikulić, and when you have mentors such as Andrija Mikulić, then it is clear, the interest is first but not the interest of students but of selected teams from the Pestice, Mikulić and his godfather family party gates. And there's still one big question left. What's the student choir doing? Did they buy sinacurams, small gifts, or promises of a better future? He didn't hear them, or see them here from this pay phone, and I call for them to come forward and say their opinions, say their opinions about this affair that's been going on for a long time at the student center. And when you won't, I'll ask the following questions to Andrija Mikulic. How did you hire a student centre member of the HDZ Pescenica, who is now another man of the institution, as assistant for the work of students, that man in life never had any contact with the students of the University of Zagreb? How did you hire a HDZ member who was the holder of the election list on the Local Committee of Preputjevec? Did you order the employment of a person who was high on the HDZ election list in the Vukomerec elections? What was your role in hiring a person without working experience in a place that requires internal rules? Who and how did he hire your daughter-in-law at the University of Zagreb? What kind of shop was it with one of the University of Zagreb's proctors? Is it possible that in return you gave the student center a warrant to hire some relative of the vice president mentioned? Who is and how did he hire your father-in-law's son? I also ask Minister Divjak's question given that you received all this information about employment at the Student Centre in letters from employees and students, why did you do nothing? How is it possible that the business of the Student Centre is how to boast the sanity manager Mirko Bošnjak for 24 years in plus with historical results, and you are unable to complete the recovery. Are you watching Mikulic's back and hiring or is it something bigger? This step of mine today was not that the Ministry of Science and Inspectorate protected the legality of work and prevented party employment and obvious nepotism. And for the end of messages to Prime Minister Plenkovic, the HDZ president, who is more interested in the party than the interests and functions of the state. Do you need more input on the character and work of Andrija Mikulić for the replacement of the chief inspector the selection of a new, professional and non-partisan chief state inspector. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181288	It is now up to counterpart Miranda Mrsic on behalf of the HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181289	Dear colleagues. The elections are coming, so here we were witnessing that unnamed sources from HDZ released a story and pictures from boar hunting in which one of the main shooters was Chief State Inspector Andrija Mikulić. Two weeks ago, I spoke from this pay phone about the inadmissible behaviour of the inspectorate at the head of Andrija Mikulic. I remind you, I said and I repeat, the high-level inspector was closing restaurants, and because the tables were placed on the public surface, which he only did because he's doing a job that he can't do. And after pressure from the public, especially entrepreneurs, the HDZ president ordered his party counterpart to urgently withdraw an inappropriate decision on the closure of the restaurant when people are fighting for every swear of income. This was the crown proof of the failure of the HDZ project to unite inspection services under the hat of the president of the Zagreb HDZ. In the series of affairs of Andrija Mikulić, a walking affair from HDZ's kitchen followed a case for hiring his wife in the company of the Prussian Building. We also have examples of the employment of Andrija Mikulić's staff in Zagreb Gas and Zagreb Cemeterys, and the crown is all employment in the student centre. And only the fill-up of the property card was justified for ignorance almost in the style of party colleague Lovre Kuščević, that there is so much thanks to God he forgot something to enter into the property card. It was employed by hand and hat so that the Pestice personnel networked the student centre, Mirko Bošnjak, the rehabilitation manager of the student centre, comes from the HDZ, and is known among the associates by his statement, I was appointed here by the HDZ party, and if you have anyone to intervene for you, let me know. Mario Zupan also comes from the HDZ Pestice, Dragan Krasic, president of the Sanacial Council of the Student Centre is famous for being best man of Andrija Mikulić, Pera Semen is a friend of Andrija Mikulić who hired his wife in his company, and Kristijan Rasic, Marija Lecter, Ivan Tomičić and Marina Estiš are employees of the Student Centre all of the HDZ branch of Pestenica. What's in common with all these people? Together, Andrija Mikulić, employment without a public tender, is an inadequate qualification for jobs, it would say credible. I again urge the president of the HDZ and the minister of education to join in clearing up this mud at the Student Centre. You didn't answer the call for the media, or the speech I gave in this House. You are not responding to an open letter from the University of Zagreb Student Assembly in which students point to poor management of this institution and unsustainable status at the student centre. I urge the students to speak out loud to the prime minister what he doesn't want to read if he doesn't want to hear or see. Dear students, say what is infuriating you at the student centre, respect the social distance, but do not lose the desire to fight for a better, fairer and fairer Croatia, and the student centre is a picture of Croatia at the moment. And why does Andrija Mikulić have so much trouble with the HDZ root example she is? The answer is perfectly simple, the HDZ is a large and bulky, repressive state apparatus such as the State Inspectorate, rather than an independent and experienced expert, delivered to the hands of an unprofessional, unsuitable and conflict-laden party. Andrija Mikulić is everything the chief state inspector shouldn't be. The chief state inspector is the best protected face of HDZ, a party whose undecided President Davor Stier has repeatedly said that the main problem of HDZ is nepotism and corruption, and by placing and now by keeping Andrija Mikulic after the series of affairs, Andrej Plenkovic shows what it means credible for him. Under Plenkovic, HDZ remained faithful to its way of corruption and nepotism. There is no better Croatia as long as characters like Andrija Mikulić can be in positions they should not be in. His choice for the state inspector was a twilight of wit, and his further retention in this place was a purely political sunflower. The election of dear citizens is coming, look and see who can ensure a better future, because with HDZ there is no future, because the cheek has long lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181290	The position of HSS and Democrats will be Mr. Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181291	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's since today is a difficult topic, seriously I'm going to take it a little bit more seriously, but not to the end unseriously. I'll start my free speech with a joke, and jokes come out of the people and people through them say what they're actually thinking. So in one village, Mr. Mujo lived, so young he didn't like to go to school, but he knew how to do it, and so one day he goes to a sprinkler in the village spraying on the road, on the houses, on the gardens, on people's fields, it was strange, so they called the police. He's being asked by a cop, is Mr. Mujo, why are you spraying it around? He says, "I'm crumbling on a crocodile." He says, but Mr. Mujo here doesn't have a crocodile calling a cop surprised. Well, of course not when I practice. That's what the cop said, and then I'll make it mandatory for everyone to spray because it wouldn't be good for the crocodiles to come in here and eat our kids. It didn't last long, the entire village was buying a crocodile product from Muja, spraying everything along and across, even the crisis situation headquarters that provided the measures and instructions on the implementation and monitoring of the sprays that everyone had to adhere to, would have been established, despite the fact that they would not get major penalties. From the sale of this spraying agent, Mujo became a tycoon, and in addition to that, he received a medal for child protection, even at the entrance to the village, a board of Muja’s village, a friend of the children. Every day at 2:00 p.m., headquarters announced where and when and who was eaten by a crocodile in the villages. It's someone who's been smudged by Mujo, destroying corn, killing a cow, killing a child with a strange disease, but all of a sudden it was much less harmful than a crocodile eating children. And no one should have doubted anything, let alone asked and explored, for it was unquestionable that no crocodile had been seen in the village since a thorough splash was seen. Every night the villagers went out to the fence and clapped Muji who solved the great crocodile problem in their village. HDZ headquarters destroyed the coronary virus within record time. And how could they not if they destroyed the entire state, the immune law, sold out the most important and most valuable assets of the Republic of Croatia still does so. And I hope that what we discussed today, and that's the choice of a new state attorney, the state's chief attorney, is that it's also going to be an issue she's going to be dealing with so that we finally find out who sold it and for what money. Of course, this is a joke. Long live headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181292	The eighth debate, the club of representatives of HSS and Democrats and colleagues Vlaho Orepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181293	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected fellow citizens, if I have learned anything in this short time of politics, it is that from bad or worse politics is only the lack of politics. We don't see that politics every day and we hear every day and it matches everything that's worth in this country. Every day I listen to a policy based on the personal discrediting of a political opponent, unargumented, brutally, certainly, it is one indifference both human and political that is happening in a political space. Every day we listen to this, can you imagine Bero being your prime minister, do you know who Cresho Beljak is, that's the kind of thing I listen to. Well, my people, Bernardic is the president of the main opposition party, and Krešo Beljak is the mayor of the most successful city in Croatia, chosen by 70% of his fellow citizens. And he is the president of the only party in Croatia, the only party in Croatia that has the full political depth of that Croatian identity at the moment and that is the truth. Whether she agrees with me personally or not. The question why has no one ever wondered why a prime minister could be someone who didn't lead his own party's branch before becoming prime minister? We have these facts, because he was wondering could the prime minister be someone who is at the head of a party who is accused of crimes and who is now in power only because of co-operation with a highly compromised Bandic? That's the facts. Why doesn't anyone wonder if someone like that can be prime minister? Are we going down to that level? Or to catch a more difficult topic than the crown, because it is obvious that we are in the autumn and lack of food supply, or perhaps hunger, because we will not have anything to supply ourselves with, is it possible to be the prime minister of someone who is at the head of a party who has made it possible for us to lack 50% of the milk, which allowed us to lack 50 or 60% of meat, fruit and vegetables 50 to 60%, which allowed us to import 3.3 billion of something that we don't produce, and we can produce. Is that possible, should I strive for such leaders? Is it acceptable for a prime minister to be at the head of a party that has emptied 200 villages in Slavonia? The real question for who did she empty it out for? Who controls the DORH, which has provided a Agrokor, which has allowed us, which has passed the INU, which is responsible because we have 52% of pensions below average, below the level of poverty in the Republic, which has allowed us to have 50% of pensions that are not deserved at all, is that something we should applaud and is that something that we should give a voice to continue to run this society? Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected fellow citizens, what's important is that you take care of who and what he proposes and whether it's someone who suggests it, whether it's even feasible. It's very important at this point recognized because the truth is only what you feel on your own skin and not necessarily what you hear and see. What we feel in our own skin is bad, it hurts. It offends common sense even by feeling it on our own skin. That's why I'm on the side of those who want to change it because I'm aware of the needs of gatherings, gatherings to just remove what brought us into such a situation. I want the work and knowledge to be profitable in this country immediately, I want the reinvestment tax to be abolished immediately, on reinvested funds, I want to reduce taxes or make agriculture and with real production at the moment, immediately but immediately make it profitable. It's the steps, it's the policy we have to deal with. I want to fight for a solidarity society where everyone can learn to heal and be equal before the law, whether they have money for it or not, these are political goals. Simply, these elections will be a sign of movement, non-functional, boastful, wasteful state, HDZ state and the creation of a national Croatian state, that is a fact. That's what we need, and with that goal, we need to gather together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181294	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181295	Now there's Mr. Miranda Mrsic, who will speak in front of the HSS and the Democrats. HSS? Let's go HSS and Democrats, okay. [[Clip incursion: and Democrats]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to report for a statement of opinion, but my colleague Lukacic encouraged me to say a few words about it since I was the first to start making the Employment Employment Law when I was a minister, that I was the minister who first introduced quota employment, that I was the minister who introduced certain penalties to those who didn't hire people with disabilities and then created this fund which was the goal of primarily encouraging the creation of new jobs for people with disabilities, to adapt their jobs, jobs, to enable the opening of protective workshops and to finance their work, their work. And since our employers aren't as up-to-date as European employers that they're full of mouths, full of people with disabilities, but when something needs to be done then they're nothing, this fund has started to fill nicely and this attitude of Mrs. If it wasn't for the program, so it wasn't, it couldn't be spent, whose problem is that? It's not the problem of those who, so it's not the problem of people with disabilities, is they themselves, they can't do it, but the problem of the government, the problem of the resolution ministry that should have encouraged companies to spend that money, which, as it is now, is that the helicopter threw the money and those who need it and don't need it, here should have made the employers use of these, these funds from that fund. And there was a lot of good money in that fund, and what did the government do? She's taken it from people with disabilities, and she'll never give it back to them. So these half a billion went like this. I asked the minister, and there's the secretary of state, to give us company that your money's gone to. And I will withdraw my discussion if those half a billion went to people with disabilities. But I looked at the list, in the first 100 companies that got the biggest money from the state to preserve jobs, there are no companies with people with disabilities, and looking at the structure of these companies is not to expect them to be, they have people with disabilities. In fact, some of them were paying into that fund and you're de facto returning to them now, and you took the weakest ones you could and what HDZ did, he took people with disabilities to buy votes in the elections, and that's the fact now, you can, I know that fellow Lukacic has to do it for party discipline, but be honest with people with disabilities because you, the association, is complaining to you. Maybe those that are under your control don't, but other associations that aren't quite objecting. The public objectes to you. No, at a time of crisis, you don't take those who are the weakest, people with disabilities are at risk on the labour market and those half a billion that have been taken will not save the economy. But it'll destroy that good story we told about hiring people with disabilities. And there's this cruel HDZ trade with elections here because it's only a matter of choice here. You shouldn't have done that. At the moment you put it in the law, I knew you'd do it. But if you had the sense to step on the ball and find the funds somewhere else, you wouldn't have to do that. But clearly, by making the Minister's move, by signing, those funds went up and didn't go to the ones they needed, that's, you're ashamed of what you did. Because you shouldn't have done that, those funds have been there, they've been there for years, and some have been standing because they're the means that allow people with disabilities to be employed that we have little on the labour market anyway. What's wrong with all this is that it's done to the burden of the weakest, HDZ has taken the weakest and it's this shameful trade in elections, Crude trade in elections, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which HDZ leads. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181297	A colleague, a colleague of Mrsic's. We are done taking the stand of the club of representatives in due time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181298	It is now up to Mr Davor Vlaovic who will be the sum of the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181299	Thank you very much, Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, in yesterday's rebalancing, what specifically rang to reduce the funds for the implementation of projects, the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and by more than 30% of the funds, and certainly I have to say on behalf of the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem that we, who really expected a lot of these projects, cannot accept such a reduction in the project implementation in Slavonia. And, hopefully, the government will see that, and these days they're going through Slavonia, that people are going to whistle at them for it. And what has been realised so far, what is crucial, there are no new jobs, there is no increase in living standards and still, as soon as the borders are opened, there is a presence of emigration from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. And what I would also like to point out is that the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection has also been reduced by a budget of 430 million kuna, so there is no money for water supply, water treatment, purification, waste management. And here's yesterday and the day before is the siege situation in the municipality of Davor due to the dump site of Bacanska which, for the second time in 10 days, was a gorilla, that every honor to the firemen of Orebica and Davor who managed to shut it down, but the fact that the air with dense black smoke was terribly polluted, even though the captain and the team there say there was no danger and threat to the population, people were scared and called to the assembly and called the police and all those responsible, were looking for information on why there was a fire, how much garbage was being brought there, where it was being brought from, and reportedly being transported from Split, from Varazdin and all other parts, although it was only a dump for the municipality of Davor and neighbouring municipalities in order to get rid of the wild waste dumps. Also here was yesterday seen and the drop of this polluted water was obviously a huge amount of water spent on the recovery of the fire, and this water pointed out in nearby water streams, in the canals and in the Sava River and it was seen even the dead fish, so today I sent Minister Coric a memo, asking him to send a water inspector and to report to me and the public on the found state of the report. And of course, along with this, certain people should be responsible, and I think the management of the municipal company must go, and I think the head of the community that protects should go on and on and on, and Minister Coric himself has been on this problem for 4 years. We're warning you. And of course, I have to touch agriculture and food production. Here the minister had a video conference and Europe is aware that food needs to be produced, that food production is self-sufficient for its population, and what does the Republic of Croatia do? Nothing, we continue to record the decline in production, nothing is solved through land policy, the law has been passed, the competition is gone, not 50 hectares so far through the lease agreements and concession given to our agricultural producers, but a concession has been transferred to the Forte Nova group and so on. Our agricultural producers cry for agricultural land because there is no production without rounding and no agricultural land there is no food production in the Republic of Croatia. And it's devastating that even this little production, for example in pigs, we now have a terrible problem in our 3 Slavonian counties, here are over 2,500 pigs of fathomers weighing 120 kg, who don't have people to sell to, they're going to have to give away that they don't have any further expense and damage. The minister promised an intervention ransom, something small milk was bought, and what about pigs, what about heroes who also have no one to sell to? How is he going to help the wine sector? Did the wine producers not sell any butts because of this crisis? And imagine, 500 florists in the group expressed dissatisfaction and with the right of only one million kuna support for the production of flowers in Croatia. What are you going to do with a million kunas on 500 producers? Well, that's funny, she better not have given anything. And what is important is that the interpretation that we have referred to the government and the ministry to apply for moratorium for the sale of state agricultural land to foreigners for another three years and we have received word of orality here in the Parliament that the procedure has been launched, but here will be a disbanded parliament, we have no feedback whether the request is really submitted, whether it will be approved or after leaving this government, the foreigners will be able to buy state agricultural land in Croatia because of the inactivity of the minister and the entire government. Here, on behalf of all agricultural producers, I am looking for a special fund to co-finance agricultural production because without it we will not raise food production in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181300	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181301	The next club of MPs is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Miranda Mrsic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181302	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Today is the disbanding of the Parliament, a cruel message to the Zagreb and Zagrebers who, along with a covid-19, were struck by the earthquake, that HDZ had forgotten them and left them to the realtors. By raising hands to enter a new election cycle, HDZ has also shown them and us that his concern for staying in power is most important, not caring for the victims. The HDZ's haste in the elections is losing the right function of the parliament, which should be the voice of the people, not the political market for chairs. And anyone who supports HDZ today should no longer look at the assembly door from Mark's square, let alone ever set foot in this assembly again. It is a catastrophic fact that HDZ and Mayor Milan Bandic started hitting on the clear definition of the Law on the Renewal of Zagreb after the earthquake. It is even sadder that the capital of one EU member has been in ruins for two months now and is nowhere near the recovery of the earthquake, let alone a systematic recovery solution. And the world is following us, even countries with a much smaller level of development reacted more effectively to this threat. After all, if you were my parliamentary representatives and MPs who will actually vote against the renewal of Zagreb today as a doctor with advanced disease, believe me, you would not want me to hit you in departments, you would like a clear diagnosis, urgent recovery and a solution to your health condition. Today on the 57th day after the earthquake Zagreb has no clear diagnosis or completed emergency triage, an even less systematic recovery solution, and the pronunciation of the crown is, we are looking for the best solution are excuses that will not pass even with a small child, and will not pass in Zagreb safely. Show at least a little humanity whether you are aware of all who are now sitting in a comfortable chair that citizens and citizens in the center of Zagreb and epicenter around Markusevic still have no roof over their heads, well live in extremely unstable building facilities, and individual objects are a real threat to anyone who passes by them. Forget about the tourists in Zagreb for a long time. Zagreb will bypass the wide port and it would be even more irresponsible if someone were to get hurt, God forbid someone gets hurt by bricks or shrubs. Dear citizens and citizens, if you have the stomach to follow today's disbandment of the Parliament in front of small screens, this one sad, shameful session of the Parliament, I'll tell you that I'm not sure that your cries will really hear the majority of the Parliament. As a doctor, I can tell you that only a precise surgical cut helps. Here your voice is a precise surgical knife that can remove the malignant political trade that has been an obstacle for years on the way to the development and progress of Croatia. Choose responsibly how you will use your voice to be as precise as possible in removing this political trade. I call upon all those who are in the Parliament today and have moved to the dark side, if there is any power blinking in you do not support the disbanding of the Parliament before we pass the Law on the restoration of the City of Zagreb. Ask the profession, the profession knows, the recovery of Zagreb is not an impossible mission, and with the law of restoration it is targetedly waiting and delaying help for our citizens and citizens. On the other hand, as a doctor, I am responsibly saying that we have not yet entered a phase in which we can safely say that the crown is a pandemic in esophageal. Croatian citizens and citizens are not ready to go to the polls safely, we have many more people in self-insulation who will not be able to fulfil their civic duty. Civil protection headquarters is highly politicised, he no longer has that kind of power, he's part of the PR machine. This is no longer a question of whether someone politically ready to vote or not, this is a question of a reasonable, responsible and human response to the threat that is now ahead of us. We are talking about the health of our people who are the axis of statehood, the sustainability of economic development, we are talking about Zagreb and Zagrebers who must have a clear picture of when and under what conditions their home will be rescheduled. But it doesn't matter if the elections are held in two or three weeks or months or two, let's agree on responsible priorities as the voice of the people in this assembly, let's show the voice of reason to choose a responsible Law on the restoration of the City of Zagreb and quality monitoring of the impact of economic activity, let's not let HDZ fool us again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u181303	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182098	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. First item today: - Proposal for a law on unrated building land, first reading, P.Z. No. 805 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Tourism, for local and regional, regional self-government and for spatial planning and construction. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Dear Mario Banozic, Minister of State Property, is with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182099	The Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. In the process of the conversion of social enterprises, situations took place that basic capital companies estimate buildings and buildings, while land under the building of the land around them was needed for the use of the facilities into core capital. This led to the situation that companies, building owners and buildings of the Republic of Croatia owned land under buildings and around buildings. These situations were most common in the conversion of social enterprises engaged in tourism activities, but there are cases of the conversion of social enterprises in other activities as well. In order to address these problems and regulate property relations in these situations, the Croatian Parliament adopted in 2010 the Law on Tourist and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. The 2010 law adopted a solution for three types of land. First for land under... hotels and facilities for tourist activity or tourist land, second for land in camps, third for remaining unrated building land. The 2010 law also stipulates that the unrated land under the hotel and tourist activity facilities, which have also been assessed, also has the property of a commercial company that has reached the principle of property unity, means the building and land on which it was built, and that the local self-government unit of the owner of the land which is to enter into force of that law was in the spatial plan set out for the tourist purpose and which has not been assessed in the core capital of the company. Such land may be awarded to a commercial company by units of local self-government to a part of the land used for the regular use of the building or to sell to a commercial company at their market price request. Also related to the 2010 camp law, a co-ownership community was established between the Republic of Croatia and the camp company in which the company in the conversion to the core capital of the estimated value of the objects expressed determined that the ratios of co-ownership communities would be determined in proportion to the size of the estimated and unrated land and buildings, and that such companies, by establishing the ratio of the co-ownership community, would have the right to concession for co-ownership of the Republic of Croatia in that camp for no more than 50 years. As regards the remaining unestimated building land, the 2010 law stipulated that the unrated land below the estimated buildings was also owned by companies, which is also the basic principle of property unity, and that the Republic of Croatia is the owner of the remaining unrated land and that the Republic of Croatia will sell to the commercial company at its request the land used for regular use of the building at market price. The decisions of the 2010 law failed to revive and produce effects in practice because for the land that became owned by the unit of local self-government it became a problem of registering ownership rights, and for the camps no concessions for the co-ownership community could be established because of the lack of criteria for assessing the value of buildings and land and therefore no concessions for tourist land or for camps were given. Since there are 76 camps of 14 million and 100 thousand square meters in the Republic of Croatia today which have been subject to the conversion of social enterprises and whose facilities have been evaluated, land under buildings and around buildings has not been estimated to have about 6 million square meters of tourist land today, and that the 2010 law has failed to bring about shifts in the management of that land, a new Bill on Unrated Building Land has been developed. The bill continues with all 2010 solutions that are life-, logical, enforceable and consumable. It is important to stress that the proposal for a law in addition to the material provisions that I will later present to you is precise and specific, so-called. the procedural norms which, in a clear and unequivocal manner, regulate the issues which the body is responsible for adopting a solution on the scope, shape and surface of the tourist land, how it implements the procedure and the basis of which documents, and then the Ministry of State Property provides a solution which determines who owns such land. The proposed legislation also lays down procedural standards for the identification of campsites and parts of the camp in a way that will be decided by the Ministry of State Property in the administrative procedure and sets out exactly the previous procedure for the identification of the camp and who, when and with which documents, initiates administrative procedures related to the tourism land owned by units of local self-government of the bill precisely defines its scope in such a way that it is the area of tourist land identified by a special act as necessary for the regular use of the hotel and tourist settlement, with the fact that this land is also the land on which the building is expressed in the function of the hotel or is located on it or the intended permanent contents which are completed, offer or function of the guests of the hotel or tourist settlement. This precisely determines the border of tourist land owned by units of local self-government and determines that land for regular use covers a wide band around the facility itself, for example. tennis courts, parks, playgrounds, utility facilities, hotel functions, etc. This means that the administrative body which will adopt an administrative act on the establishment of a hotel particle or tourist settlement as the land needed for the regular use of the same shall be given clear instructions that the existing contents should be covered by a building particle. Once the scope of the tourism land has been precisely determined on the above criteria, the draft law stipulates that the land of the company is legally established by the tenants of tourist land owned by units of local self-government, and the price of the lease will be regulated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If the company submits a request for the purchase of the land, the units of local self-government will sell the property to the company at market price. Since tourism land is a special type of building land whose use should ensure further development of tourism as an economic activity, the bill provides that revenues from the rent for tourism land as well as from the sale of tourist land should be shared in such a way that 40% of the income belongs to local self-government units, 20% of the regional self-government unit and 40% of the tourism fund, thus increasing income to local self-government units because the applicable 2010 law provides that those revenues are shared in a way that 20% of income belongs to the local self-government unit, 20% of the unit of the regional (regional) self-government and 60% of the tourism fund. That solution allows units of local, regional (regional) self-government, as well as the tourism development fund to significantly increase and predictable revenues from those they have so far. As regards campsites, the bill and in the camps recognises the property of the property under the estimated facilities, thus fulfilling the principle of unity of real estate. Therefore, the building land in which the building land was built once, but in this way the co-ownership community was broken down is formed by law of 2010 because the company will form new cadastral particles, and which will also be owned by those new particles by a commercial company, and all other land in the camp will be owned by the Republic of Croatia. This avoids the long-term and complicated process of determining the size of co-ownership ratios and then the decommissioning of co-ownership communities, and after such a breakdown of the co-ownership community, the company that owns its own properties will have the legal position of landowners owned by the Republic of Croatia in the same camp. The lease price will also be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation, and the bill provides that that lease price will correct the economic profitability coefficient by county and that, for the camp in the Istrian-Primoral County coefficient of 0.8 for the camp in Zadar and Sibenik-Knin County, the coefficient of 0.9 for the camp in Split-Dalmatia, Dubrovnik-Neretva County with a coefficient of 0.8, for the camp in Ličko-Senj County and the continental County and on the islands coefficient of 0.7. In addition to correcting prices by renting an economic viability coefficient per county, the unit price of the lease will be reduced by 10% for campsites on the islands, and for camps categorized by 4 stars the amount of the unit price of the lease is reduced by 5% and for camps categorized by 5 stars is reduced by 10%. As with tourist land if the company submits a request for the purchase of land in the camp, and the Republic of Croatia will sell the property to the company at market price. Since land in the camps is also a land whose use should ensure further development of tourism as an economic activity, the bill provides that land leases in campsites and sales of such land are shared in a way that 30% of income belongs to the Republic of Croatia and is paid into the state budget, 20% of revenues belong to the local self-government unit, 10% of the regional (regional) unit of self-government and 40% of the tourism fund. A change has been made in relation to the decision of the current 2010 law, which provides that neither income is shared in a way that 20% of income belongs to the local self-government unit, 20% to the regional (regional) self-government unit and 60% to the tourism fund. That solution also allows the state budget, units, the budget of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the Development Tourism Fund to provide significantly greater and predictable revenue than those they have so far. As regards the remaining unestimated building land on which the buildings of other economic purposes which have been assessed are constructed, which are not, which are assessed in the underlying capital of the company without the land on which they were built, the law provides for the recognition of the ownership of the land on which the estimated facility is built. This will form new cadastar particles for that object, thus resolving property legal relations for such an assessment of the facility. If the land around such facilities is not assessed in the underlying capital of the company, it shall be owned by the Republic of Croatia, and the company may result in an administrative act establishing the land necessary for the regular use of the assessment of the building. Based on that act, to form a new particle and buy from the Republic of Croatia such a newly formed particle without conducting a public tender procedure at the estimated value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182100	I thank the minister. Six replicas, first mate of the coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, of course it is commendable that this recorded problem is going to be resolved, but we have some doubts about the proposed solution. Personally, as an agent coming from Istria County, I have a serious doubt about this coefficient, as we have said, economic profitability per county. Thus, the entrepreneurs from Istria County will pay double, pardon 50% higher fee compared to the entrepreneur from Cres or Lošinj who are very profitable tourist destinations. I believe it's a discriminatory solution that is not well-founded in the bill. And another problem I would like to point out to you regarding Article 4(4) which speaks about the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. I think you went too much in favour of the Republic of Croatia, and too much to the harm A unit of local self-government, and I suggest you consider it until the second reading. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182102	Minister? In the end, say do you want to respond to the replica, or are you going to do it all together?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182103	I'll answer everything together, and in the end this one when I hear other questions in the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182104	Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182105	Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this law definitely solves the problem of unrated construction land by me. The area of the camps is approximately 14,100,000 m2 and that is 76 campsites. For years, trading companies engaged in trade, engaged in tourist activities used camp land for their activities, did not pay any rent or concession, and how much damage was done to the state budget and the investment cycle and was it done knowingly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182106	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182107	So just from what we have concluded, it means in this period until 2010, until the law was passed, it is evident that we have had the use of RH's assets from which the Republic of Croatia had no concrete benefit. The solution that was adopted in 2010 is clearly that a solution that was not passed was not viable and therefore we have this amendment to the law today. It will be the biggest damage if today, or several months in this reading, we do not have a solution in which we will solve this situation not only for the Republic of Croatia, but for all the future investments that must happen, because we know that in these same camps, investment is necessary in the same tourist facilities with the aim of raising the quality and accommodation units and the quality of the tourist offer at all. So I think the model we've just suggested, which I just suggested is very good and will just contribute to solving all of the problems that you've just said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182108	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182109	Thank you very much. We appreciate the efforts to try to solve this problem, the problem is not simple. If the problem were simple, I'm sure you'd have tried to solve it before and this law is the result of all the knowledge you've had since 2010. One of the big problems is finding building particles. You, in accordance with the Law on Spatial Editing, a building particle which here, the law is based here to actually establish a building particle and thus establish land. That's his base. Now, you can determine the land used for the regular use of the house, you can determine according to a plan based on Article. 159. The law on spatial planning and that's what you're transferring there. And now the question is, who's going to decide? What's the suggestion? Because sometimes when you determine a particle that's only for regular use of the building, you'll get too little. If they plan, you'll get something because it's the point of getting it for development and what about when the request is going to be bigger? It's something that needs to be defined more closely by second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182110	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182111	At the very presentation I said that this law essentially defines what it is even tourist land, which will be borders, so that's basically the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182112	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182113	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we have 1410 ha of land covered by camps. I would like to know, I would actually call this law a law on the possibility of buying companies or the owner of camps of state land or in the case of a hotel land units of local administration. You stated in this explanation that the state is revenue from the current prices of the rental camps 31 million kuna if I saw well. You don't really mention how much the government budget's revenue is expected but not in the case of a new lease that's going to be bigger than in the case of sales, I just think this law is meant for camp owners to buy land on which the camps are located because I just think it's the hidden intensity of this law, that's my opinion, if I'm wrong, make me understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182114	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182115	Well, it doesn't necessarily have to be sold, I also suggested. Here is the tendency to rent a long-term lease that would create the owner's faith in future investments and enable them to invest the facilities themselves. Whether it will sell at market price, i.e. I stress, the market value estimated at that moment, that depends on the owner, so in this case on the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182116	Comrade Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182117	Thank you very much. Minister, this law has been waiting for Croatia for 25 years because it is dodging a 25-year anarchy. He may be and he is the basis for Croatia's renaissance but I am interested in the bill that was in the public debate 8 months ago. in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 21st price was highlighted in 12 kn for the rental of campsites, none of the interested parties proposed amending that article in suggestions and which were presented in a public debate and yet some invisible hand wrote that the price was not in the law but was determined by the Government by a regulation. Let us imagine the VAT Act where it would say that the rate determines by the Government by a regulation, the Taxation Act that also determines by the Government by a regulation or the Real Estate Taxation Act where tax rates will be determined by the Government by a regulation. It wouldn't be convenient for this price that was 12 kn and that's the most important element here to be the subject of the debate and to come up with a price that is appropriate and not that, instead of 12 kn, the government determines 6 kn, then it won't be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182118	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182119	In this case, the Ministry of Tourism, which is in contact with tourist entities and the proposal for a regulation, or for the price of land to be defined by a regulation, is now based on the resolution of the Ministry of Finance, which is being carried out when assessing the land and what might be in this case if the price is significantly lower than what the market is, the European Commission could be considered as support and for this very reason is being done in parallel to a regulation that would be defined by an analysis, an assessment of land in each of these counties in each of these counties that I have listed in the estimated work of camps or tourist land, will try to create one model that will be defined by a regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182120	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague, Macar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182121	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. It is certainly good that this law be passed more because we are witnessing that what we expected to be done is not done according to the existing 2010 law. It's especially good that it's not going to concessions anymore, but it's being leased because we see that it hasn't come to life. I will look back on that part of the bill that prescribes the way the rent or sale of the camp owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is that the Republic of Croatia belongs to 30%, the units of local self-government 20%, the area 10 and 40 of the Tourism Development Fund. It's good to go to the 40th Tourism Development Fund, but I certainly ask you to reconsider the relationship between the local self-government units because I think they should. from that part to get more. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182122	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182123	Excuse me if you could just repeat the question, it wasn't clear, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182124	He can't repeat the question, then he won't, then you solve it, well, he can, thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I'm opening a debate, and first of all, it's the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists and Honorable Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182125	Thank you very much. Dear ministers with their co-workers, colleagues and colleagues this Proposal for a Law on Unrated Building Land defines certain things, but there is a lot of ambiguity. Of course when we talk about unrated building land, when we talk about camps, when we talk about the tourist purposes of this land that is already being used, of course we need to discuss it with caution because it's simply worth the land of the Republic of Croatia and of course I have a few objections here, especially about this bill, to divide the assets from the sale of land. 40% of local self-government units have increased this compared to the previous ones, however, making the county 20%, so the county, and now that it is given in the country's concessions, the counties do not care about kuna because the counties are anyway a flow water heater and pests of the development of the Republic of Croatia, which the prime minister himself admitted at the election dinner when he said HDZ had not won in the election units he won, where they were in power, had not received enough votes because people had moved out. Which says the county's a problem. Therefore, this money going to county 20% should be transferred to local self-government units, because local self-government is the one that needs infrastructure, sewerage, drainage, plumbing, they're the ones who pay for asphalting, roads, the adoption of spatial plans. Most of the means of costs are on units of local self-government, and this would also decentralise these funds in fact be that money, as well as tourism funds for tourism development, I don't even know how it works. We also have a local opportunity to promote tourism in a much better way. And as far as the county is concerned, I think it should be 0%, because the counties have also caused problems, they operate in my Split-Dalmatian County, for example, for maritime good or for simple coalitions. For example, in the Split-Dalmatia County, the coalition between the Civil Party of Mr Kerum and HDZ is because of Ben. Benes are usually known to you as Split's salary, so concessions remember the Brač concessions. So around this land we must be careful and of course we do, and I also did not define the price by the government regulation, and I think that the price should bring this body in a way that we should finance because there is a possibility of corruption. There is a possibility of an agreement, as is the case with us, to prevent it. I'm here for this area to be settled because it's a large number of hectares, i.e. m2 of significant land to be arranged and in a way to function. However, when we talk about these things, there must always be one, and when you give a solution, you offer a solution, you give it in two readings which is correct, however when we talk about our public good, about what the Croatian state owns, of course the triba look and in the direction of going into the undertaken in this case of tourism, to go into the development of tourism we are still a tourist state, but I have a certain one here, and that's exactly what I'm saying, certain, I'm looking at it a little harder. For what? Problematicly, it has to be problematicd because whenever it comes to public good there are mostly manipulations. Here I am, still disgusted by the way the Government of the Republic of Croatia acts in cases here's an example we have our public institutions, we have a river Krka i.e. The Krka National Park has named, here is Dujic, who also, why I would give him 20%, the man who pressured Minister Coric to appoint a lady who has two party cards and is not a minister and is not a minister. Even the judicial body is the i.e. There's a solution to the court that the contest wasn't conducted, he canceled it, so here's the inspection report. Because the solution to the inspection is that, one chief inspectorate, it's against the law to appoint the current director. So why would I trust this government, why would I trust the county to give that money to either the Split-Dalmatia County, or to the county where Pharaoh Dujic.../incomprehensible/... where Pharaoh Sanader, Boban, who destroyed those counties. I believe that we are decentralising this money because what they have done is only with Mrs. Zmijanović, who has been violated by the Law of Defence for the appointment of the Krk National Park, this Krka, and has been appointed as a person with two party cards. And the inspectorate he's headed on right now is this HDZ couldn't get it out. I am sorry that there is no Josip Djakic here to also say that this is a way of acting and respecting the Law on Croatian Defence. But in this law, we have to do everything we can to keep the county from going zero percent, to go all the way, to most local self-government. Local self-government is the key to development of the Republic of Croatia, and the key and brake of development is the county. And that's why these 20% tribunes should be taken off, because these are the Pharaohs that the local leaders depend on. We need to know that it's a flow water heater, the county's a flow water heater, and we still have them with these decentralised funds that go to school, health care, in the end, and we don't have health services, and the school is in ruins. I'm talking about Dalmatian counties where I come from, about the way we're appointed to institutions that should protect our wealth like national parks. So I think that here the ministers show up, here I'm giving you a proposal to the county zero percent, and that for this for tourism development and it's even, and the units of local self-government are 80% of the assets of the sale of that land is that the units of local self-government are the ones that and the leaders of their tribune to relieve them of the mayor's pressure, these county are the body, I was the mayor's candidate, that I was elected would be the last one because I would do anything to shut down the county. Local leaders depend on mayors, let's not give them funds, if they're not good with the mayor or the same political option you won't get money for projects. They're the same ones who just transfer money, have a number of institutions and institutions that hire. Simply in my county of that money they'll... still receive ten people who don't matter. Where they're needed, they don't take people where the catastre is where the tribune work, where the triba work, where we're going to invest, where we need to clean up that land there's no state of money where it matters, but that's why we're getting into the county. Why? Is that the electoral body, those people who hire they don't go out and that's why this problem happened because we give too much money to the county. I really here once again on our parliamentary deputies want to influence that county zero percent, local self-government money let it go. The Countys have repeated once again the main brake of development of the Republic of Croatia, I publicly claim it to you. With the money they manage simply manage in a way or to hire their own people who are a party card, which proves to you the appointment in the Krka National Park where Ćorić is simply under pressure, Minister Ćorić had to hire a person who has worse conditions, criteria and professional and has no defence status such as Mrs Ljilja Zmijanović, he had to simply hire that person if the lobby of Dujic, Spider, was too much pressure. Here's the lady from my constituency who might know how it works. But so here's the inspectorate's decision, but the inspectorate's head is HDZ. So why, what's this county money for, explain to me what it's going to do for the county? They create coalitions based on the award of concessions for maritime good. In Split-Dalmatia County, we can free... the Bene coalition, Bene, if it has to be shared with families, beaches public well, so it will be shared and this will be, so this will also be sold in the way of coalitions within the county is who is in power. I believe that the counties do not deserve kunas but local self-governments which are also obliged to regulate municipal infrastructure to these facilities, they are responsible for making it both draining and water and asphalt, paved roads, traffic, all that the triba edit to these objects is local self-government what has to be done in the spatial plan. I would once again say that I'm up for this to be arranged, the first reading is, I've made a suggestion that the price is determined that the government can't determine how they can think together by scurrying with the mayors and with various lobbyes that will work out as it was in privatization with our good, public good. still land that has not been estimated and that zero percent is more counties than selling that land and that it is 80% to local self-government, and these 20 for tourism development can do so. I believe that this debate of mine will have an effect on this debate to consider what counties are mainly doing in the coast, which have this land of these camps, that development brakes are, that they do not give extra value so that they should give extra value, that in these counties the biggest demographic decline, that in these counties is the worst health care, health services. Here we have the Hospital in Knin of Croatian Pride, owned by the county, which is before collapse and before the collapse but it is important that it was named Mrs. in Krka National Park which has a party card. Mr. Bacicu, I reiterated it,...and both the HNS and HDZ, but this lady yesterday was 15.1. First thing in the morning, the President of the Parliament remembered that meeting correctly that day. I remember these times, we were all happy, after nine centuries we have independent Croatia, free, international recognition. We had this one, and just yesterday that news came out that the Defense Act was broken. And who did this? County, pressure on Minister Ćorić, who treats himself as a pest to the Krka National Park, according to Zrmanja, according to Cetina, according to waste management, according to the karst, according to Lečevica. For what? Because these mayors absolutely don't care about development. They're basically, they're like the Pharaohs, but they transfer money. And that money is a flow water heater full of rocks. Don't go to the rural areas and that's the problem. And for the first time, he admitted to Prime Minister Plenkovic that the problem in the elections was what the demographics did, which is why people in these areas left because of the poor management of our public good, concessions, maritime good and these counties don't deserve a June. One lip. The county needs to be abolished. They're the government's surplus. They are solely for control of the electoral body, so huge money flows. And now you're the 50 laws, how many, you've mentioned 200 activities and you've given the county to control them, and they're the brakes of development. They're moving us out of Croatia. And the prime minister remembered well, no votes, gone people out. So give me an electronic vote. But you won't give it either because it's gone by people who couldn't stand and watch it, they mostly left because of the injustice of the most beautiful part of the Republic, from my Dalmatia, from my Dalmatian mountain, Slavonia, like. So, here, I once again propose to the counties, to get much more local self-government, and to the counties 0% because the counties don't deserve it. This is money that must belong to local self-government and that we finally take down the mayor's chains and shackles over local leaders so that they can act and that the state is finally decentralised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182126	We are now going to a second debate, the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182127	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister and Secretary of State with his associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will support the draft Law on Unrated Building Land at the HDZ Representatives' Club. I must say that for 30 years since the establishment of an independent Croatia, we have not solved the problem of unrated construction land in the process of conversion and privatisation in the part relating to the construction land that was owned by the state and which, in the process of conversion and privatisation, remained unsolved in such a way that the right of ownership in the laboratory of conversion is recognised on buildings, the properties that were built on that building land, but on the other hand, has not been established... ownership of the rest of the building land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, there were major problems in the functioning of the companies themselves, the inability to invest in construction, on that land that serves them for the regular use of their properties and objects that are owned by them, and on the other hand, it was a huge loss for the Republic of Croatia and for the units of local self-government, because in that area, although under the law it should be owned, if it did not come, or whether it was in the process of purchase, they did not realize the assets that the company would be obliged to pay before the concession, as provided for by earlier law, or by the lease, as provided for by the new law. In 2010, it tried to resolve the issue by law in a way that would continue to resolve this relationship between the company and the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the unit of local self-government, in a way that was planned to create an elaborate that would determine ownership relations in the entire area. Because of the complexity on the one hand, and until the end of the indeterminateness of the law, obviously, and it seems to me that there was not too much political will to resolve this relationship between the company and the Republic of Croatia and the units of local self-government, the 2010 law did not win the success that was expected when the law was passed. And since then, it's been 10 years, it's good, and I welcome that now this law has come to first reading and that through first reading we can fix some more things up to another reading. It is said that although there is no valid data in the Republic of Croatia, about 26 million square square square square squares are said to be about 20 million square meters in the area of hotel facilities, hotel settlements, that there are some 16 million squares in the camp area. That somewhere around 4.5 million squares are related to the remaining priceless building land. So we don't have that data. However, regardless of this, it is nevertheless a large area with which it is systematically not available and which represents a loss on the annual level for the Republic of Croatia and for the units of local and regional self-government, and on the other hand, what I said in the introduction, this fact of unsettled property-legislative relations prevents the quality investment of companies that manage or use in an illegal manner, with the passing approval of the state of that building land. What has this law decided? And I welcome that. It was decided by this law to immediately proceed to its implementation after its adoption in a way that the land which is unevaluated in the privatisation process, which is not assessed in the privatisation and conversion process and which it does not have, has not been established by the holder of ownership to become owned by the Republic of Croatia except by the part on which the buildings or buildings under those buildings are built, which makes up a unique whole of land and real estate and would immediately become owned by the Republic of Croatia, for which it is also necessary to make parcels, parcels and that land that corresponds to the floor of the building entered into the company. The rest of the land will be registered to a local self-government unit. It's a similar situation at camp. By the fact that in the camp land becomes owned by the Republic of Croatia. What's the matter with you right now? What Mrs. Dark Taritash said and what we should define before the second reading. It is clear that the Centre for Reconstruction and Sales as a legal follower of the former state bodies that led the conversion and privatisation process is available from the conversion elaborate with all relevant data defining the area where the company has carried out its activity and where the prescribed properties it has used or not are dependent on the quality of the conversion laboratory itself, but this cannot be the basis for the definition of the parcel to which the commercial company will later, on which it will request a lease or later sale on the basis of the law. Namely, the shape, size of the plot in the Republic of Croatia is defined by a spatial plan and by a spatial plan and a single management department in a large city or county that makes a solution for the determination of a building particle can only be guided by a spatial plan, and the plot that would result from this solution is not necessarily and does not have to be consistent with the documents available to the centre for which the CERP is located. So, here with this law, we need to set out precisely and leave the doubt between Article 5(3) and Article 6(2) of this Act as to how and in what way the size and shape of the building particle will be defined and how geodetic emborate or geodetic video will be produced, a situation that would precede the adoption of that solution. This must be the law until the end so that there is no doubt as to what she had just asked in her replica the question of Mrs. Taritash. So this, in my opinion, must be solved and clearly defined, namely not only in this case, but in all cases in Croatia. When defining the size and shape of a building particle, it shall be defined on the basis of a spatial plan as prescribed by the Spatial Regulation Act, and in that sense that law must be fully in line with the Spatial Regulation Act. Based on this law, the ex-lege company becomes the owner, owner of its facility and land under the building that makes up a single unit and then the ex-lege becomes the tenant of that space and the particle that I say will need to be better defined by law itself. The other part, I said, is owned by units of local self-government if it's also about hotel facilities or the Republic of Croatia which, if it's about the camp. It is good, therefore, that the prescribed deadlines are defined and the lease agreement is with the Republic of Croatia, either with the local self-government unit and it is good to enable the purchase of that land by the company and, in my opinion, is a dispute on whether the amount of the lease will be defined by the Croatian Parliament by its decision to set certain criteria or will be done by the Government, it may be a legitimate question, but I am nevertheless inclined to this solution, so that the Government, that the government defines these criteria and for the reason that time, over time, changes the elements that define the amount of the rent. Well, when it changes over time, it's easier to change it by regulation than to change the laws. We could pull a parallel with a number of other laws where, where similar elements define government regulations, for example, when we talk about maritime good. Otherwise, when I mention maritime good in the context of this law, then there is also something here that needs to be set aside, which is that this law is going to be one of the implementing laws in this law. In fact, we are aware of the fact that numerous camps, as well as numerous hotel facilities, are now located with only maritime well-being, that companies on the seabed benefited well and property which is also like other non-sea-good land and is in the ownership regime unlike the maritime goods that are generally good in, well in general use, will have to be defined by this law by the border of maritime goods between particles owned by the Republic of Croatia and owned by the unit of local self-government and maritime goods. So, no matter how much we threw out the concession, we'll still have a concession with certain companies as one use regime other than the rent. What is left of this law, which is not disputed for me, is that the funds that will be received under this law, which also relate to hotel facilities and campsites are partly deployed in favour of the unit of local, regional self-government, therefore in favour of the county. I agree that regional or regional self-government units, i.e. the county, are indeed the beneficiary of the funds prescribed by this law. So besides the Republic of Croatia, besides the local self-government unit, despite the tourism fund, the right attitude of the government of the Republic of Croatia is to make the county a beneficiary of the area. Why? Because in addition to the unit of local self-government that hands to the heart in the most part provides all infrastructure assumptions for the use and use of this land, these properties, these facilities, these camps and these hotels, in part, waterways, electrical, electrical, and road, traffic, parts of transport infrastructure, but also the county also provides, based on its powers, for the use of these same spaces through part of that same transport infrastructure, part of these county roads leads towards these facilities, and not to say that in terms of the Law on Maritime Good, supporting the beach of maritime goods on which the vast majority of these settlements are rested, these facilities also directly with the maritime well-being managed by the county. Then it is quite clear that by doing so, we would draw the right for the county to be one of the beneficiaries of these funds. And one more thing I'm going to mention, and it's very important, it's that, if I understand correctly, a way of making available and a purpose with funds that are collected from the lease or the sale, that will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I did not understand until the end of the law whether the government would then prescribe a way to use funds that are the income of the local self-government and county units or only the part relating to the Republic of Croatia and the tourism fund. I don't have it left clear from this law until the end. I think, therefore, that these funds, that such a regulation of the Government should apply to the fund and to the funds that are the income of the state, should be left to the units of local self-government, that they then have those resources because I say, they provide assumptions that in an infrastructure sense these spaces would be able to be trained. Well, perhaps the minister will answer that later, from what I read, it seems to me that the Government will decide by its regulation on how to use these funds for the full amount of the rent, i.e. the real law. So, in addition to these few doubts that remain questionable to me, I, I support this bill, I think it is good, it is high time that it is realised because, on the one hand, it, as I said, makes it impossible to invest in these areas, which are large areas, and on the other hand, it cuts out units of local self-government and regional self-government, state and tourism fund, so that they do not have enough resources to invest in this most important economic branch in Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182128	We're going to the third debate. HDS, HSLS and HDSSB representatives' club, respected counterpart Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. The problem of state property is not only here, of course, the problem of state property is present in the continental parts of Croatia, all parts of Croatia, but this law wants to resolve what has been done since 93, since this territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia has not been resolved and where today we have a really big mess and damage in the extreme case, it could be said that all these years we have been acting as some great owners who have so much property that they don't even know where they are and of course don't care about it. We have a situation all over Croatia, when you see a plot of land being healed, it's messy, it's mostly state-owned. That's how you recognize it. So if we wanted to edit it, we'd have to have expenses. And then we come to what all local leaders advocate that they are in principle local self-government and who know where they are, they can take better care of this property, they can put it into function, they can bring it into practice. And in this debate today, there will certainly be a lot of speeches about this relationship between local self-government and state, myself personally in the name of our club that will support this bill in this first reading, I think there are still a few things to be modified and that local self-government needs to be given more opportunities which, of course, will bring them some more revenue, but also the possibility of development, the state practically free from certain burdens and problems that it has because we know that things can be solved from Zagreb, from an office, I don't know, on Pag or elsewhere. A few years ago I was with the owner of a camp, so we sat down, the camp was beautiful, it's pretty, it's pretty invested in it, the man says, here I'd still invest, I've got more interest, this down here, and that was what was down there was something healed, the bushes, which is there, says I can't, so why don't you take this, says I have no one, I don't know how to get to it, how can I rent it, buy it, do anything, so I can't further develop that story. As far as we can see here, in this law, these are exactly the kind of problems that are trying to solve and enable our entrepreneurs who have camps, who have bought certain objects, that they can develop their activities, that they can develop content and that they can, of course, employ people, but also make profits. I like the law in the part where it's said that only one regulation will come out of it. We know well that when we pass laws, then most of these laws result in the fact that 10 regulations, 10 regulations, are still to be passed within a period that is then not respected, and then the law is not applicable. The clearer the law, with as little additional regulations and regulations, certainly enables better, better implementation and better efficiency. The prices to be addressed, whether to give concessions, whether to sell, whether to rent in my opinion should nevertheless be clearly defined by this simple law because it will be easier to implement, of course, the formula by which it will be dealt with. It's certainly clear that they can't be the same prices everywhere for all of them for a square, but some kind of basic price that's then multiplied by the coefficient would have to be the same, the coefficient is the one that determines the value of some land somewhere depending on its position. Just as I believe that what was on the consultation is that the frameworks should be determined, so the price that local self-governments can, by which local self-governments can lease from up to, how much it will be, which will be minimal, which is maximum, but I think the law should define it and thus go into that procedure. So, simply put, with some likely updates, there will be a lot more concrete proposals and in individual discussions as much as I have had the opportunity to hear on the Committee on Local Self-Government, but by talking to colleagues here, I think that some things will still have to be further defined in the law, clarify and agree to be as clear as possible and really applicable in order to finally, at least in this part of Croatia, potentially develop in order to say, in a tourist sense, in order to start the processes that have been standing for a long time, and then I hope that similar processes will start happening throughout Croatia, and that we will come into a situation where the real property that Croatia has a function as effectively as possible, as possible and thus allow development. I repeat, the state and local self-government are the same organism, the same organism, there has to be some level of co-existence. Local self-government is the capillaries system of the state, and these capillaries need to be released and allowed to bring back oxygen so that the state can function. Thank you very much. We support the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182130	Thank you. Now it's the club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives, dear colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182131	On behalf of the IDS Club, I would like to refer to this Proposal for a Law on Unrated Building Land. I must first of all point out that in the IDS two years ago we warned about the importance of this law and asked for a new law to be drawn up because the current law adopted now in practice in 2010 did not exist and did not show the results of the application. The problem that exists with that land has been dragging for 25 years. So we welcome the Ministry's intention to finally get rid of it, the truth is that it's a lot late, but that's better than ever. But it remains, of course, to see how much this law will actually be implemented in practice. We believe that this law is of paramount importance for both Istria County and other coastal and coastal areas, given that it directly affects the development of tourism and the creation of new values in the tourism sector and because its application is related to business and hotels and camps of tourist companies, and thus to increasing revenues to municipalities, cities, counties and the state. Namely, what's this about? In the process of transforming social enterprises engaged in tourism activity into the core capital of companies, the land on which the buildings were built was generally not assessed. hotels or camps have already been evaluated. After the conversion process, the facilities became owned by companies, and the land under the facilities and around the facilities became owned by the Republic of Croatia. We see that this big problem for the tourism sector that has lasted since the early 1990s has not been solved and it was really time to finally do something about it. It tried with the 2010 law, however, the results were lagging behind. Although I must admit, I am not quite sure that this bill is a very good solution, so in my presentation I will point out the failures of this first-reading bill to get a law that will be applicable in practice and that will offer solutions that will satisfy local self-government units, meaning municipalities and cities as well as hotelers. the tourism sector and the state. According to the proposal for a law owned by units of local self-government, only land will belong to an object that serves the regular use of these buildings, which has not been assessed and which has not entered into the fundamental capital of society or in conversion. So the company is obliged to build a geodetic elaborate, define which land is necessary and this land is the unit of local self-government required or sold or leased by a hotel company. The rest of the plot, meaning the remaining land practically the same particles or the same plots become owned by the Republic of Croatia, means again we have two properties on the same plot. One that is essential for a hoteler, and the other that remains as a well-ordered environment, and for us, it is simply unacceptable because the relationship between the unit of local self-government, hotel and state will again be complicated because of the way the land is used and managed. There have already been talks about the price of rentals that we do not know and which will define by the government regulation, which is a major questionnaire for the hoteliers themselves and will ask themselves why they would take over some of those remains of large parcels that they do not need, but today they arrange them as an environment, as parks, as some additional facilities that need tourism, and I think this is why they should leave the entire land in the ownership of a local self-government unit to reduce these administrative difficulties in the management and arrangement of that land. But I'm going to repeat our attitude from the IDS that we insist here and that would simplify the whole procedure, that the land that was in the '90s and '91s would be. either within the building area of the unit of local self-government and covered by spatial planning documentation with the precisely defined purpose of returning to ownership of local self-government units which would allow for faster, better quality land to be put into operation because I repeat, we have not been able to carry out this as a state for 25 years. Leave it to the local self-government units once, and let's decentralisation this country. This, again, will reduce deadlines and will certainly be much more successful for both the state and local self-government units as well as for hotel companies. We really don't understand why the state doesn't want to accept that what was once owned by former municipalities according to spatial plans that now the land wants to be managed by the state. I would like to stress that this unresolved issue today has the consequences of expensive and unnecessary judicial disputes between the state on the one hand and the municipalities and cities on the other, which prevents both public and private investment, the creation of new jobs, the achievement of revenues both for the state and for the local community. I therefore repeat and insist that the owners of these land should be units of local self-government or cities and municipalities, since they know best how to use these land in accordance with the needs of this area, and in most cases we know that cities need to edit these land so that there are no cases that we have abandoned and unsustained land near the tourist site, which then disrupts the appearance of not only this tourist resort but the entire tourist resort. tourist destinations. Because I'm asking a question, is the state that owns this land going to come to mow grass, edit, plant flowers if it's owned by it, or is it going to have to do the local self-government unit like it does today? The unestimated land situation in the circle of autocamps is even more unfavourable because this bill makes the Republic of Croatia the owner of 100%. Land in a camp which has not been assessed means in the conversion process and has not entered the company's core capital. We believe that these lands should also be left to local self-government units. What I would like to look at next is the proposal to distribute income from tourist land and the country where hotels and tourist settlements were built, specifically on Article 11 of the law, on the basis of which the lease or purchase price is shared in a way that 40% belongs to units of local self-government and is paid to their budget, 20% of the county, and 40% is paid to the Tourism Fund. We cannot be satisfied with this distribution because, in the process and the public consultation itself, the proposal was that 60% of the funds belonged to local self-government units. I repeat the question, why is that amount down? We oppose this because just as Mr Bacic said in his address that these units of local self-government are the holders of investments and investments and the development of the entire infrastructure and maintenance of existing ones, all in order to develop tourism and create added values. We are ready to accept that all resources are strictly intended and that is precisely for the development of tourism. Some state has mechanisms and surveillance tools and to control the signing of contracts, prices and spending of these funds, but let cities and municipalities that have to invest additional funds because of this tourism is not all nice and wonderful but represents a burden for these local communities because in the season, and we know that the season is much longer, we invest additional resources in infrastructure, whether it's waterways, whether it's traffic, whether it's parking lots and all of it's funded from the budget of the units of local self-government. We need to have extra trucks to take out the trash, we need to have bigger facilities of waste disposal centers. And now I'm asking, if you're reducing the incomes of the local self-government unit with tax reforms, and also here where we have our own resources where we can achieve those revenues, then just let us do it. And so, I'm going to ask again, why, why are you cutting us down? And that's why we suggest that you leave 50% to municipalities and cities, 30% to the county and 20% to the fund. This is the one for tourist land in tourist resorts, hotels and tourist resorts. And now we come to land around, in camps. There's an even worse situation. Here you have proposed 30% of the funds to belong to the state and is paid into the state budget, 20% to local self-government units in which the camp is located, 10% to the county and 40 to the tourism fund. Now, let me ask you. Why, for what reason, do you create the difference between one land that is in tourist settlements and another land that is in auto-camps? We suggest that it be equal distribution as it is for land within tourist settlements. I'm asking myself a question, isn't it enough for the state, because you've put 30% of the state and state budget there, isn't it enough for the state to do very well with the operation of these camps, through VAT, through other taxes, to achieve higher revenues than by further centralising the possible original incomes precisely to units of local self-government from its own resources, and thus, these own resources and increased revenues will provide funds for the further development of these municipalities and cities for all those infrastructure needs that these units need just because of tourism and the increase in numbers, I'm going to say people, guests in that area that are necessary. And now even more nonsense, proposed by this bill, is the introduction of different economic profitability coefficients for the initial amount of the unit price of the camp's rent. This would be sad or funny, as it is said, why there is a difference in the coefficient between, specifically, the Istrian County and the Primorje-Gorski County, which has a coefficient of 1, while for example in Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska, Split-Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretva County are defined lower coefficients. Well, I guess in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the car-camp that exists can certainly work a lot longer than the one in Istria because of the climate. So, he, the usability will be much longer. And you've proposed precisely for those counties outside of Istria and the Primorje-Gorski, lower coefficients. Now, I'm setting myself up for what? No, I referred Prime Minister Plenkovic to yesterday and asked that we apply the same criteria for all because there is a question opening up, whether some counties are being punished, depending on where in power, I will not be bad, but I ask the question why different criteria. I also keep us at the IDS club that the coefficients in all tourist-developed counties should be equal and I really don't see any reason that only Istrian and Primorje-Gorski County have a higher coefficient. Of course, we support and agree that camps on islands, and I don't know why the law was put into the continental part, because in the continental part there are no such cases that you have camps that have entered into conversion and have no estimated land, should have a different relationship and have a more favourable coefficient. Next, the question arises, why in calculating the difference in concession fee in Article. In 39th, do they even introduce developmental indices? We think it is unnecessary and I expect the minister to answer today why it is even incorporated into the law. And finally, we think there's a lot of room to improve this law, so we in the IDS expect our proposals to be accepted until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182132	Now let's go to the debate of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182133	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, the distinguished ministers with their associates. Here, in front of us is the first reading of a law called the Law on Unrated Building Land. It's good to go in two readings. Maybe, I don't know if I should start from the end or start from the beginning. If it was easy to solve the problem, the problem would be solved. I'm sure it was the interest of everyone to solve it, but obviously the problem is not easy and we at the GLAS Club support good intentions to have the law, but we also have a series of application of the law, so we hope that when you go through all the remarks, you will look at it and see that we finally get the law that can, which can be really usable and operational. A little, let's look around. So other countries have faced some problems that they couldn't solve with basic laws, and then they always decided to do it, to pass some kind of special law. So that's never, that's not news. That's what Switzerland did when she had a problem, that one canton was underdeveloped, which special law defined how to do it. It was done in neighbouring Slovenia when she wanted to invest in certain areas, and then it couldn't be done with existing laws and it had special and this law should be looked at. This is a special law relating to the existing situation and the fact that this existing situation should be settled. The current situation is not good for anyone. It's not good for those companies that have hotels because they can't invest further, they can't build, they can't do other things because they work on other people's land. It's not good for camps, camps that want to develop, that want to invest just as much because it's always the problem of this land. I have to admit, we've known hours and hours to discuss how to solve you. It's not a problem for a country that's looking to make money, and it's got nothing to do with it. And let me say two sentences. The highest possible profit this country can have is the most legitimate possible maritime well-being all those praying, all those ports, all those even ACIs and marinas located on the maritime good are mostly illegally made concessions not paying anyone. So if the state started to solve maritime well-being and all that could be done on the maritime good, it would be one serious entry or one serious shift in our budget. But I don't want to talk about maritime good now, but I'm going back to this law. This law has to answer three things, it has to be life, it has to be logical and it has to be enforceable. That's three things this law is supposed to do. Now, I have a feeling you're headed that way and you're halfway there. It's our custom for everyone to say the problem is this, the problem is that we put the problems all together, but nobody says how to solve the problem and let's solve the problem. What should be the meaning of this law? What exactly do we want with this law? We want to solve the problem, we want to put that building land into operation, we want to invest in it, we want to invest in tourism, and if we know that's how we want to solve the problem, let's try to solve it. This law didn't settle it. He pointed out problems, tried to figure something out and solve it, but he didn't solve it until the end. And this debate in the first reading here is now these from the opposition came and now they're criticizing, they're not doing well, try to understand this debate in a way, so our interest is and we want this problem to be solved, to put these lands into operation and that in the end they all benefit from it. They'll have these companies because they'll invest, make them invest, make them do it, they'll have local self-government units because they'll come up with something, they'll have a state as well. Therefore, the interest is to solve the problem. Now we come up with those few things that remain open and insolvent and that will cause a sure problem. Your whole law is based on the fact that building particles are formed, so that immediately all sorts of doubts and doubts here are always about building land and some sort of existing state. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The law on spatial arrangement of the solution for the formation of a building particle says that the building particle is formed in accordance with the plan, or if this is not possible according to the rules of the profession, a building particle is formed which is necessary for the operation of the facility. Now imagine that I am now in the air drawing here, you can have a law that you have in principle, you can have three hotels, and if it's not defined in the law how you do it, you'll come into an office, and you know well that our offices work in a way that if they're not sure and if it's something substandard, and this is substandard that they'll actually go in such a way to be sure. And now imagine if you get that everyone will form a building particle in a way that serves the regular use of the building. In other words, it means about the hotel meter, it's a rule of your profession. It's about a mile away and you've got a skeleton, so you've got to do something on that scale. If you go back to the option according to the spatial plan and there you can have a problem. I think you should define this law, so if you have already derivated some of the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning, and that will point out to you in the part that you have to define to the end, then you should also say by this law how it is formed, that it forms for a procedure in the space that is the function of this company, which is not because you have on one side. You have on the one hand this law, and on the other hand you have a law on spatial order, you're going to transfer it to the office and the office will say, "Wait a minute, but I'm in the provision here, so you define it as you want." I don't have a problem here, this building particle can be bigger than the plan predicted, it can be different, but define in the law that whoever publishes it has the basis for it to be called on, otherwise in that part as it has so far been inexhaustible, it will be inexhaustible. Don't make a law that'll be inconclusive to you in one part. I think and I am convinced that the whole of the law is about trying to solve the problem of these coverages, that this land really can be further developed, built and everything else, that someone manages this land because now no one manages. So that's the point. So, even I don't have a problem with the state making a decision and saying, we don't know what to do, we're going to go on rent and we're going to turn these leases into sales is it much fairer, much more operational, you're going to get one-time money but you're not going to bother anymore. Don't get yourself in a position to come in a way that then your office won't be able to bring back what's being done to you in the lab. So you in this section of building particle formation have to apply only this law, not the Law on Spatial Editing, because you want to actually form a building particle that is different than the Law on Spatial Editing said and define that there. Sit down with colleagues who know what they're talking about, it's very simple to do and a few provisions are written and it's done. Of course campes are a special problem, a problem that needs to be solved. When it comes to tourism, it's something that you can make as fast as you can and you can make the fastest possible. They already told me before about these different coefficients, don't do it, don't share in Croatia especially counties along the coast that some have one coefficient, others have other coefficients it's just not good, it simply won't lead to some kind of conflict so someone will say why I so, so don't all define those coefficients leave one. Equally the custom we have, I see it more and more in the law, when we don't know how to solve the problem then we move the problem away from ourselves and then we say a special regulation will be adopted and then the regulation will define it and then this regulation will be adopted or not. If it isn't passed, the law can't be implemented. If it's passed, then we have a challenge. So whatever you can define in the law, define in the law. They're staying, and I'm going to do something in an individual debate, but there's still a theme on how to use the funds. All the laws that we had that were this lex specialis for a particular thing, when the funds were given to both local and regional self-government units were always defined what the unit's assets could do. And that should be defined in this law. In this division will never be satisfied, the point is just, you'll be dealing with these funds. When we define what these means are supposed to do, then you will come into the percentages by which you will assign. So you should know what to do with the funds you get done. Let me just point out the following, the following problems that are. Whether it's a lease or it's going to be a sale, it's some kind of political decision, whether the state is going to decide to have a lease, so for 30 or 50 years it's going to be an income, or if it's going to be an income, it's going to be some kind of political decision, like any family when it has any real estate, whether it's better to sell it, or whether it's better to rent it to it depending on the time. But you have two more or three things to solve. You have a provision of Article 19 which is attached to the provision of Article 16 and is spoken about how to enter it, so that the land-book court will, on the basis of the solution set out in Article 16, carry out a book of property rights for the benefit of persons designated by a solution, regardless of the existing entries in the land-book, and possibly entered third parties are obliged to suffer it. I've got to admit, I don't have a problem. We already have the Roads Act, which said that they are entered in the land book, that regardless of those who were owners or were not, there was also a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of that provision and I think that the request was 2017, 2018 and the Constitutional Court responded affirmably and said that, that this provision was not constitutional. This is one of the provisions where you have safe, you will have lawsuits that will be the same about constitutionality because here says that third parties are obliged to suffer it. Let me just take a step back, you here, you know that we have a special procedure that is related to the cadastre, a special procedure that is related to the land book. You should be defined somewhere to go enrolling in a cadastre equally directly so that you don't happen if you don't have enrollment in a cadastre, and if you have an entry in a land book, you have to tie each other up. So, before this provision you have to talk about how you're going to enroll in the cadastre, and then how you're going to enter the land book and until the second reading I think you're still sitting down with, even asking the Constitutional Court to see it because that's the basis for your constitutionality of the law. So that's, that's why I'm making comparisons with the Road Law there is all defined, here it's not fully defined. So, tie up the cadastre, tie up the garter. I have to admit that I don't have a single problem in principle, that we have a lex specialis that we want to solve the problem and that for enrollment in the cadastre, enrollment in the garland, to form certain things don't apply existing regulations because if they could be applied, it would be solved, but that we have a special list, but then you have to define all the elements. Do not leave the possibility of applying one and the other regulations because each will refer to its basic because it is used to work. When the roads went then, of course, the Roads Act was all at that point, so why and when it started to work, when it was a request for a constitutional assessment, it was all settled and, I'm talking about unclassified roads, because everything was resolved until the end. There's another problem, that's your provision, I think it's Article 14, but I'm going to do it a little bit more in an individual debate, that's when you say that a valid spatial plan won't be applied in a section that's on the camp's space so I don't elaborate now because I have too much time, I'm going to do it in an individual debate. And it can be solved. So, what is the point of this debate and what is the purpose of the debate in the first reading? If we have a problem, and we have it, if we want to solve it life-savingly, and I think we want to solve it that way. And then, it's a good thing it's two readings and it's good to solve it because we're going to have one lex specialis that will only apply to that problem, but there's still a lot of work to do and a lot to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182134	Thank you, too. It is now in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE and Independent Representatives and New Politics, says Mr Tomislav Žagar, a long title.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182135	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The respected ministers with co-workers, therefore, as in the opening statement, and my predecessors spoke about it, of course, the urgency of this law is to put into operation tourism capacities in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to hotels and camps and there is no reserve to support this legislative proposal because tourism is an extremely important branch, the economic branch of the Republic of Croatia, makes a huge percentage of GDP, and we need to take advantage of all opportunities for this important branch in the Republic of Croatia to strengthen as much as possible and thus to achieve as possible the revenues of the state budget and in this sense this law goes in a good direction. However, allow me just a few remarks, and perhaps something that I would say like this, something to say about my soul, yes, and perhaps for the soul of many who listen today, who, despite some of the processes that have happened in the past, do not look very kindly, as I do not, and it is my turn to mention them, however, that they do not remain below the line today. Someone might say we're talking about snow last year, but let me say it. So it's no accident that there's a number of references here that the land wasn't evaluated during the privatisation and conversion process. In Slavonia, this thing is clear and thank God that the land was not evaluated, if it hadn't entered the core capital of the PICs at the time, then the situation that we had with Agrokor, today's Forten Group, would have happened so that the land that was then owned by PICs as social property would actually have been owned by companies and today would have been de facto private property of 30,000 hectares of land would have been private property. This is about building land. Why is that? I don't have enough knowledge, I don't have enough at the time, it was in the 1990s why it was done that way. I think the intensity was similar and now there is land left under the hotel, land located beneath these construction facilities in camps which are few and which are not solved and which the owners of companies currently have on the basis of concessions, but cannot invest because they are not sure that their investments will ultimately be profitable to them, i.e. The concession when it stops they'll lose those properties. And in that sense, it should be mentioned that privatisation is at that time, and look at the privatisation audits, you see that there are a lot of gaps, but today I say it is probably and immaterial, but many owners who today and are objects over these properties have significant objections to privatisation. Here this law has been cited two, three principled remarks and I also hope and believe that the proposer will correct it or correct it until the second reading. One of the things is surely incomes distributed from the lease of that land until it goes into sale. And I personally think that this is all meant for camp owners and hotel owners to buy that land and there's nothing controversial about it, let them buy it, but that should be said clearly, until then the revenues will be distributed by this law and the small share of it is actually determined for municipalities and cities. I don't see what formula that calculation was made by. Here, when it comes to agricultural land there is a relatively good ratio, units of local self-government 65% of municipalities and cities, county 10% and 25% of states. Of course, there is a fund here, but I think these ratios should be corrected but more significant as the income of local self-government units. the municipality of primarily municipalities and cities. As for later sales, when the time comes for the sale of the land will be one-off, but no more income. But what is expected, of course, is the development of the economy, the development of these tourist facilities, and thus the greater income of the entire society as a whole. And on that side, it should once again be pointed out that this law should be supported in that direction. What Ms. Anka has warned, Mr. Taritash, is certainly a matter of profession, of setting the boundaries of construction land and in general. There is even a reference to the boundaries of the fences that have been set so-called. A peaceful property. And speaking of fences, what interests me as a Slavon, and I believe many citizens. You walk the coast, there's a clear sky and there's moons and stars, and then if you don't watch your nose, you stick it in the wire. You come across a hotel or some other tourist facility that fenced its plot, it practically entered the sea with wire. I would like to know if here the Proposer Minister can say how much it is and according to the Law on Maritime Good, the truth there and concessions what is controversial in that law concessions make it possible. It may even be a better solution if it is private property, perhaps there will be no such problems. Let it be made clear whether in the Republic of Croatia citizens can walk along the coast uninterrupted, unless, of course, it's some kind of economic facility like a shipyard, somewhere where there's some kind of economic activity where you can't actually go in just like that, but when we talk about camps, hotels, can citizens go uninterrupted along the coast? I'm talking about the beach. In this case, according to many, even documented photographs of citizens, it is not possible at this time in many places. Here's what I'm interested in as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and that's one of the fundamental issues, actually the use of general resources. We hope that by the second reading you will respect these remarks regarding the distribution of income units of local self-government and regarding the determination of the boundaries of building land because it does not seem to be the first banal wave in Slavonia that is the problem, I do not know that it is also in Dalmatia. My colleague Demetlik mentioned cutting, you know it's not a harmless problem, mowing huge areas on which no one has any, all giving up no one, it's problems, it's disrupting pictures and tourist resorts, and then it's also a tourist offer. We hope that by the second reading you will appreciate these remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182136	Thank you, Mr. Sagarro. And now in front of the SDP club, Mr. Vedran Babic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182137	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, co-workers of the minister. Here, on behalf of the SDP club, I will rely on the adoption of the Law on Unrated Building Land. Few people in the West would be incomprehensible that after nearly three decades, after privatisation and conversion, we are passing such a law, but unfortunately it is simply necessary that even the 2010 law as well as you have well established, and it was confirmed in practice, it had no effect that the offices of property-legal relations on tourist land or on complexes in which companies came into possession during privatisation or themselves as such privatised. The SDP Club tends to support this legislative proposal, simply to finally set things in motion in this sense, that all these tourist complexes, which unfortunately stand regularly limited in these kind of bureaucratic frameworks that we as a state to them and should be a state, unfortunately, organized in their regulations by constantly doing some kind of oversight when they passed the law. I understand that your work is not easy, I'm almost even thinking that the malts not for every destination or location may need to write and, in particular, a law which would be absurd, but I think that when they adopt and prepare for the next reading, you might want to try, maybe take as many practical examples as possible to see what entities who want to either rent or buy the land they need for development, and now they can't develop, how to solve their problem. My colleagues have warned everyone before me about these problems but here I am, too, warning myself because I am convinced that we will again get involved in something that we will not be able to bring an end to quality and that this coast and these complexes of hotel and tourist camps are finally developing so that they should develop. The very fact in practice is that, when establishing land regularly used for the use of buildings, the practice of offices in cities, the counties that bring these solutions is different, some give regularly useful land just below the particle itself, to bring a solution, some bring a meter around a particle so that a skeleton can be set up as a colleague said and a third one even gives larger surfaces where some others are involved, as you might say, service areas for these buildings. I also don't think it's a good idea that this land that is for the regular use of the building, that only this land is assigned to be a unit of local self-government owner or a tendency of your ministry should be given as much state property to function as soon as possible and I am convinced that the units of local self-government are much more dynamic and faster than the ministry because it's only a fact on the ground, in first contact and with those entrepreneurs who have these problems and, of course, with those who are interested in buying those land. The state and every municipality and every city, doesn't have to write the Republic of Croatia in order to be a state in the right sense of the word. The same colleague Demetlik also warned about the fact of this land that remains owned by the Republic of Croatia, which maintains it, you know for yourself how long it takes to buy the state land that was in the agency, which was conducted by the agency and your ministry and simply, people go through a whole catharsis that takes a very, very long time to even enter, to buy land that is of interest to them, and to mention how things happen around and assessing the same land, etc. In addition, colleagues and colleagues also looked back at economic profitability coefficients per county, I believe that you used arguments to say, let's say, Istra developed, so you put a unit on them, they are also closer to most tourists who come than say Dubrovnik but you have an example that some islands are also close, they have a coefficient of 0.7 and they are developed, they have now less coefficient than, say, central Dalmatia. So I believe, so my opinion is that there is still a need to work on this legislative proposal, as much as possible to include concrete examples to try to see in practice what it would mean for 3 or 4 locations to be spent to be owned by 100%, to have their entire area functionally and belonging to it, which he also needed to develop, which man might have thought when, who thought they were privatizing when they were in the privatisation process, to put into function and to develop those destinations. At the first reading of the SDP club will be restrained, but I believe to your second proposal and respectfully, as you have respected the mass of good proposals during the public debate, that you will respect these and that your next legislative proposal will be supported by our party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182138	Thank you, too. Now we're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Peja Grbin is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Of course I support the intensification that the current situation when we talk about tourist land is being settled. We all know that what we have now is unsustainable, bad, just bad. The current situation does not allow development, does not allow investment and does not provide income to local and state budgets. In fact, tourist land which, not without the devil, we often say is invaluable as it is worth, largely represents dead capital for the Republic of Croatia. I'm looking at you colleagues from the Ministry of State Property and I know how much you and your predecessors have had trouble conducting procedures to bring some tourist settlements in and out of purpose. With my colleague, Turin Đuric, I had just discussed the situation of Scott Bay and the problems it has just because of tourist land where no one is interested in taking over it because it only takes over buildings and the land between certain facilities is in some sort of limbo, unresolved status. And now you should buy, pay, probably not a small amount of money for an existing tourist resort and then you don't know if, under what conditions, how, when, etc. the power to solve the land between these facilities that you need for further development. However, as a representative coming from the constituency covering Istria and Kvarner, I must point out to you certain things that I consider wrong and which I hope through this debate and through the preparation for the second reading we will be able to correct in order to get a law that will unfortunately meet the purpose that the laws we have passed so far are not. The first problem, it seems to me, is a colleague of Mrak Taritash, a way of identifying the land used for the regular use of buildings. This is not a problem that exists only in this law, this problem exists and, for example, in residential buildings where housing rights existed, so they were listed in the book of contracted contracts and we were given rather bizarre situations that applied different criteria in different and sometimes in the same units of local self-government. So somewhere as land intended for the regular use of the building, it was considered that the land would be intended for the regular use of the building according to the spatial plan, so the spatial plan says, and such a building must be so many parking spaces, so many operating areas around the building, etc., and in other units of local self-government that had different access as land intended for regular use of the building, only the land that is located under the building is determined. And now you're depending on whether or not you've been lucky or unhappy that your apartment is in one, second or third unit of local self-government, because of different practices that are nowhere to be leveled or corrected, and in a different property position. It will be particularly important here because this land is far more and this land is far more expensive and valuable. I think that the criteria should be more clearly prescribed and I hope that we will go after what is provided for by the spatial plan of the unit of local self-government, more than what is not foreseen here to move this land directly into the ownership of a tourist company, but goes to the body of the public authority, the republic or the unit of local self-government that will have it. So only through this process do we determine what will be of the unit of local self-government or the Republic of Croatia with the fact that I have one remark and I will return to that state since '90, '91, etc., the Law on Forests, the Law on Agricultural Land where we had one principle. Building land goes to units of local self-government, agricultural forest, forest, regardless of whether it is within the boundaries of building land, here I look at colleagues and colleagues who come from local self-government and who know it very well, the Republic goes. The tourist land is a building land and we have been deviating here from the principle that has been generally being implemented in the Republic of Croatia for 30 years. I will accept your position that this is correct but I hold that it should be much better explained. That's the question I asked in the replica, Mr. Secretary, I know that 1 minute is not enough to answer such a complex question, and I hope that in the final presentation it will answer this. But if we decide that this land is going to the Republic of Croatia, then there must be clear reasons. My colleague Demetlik, for example, talked about the maintenance problem. Both you and I know that the Republic of Croatia will not maintain that land but will eventually have to be maintained by a unit of local self-government that is not its owner. My colleagues have mentioned the economic cost per county, please reconsider. If we are going towards the economic viability coefficient, then he should not be in the county but should go to those places as they are classified into those classes, it seems to me that the residence tax is determined, etc. Because no one can convince me that the location of the camp which is, for example, in the vicinity of Zadar or in the vicinity of Dubrovnik is much worse than the camp in the vicinity of Pula, Labin, etc. It doesn't make any sense to me. If we go to places, then we'll get a lot of better results and I'll just tell you that here, let's say, the entire Primorje-Gorski County, except for the island, is treated the same way. So in coefficient 1 and Gorski kotar with, there are not many camps from the '80s, but in the whole area there are both Gorski Kotar and Rovinj and Umag a Losinj, Cres etc. are within the coefficient of 0.7. It doesn't make sense to me, and it has no excessive connection to what the market shows about the attractiveness, interest and ability of the business success of such a camp. And the last thing, my colleague Mrak Taritash warned of that, and I believe that from the constitutional and legal point of view, this and the biggest problem of this law. It's about art. Seven. If I have carefully read what is provided for in Art. The 7th Law, you have provided for a procedure for enrolling property rights over this land in land books. What you've served is probably the way it's arranged by the roads. But there's one problem. On the roads, the Constitutional Court could justify such behaviour by legislators and the Republic of Croatia because the road is public good in general use. Tourist land is not a public good in general use. And that's where we come into a serious problem. If something is commercial and commercial will be exploited and one of these will have income, and units of local self-government and county and state and ultimately and entrepreneur, we cannot just rule out the person who is listed in the land books. You. Seven, you're actually prescribing one special form of expropriation. A form of extradition in which a person entered in land books as a holder of rights cannot participate. Now, that's where you'll find yourself with a few problems, for example. Someone is believing that his enrollment is legal, for example someone pawned that property, so we have mortgages to banks etc. That's the person you're putting in a situation where you're gonna take away his land, his credit is left. What I believe should be done is to ensure that the holder of land-licensed rights, the current holder of land-licensed rights, has to have the status of the party in the proceedings, if for no other reason than to have opportunities and express his objections and, where appropriate, lead the proceedings. Because I'm going to warn you of one thing, the procedure that you have in the case of the Roads Act leads after enrolment is land-marked, it's not contradictory. You in the land-marking process even when you have the right to deny that procedure that has been conducted for public road registration cannot point out this because in the land-booking process you are not allowed to point out new facts and evidence. You must only be guided by those facts and evidence that are highlighted in the previous procedure or documents on which the entry is made. Everything else is driving you into litigation, which means costs for both the state and the tourist company and for land-ready holders. I therefore believe that Article 7 should be amended in a way that includes the holder of the right of land in order to ensure that they can protect their rights if they are based on any valid reasons. I'll do it again, it's good to go into this, this has to be done, but I think there's too many things that need to be fixed to get Bianca's support. So for the time being, if this thing we pointed out is changed until the second reading, I believe we could all, together with the pleasure of supporting the adoption of this law that the Republic of Croatia needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182140	You, too. Mr. Greek's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182141	... I would especially point out this detail or problem that you have mentioned regarding the different evaluations in certain counties or regions, especially in this coastal part, when it comes to positioning camps. [[Specially enabled.]] I would also like to inform my colleagues in the House that we had this as one of the main topics on the Committee on Tourism, and I think that we have agreed more or less, regardless of any political differences, to a large extent that such differentiation is not a good thing to do. The success of a camp is determined by its micro-location, for example. close to the coast, sea goods or, say, distance from that, to the natural characteristics of the area in which they are located, etc., so much, much more criteria than to be specific to their success in whether they are in one or another county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182142	Answer, here you go, Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182143	I couldn't agree more, that's why I said what I said. So nobody can convince me that the location around Dubrovnik is in the immediate vicinity of Sibenik or Trogir in any way worse than the location located near Pula, Labin, Vodnjana etc. Camps are simply different by so many criteria that such flat-rate county in one, second, third or fourth grade is wrong. What we can talk about and where we can talk about is kind of encouraging and through the lease are islands. But there are certain doubts because it is not the same position as Vis and Krka, it simply is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182144	Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras' turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182145	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Lalovec, for your little assistance. When we talk about this law and what is more or less mentioned here in the debate, which is that one problem that has been unresolved for years and where many who deal with tourism and have large investments in tourism have had some delays in investing precisely because that property has not been solved. The most common is camps within the large hotel chains that have invested in their hotels, but have always considered whether to invest further in something that has not been legally resolved or have no regulated status or ownership or with the state. And it's normal that this should finally be solved and that one correct solution should be made. I absolutely agree that this should reach a consensus, this is not about any excessive ideological issue but simply about the problem that needs to be solved. Finally, that entrepreneurs have the ability to regulate certain things and invest, and on the other hand, that the state on that property that is apparently its property because it has not entered into the conversion, although the same question is that all these houses have been converted, or when we remember both the Homeland War and how much of this property has been used to help Croatian citizens, and afterwards it has been given and sold in some situations and into nothing. So let's remember all those coupon privatisations where some funds came up with a model to coupons that were then converted into properties from worthless companies to companies in the tourism sector, so there was a lot of me to say intransparency and not honorable shops. But the fact is that a lot of entrepreneurs are waiting and would like to resolve this status so that they can normally carry out their economic activity. On this side, the problems discussed by his colleague, Grbin, and those mentioned earlier by his colleague, the evaluation and price in certain areas should be absolutely considered for us to come to an optimal or ideal perhaps not solution, given that the ideal solution does not exist in such a complicated matter but that there is more justice than what is now stated in the law because the fact is that factors affecting the value of a particular camp, location, land are certainly more connected to certain factors that are close to the sea or infrastructure and not just the area of the county or location that is related to a particular county. So when we talk about camp by the sea or in Pula or Trogir, it's certainly more attractive than in and standing county camp located in Dalmatia or, for example, well, Istria has I would say a slightly more developed part of that continental tourism or, now it's slowly developing in Dalmatia, but there are still big differences and not just related to the county. When we talk about Croatia as a tourist country, surely it is necessary to resolve it, what I must mention here at this time is something that personally bothers me as a citizen and as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, which is that we are witnessing in different areas of Croatia about large air pollution. Here we have today in the city of Zagreb a third day in a row of air pollution which is three times bigger in certain parts of the city than it should be. So I'm looking for immediate action both the mayor and the city administration and the competent ministry to do something about it. So we have situations in other parts of Croatia, but these things have to come out in public, I may have come out of the topic now, but you will understand that citizens are following the topic with great care today, right now I'm going to New Zagreb to see what's going on there and to see how we can help finally after 3 days, the city administration is getting an advert and that eventually, the state with the competent ministry and the inspection is responding. So Jakuševac and that part of Zagreb that is hit with the most of this problem, we have to resuscitate and the state must finally start doing its job. As far as this law is concerned, I expect us to make some changes, and I hope that's how it's going to be to get the best possible solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182146	Thank you, too. The first replica has Mr. Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182147	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Maras, you said this property was state property, i.e. Hers. That's what we in IDS disagree with because you didn't say how she signed up as the owner. Let's remember what Mr. coat of arms said in '90, and '91. and while the former congregations of the municipalities were that it was the land that was in the construction area, it was the property of these municipalities and in '93. The new reconstruction of municipalities and cities was required to re-write the newly created units of local self-government. Meanwhile, the state through the State's Attorney's Office without warning municipalities and cities has registered as the owner of a large part of these plots that were in the construction area. I think that injustice has been done and what Mr. Peja said should be respected by the decisions made in the 1990s and that today this law gives the land back to the units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182148	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182149	As far as your replica is concerned, I've only found out what the situation is right now, but I agree with you. So I wouldn't mind getting rid of it by law, leaving it to the units of local self-government that would be under no. 1 had a certain benefit from the rental and under no. 2 much more efficient raised the value of this land and helped specifically improve the entire tourist offer around the land and in cooperation with entrepreneurs in their area. So if it's possible to do that, if you have an amendment to suggest it, I'll take it by hand and support it and I think you should do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182150	The second is Mr. Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182151	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Maras, I just volunteered to actually support what you said about air pollution in the city of Zagreb and the need to get rid of it quickly. The thing exploded in the face of the citizens of Zagreb because it had long been neglected, and it had to be done everything to make it better. And I think that the Parliament must show its interest in such a question, carry out and, on its part, some pressure on the structures of the city to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182152	Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182153	Thank you very much. My question is very simple, how is the Ministry of Environmental Protection inspection? Where's Mr. Minister Coric? Where are the services that need to control the safety of our fellow citizens and children? We do not want to read in the media every day that the safest way is not to walk but to use public transport or that children should not go out on public surfaces. So the city and the state are here to solve citizens' problems. In this case, we have a huge problem that is ignored and no one is working on it. So this is another one of the things that needs to be warned here that there is no functioning of those who live on the money paid by citizens or taxes that citizens pay to have a safe place to live and not to worry about these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182154	And the last line has Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182155	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, I can't help but report to Maras' statements and his exposure when a gentleman who managed state property is 90% of the economy who has never been in a private sector in any other sector, who is allowed to close 30,000 crafts as a minister, which is his success and he's talking about governance and state property. It is easy to manage something other than what someone else has created and done, but it should be smart to bring it to purpose and benefit, and someone who has no experience other than that party can manage anything, difficult to themselves, and especially other people's results and investments. To talk about the safety of someone who twice as a minister had the opportunity and the manager of Bellolass to burn his facility down more than by accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182156	Time, thank you very much. Mr. Maras' answer. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... Timeout
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182157	Thank you very much. Even though this doesn't have to be answered because half of it doesn't even understand what the speaker is saying, and I just have to say for the sake of fact. I've never been burned down by any object, I've worked and in the private sector, I've graduated from college and business school, I've been educated and we have certain experience, it's something that citizens need to know, because someone who might be following the Parliament on a superficial basis and taking these words seriously, Mr. Culei. Thank God very few people take him seriously. And for the youngest who follow us today, children are not spoken of for purpose but purpose, so you know that you wouldn't accidentally think that Mr. Culey is giving you information and teaching you grammar. So don't do it, it's said to bring purpose, not purpose. So here's what I was going to say for those youngest who are watching us here today, third, fourth grade primary school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182158	Mr. Lonchar is on his way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182159	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues. When it comes to this proposal of the Law on Unrated Building Land, I agree, in part, because it has been a long time since privatisation, and that the problem has neither tried to solve or was in favour of some or some groups that have used it until today. The reason why this land did not fall into the foundations of... the companies and the assessment and value of the same at the time of conversion was exclusively used by companies that did not want to have a commitment to their own state, and all for the sake of legal obligation, the collection of rents either through concessions, purchases or the right to build. I know that there are societies that have become the bearer of objects, camps, etc. by privatization. who have been sold to the private sector in the meantime, and have never settled their debts to the local administration unit and have now used the law on legalisation of buildings, in the same way they expect from this bill when it comes to tourist construction land. I am for the development and investment in the tourism sector to solve unresolved land problems, or property, but not at all costs. It is a large building area of the most valuable in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore it is necessary to well determine what this law brings through the studies in terms of new values of investment in tourism and what kind of tourism or employment. As far as the scope of tourist land is concerned, I must say that there has been a change compared to the real situation since the first formation of the Republic of Croatia, where the newly created municipalities and cities of tourist land in spatial plans will increase so that the real state should first be determined, register the holder and then choose a legal path to solve the tourist land and by what value. Furthermore, difficult cadastar preparations should... and not allow the areas on which buildings and camps were now increased by joining particles as soon as they were no longer in favour of society. As far as the unit cost of the lease is concerned, I believe that the titleholders of ownership should do so, not just the Republic of Croatia for all. There is an additional problem in the catastrian municipalities where there are largely campes, half in one, half in the second Catastrian municipality. in two municipalities or the city. I wonder how to implement it and how to form a whole? If, and it is an obligation that anyone who used the building land was required to build a family home and other purposes must pay the same exclusively to the market value of authorised experts, then I should not be the exception to anyone. As far as distribution of funds is concerned, it is necessary to guide who has equipped the land, provided conditions for tourism, because I think it is the key to further providing the funds necessary for further development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia. I propose that we correct and supplement this law by the second reading and give more confidence to the units of local administrations that are the main initiators and operators of tourism development, which confirms a single-static practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182160	Thank you, too. Yes, you do have one replica, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182161	Thank you very much. Mr. Loncar, I'm interested in this Mr. Tulio Demetlika said something about the proposal, what do you think as the same leader of the local self-government unit on this proposal to try to define the property of the land owned by units of local self-government? So I think you could use the rent to effectively develop a tourist offer, I think it's a correct proposal. And here I call on everyone to try to agree on it, the state would mean some less revenue, but it would be a part of the decentralisation of certain funds that local self-government units would then try to do, and this is about municipalities and cities, and it could be used in a way that would be much more efficient, I'm sure than what the state level uses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182162	Answer, Mr. Lonachar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182163	Comrade Maras, I agree with you in part when it comes to that fee. However, it is visible from this bill and I am convinced that this will most likely be corrected. There are no units involved of local administrations that can on their working bodies or municipal councils and city charges be they 10, 5 or 12 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182164	Nice. Let's move on. Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182165	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues are talking about a law as I have already said in the debate on behalf of the club that is trying to solve a particular problem. So what we have a situation is the following, we objects, objects in space exist, objects in space are used that land is brought in by more or less different purposes and we actually have the next situation. Trade companies cannot further develop their business unless we resolve how it will work on that land, and the state and local self-government units and regional self-government at this point do not have some benefits but only have a problem. So that's the purpose and purpose of this law. This law should be looked at in a limited way, related to this problem, and it should be seen how to solve all the elements of this problem, and here in this law should be seen where this law has certain elements with normal, I mean normal, this is lex specials with laws that solve this problem. Because if those laws we have and those that solve this problem could solve this law, there wouldn't be. I'll go from the end, or I'll go from the end. Everyone wants his real estate recorded in a catastra and a garnery. What is the problem of this country is the problem of the catastra and the gruntovnica, and you can see it here. So the problem is because you have one procedure in the catastro, another procedure in the garter, when you do the cadastre, then you get a solution and it's two or three years and then you come to the garland and it starts from the beginning. This law must provide the grounds for how this land can be recorded in a cadastre, and further solved in a garter and I will close there, there is this problem which is which, this problem you went to deal with in accordance with the provisions of the Roads Act and here the problem of the constitutionality of this law can be opened and it should be taken into account. My suggestion is that between the first and second readings you sit down and see how to solve it, because on that part, we have a 2010 law that also tried to solve the problem, which has not solved the problem, for which we all, you are well in the explanation and in the opening part of this law listed all the elements that were the problem of that law in 2010, why you did not solve the problem, where you met up with where you found the closed door, so do not repeat the mistake. Do not repeat that this error was made in 2010 goes on. So it's from the end. Now let's move on. I'm not going to repeat what I said about forming a procedure in space, with the formation of a particle and everything else, you, if you want something to be defined differently, you have to define it by this law. Because this law, according to him, is not in charge of implementing only you, so this law will be implemented to you by bodies issuing local, building permits, or a solution to determine a particle, and I will be a little reference to the Ministry of the Sea and everything else related to concessions on the maritime good. You said here that in these cases concessions on the maritime good are going on demand, which I think is the only logical thing. Because that crazy thing that we had before in the law that you have a hotel that goes to the sea, you have a baby, and now that this one wants to solve his baby, it's a good example to me maybe someone will refer to me even though I won't be offended by Biograd, who had a hotel, had a baby and according to the laws for that baby they used there was supposed to go concession to the competition. It's just that someone snaps their necks and says, imagine you're running everyone and you're running a concession in front of a hotel, and everything's tied to somebody else. Now, that concession on request is defined by the concession law. Sit down once again with the Ministry of the Sea, the infrastructure not to say the wrong name now, so you have in the concession law the possibility of concession on demand and you have the Maritime Law which did not fully comply with this law. You define a concession with this law on demand as far as possible, it should be said not to put yourself in a situation where someone will go to the concession so that they don't tell him, and so I'm sorry you're going to the competition because it's according to this. So, all that you want to prescribe with this law, and in a different way, this law has to be defined to the end because if it's not defined until the end, everything will fall to your option when there's a reference that will say, I'm sorry you have to do it. That's when you do lex specialis important. I get to the part where I kind of imagine that I know a lot about it, I have to admit that somehow when it's both a catastrophe and a garter, I have some kind of long-term experience. I am absolutely convinced that in this country, so this is a little off topic, that in this country there will be no serious shifts related to investments from the family house to the rest if for 6%, we have 6% of the building land, 6% of this country has a building area. If for those 6% we don't make a unique process of catastrophe and garland and we don't fix it, so in this country there won't be a shift until then, but it's out of this topic. What I want to show you, I want to point out to you the Law of Spatial Planning. You have stated in the provision of Article 14(3) that from the date of entry into force of this law no valid spatial plan will be applied in the part of which the camp space or part of the camp space which is the subject of this law is intended for a second purpose and that the camp is considered to meet the requirements of the spatial arrangement. I know what the team wanted, so you have the situation of these 70 and some camps, that it's in the reality of the camp, and that the spatial plan that came out and out of it is no longer a camp, but I don't know the tourist zone and everything, it doesn't matter what. You want that camp as long as it's nowhere to put it into function that it works, but this provision is there for you, how it will form that building particle when it has to be referred to on a spatial scale, no way. So we have such cases that you have one purpose of space, another purpose is a spatial plan different. You want what's in the space to bring the purpose to work the way it needs to work, and that's basically how it should be defined, defined by the existing state, and here you are, the problem that I see here is the next. If that camp is illegal, if that camp doesn't have any, no useful permission, if it hasn't legalized anything, you'll hardly have that existing camp that's in the nature of the camp, and the spatial plan isn't defined, further solve. So here I'm just warning you of some things to sit and deal with, so there's your marine resort, there's your judiciary, there's your spatial arrangement. I, in principle, really think that the only way to solve this is to have a lex specialis. Because otherwise we can't, if we could solve it. Well, only lunatics wouldn't rent some land, develop tourism, and the rest, I hope we're not that big of a nutter in this country. But that's where you cut yourself with this and you need to define it because it's your leg, so there's your leg in the back that the law in that part won't be possible to implement, or you'll have trouble implementing it. And I'm coming up, I'm not going to at all, I think we've already said a lot about it that should be the same coefficient, I personally think it's a good thing that you're giving that land in the first stage of the lease, so when someone starts to develop the project that's then the second phase of the sale. We have the Land Assessment Act, as the value is estimated, the land and it will probably be used, you have those 3 methods, positioning, parallel, marketable, and then there will be an estimate of how valuable the land is, there will be problems. Perhaps this law, too, will read, so there should be little view of the Assessment Act, as they estimate, of those 3 methods, of whether these methods are acceptable to land. I haven't done that far-reaching, but I'm warning you to do that analysis that when the land is to be evaluated, there's a court expert who's not going to have a problem and we come up with what I'm absolutely sure should be defined in law. The law should define and not leave it to the regulation, and this is the way that I will be compensations for the first and the basic one for the lease, related to concessions and defined by some specific law, here only in the law, and regarding land assessment, this law has been in force since 2015, it also applies to the unit of local self-government when it comes to the transition of individual land, he, I appreciate that he is very correct, but I am not sure that these methods will cover what is there and there is a little more thought about it and see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182166	Thank you, too. Mr. Maras, come in. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182167	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Mrak-Taritash, in your debate you mentioned that in this area, land is paid a certain fee, which I find particularly interesting when it comes to concessions, of course, it is given on the basis of a tender. Here you will be able to rent to those who have certain economic facilities or properties nearby and already use it in a way long period of time. Which, in your opinion, would be a fair fee, given that it certainly won't be able to go to the competition here, and it's important that the state in one position can't at any time, whether in five or 20 years' time blackmailing entrepreneurs by raising prices to that limit when it's not going to be worth it anymore. So it needs to be realistic and to determine a price that would not be subject to any change but rather be determined in a way that would potentially cover the depreciation of the very value of that land.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182168	Thank you very much. Answer, ma'am. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maras, therefore, which means a fair price for rent, I really, really find it hard to get out of here, from this place, to say something. What I know is defined is next. Concessions and the amount of concession are defined by a special law and these concessions, when it comes to tourism, so when it comes to tourism and maritime good, they can only go on demand to use because everything else can only cause trouble. Regarding the assessment of the sale, we have this law that I have warned and said that there are little comparisons or that, and market methods and everything else, but what I think is also in the replica, colleague Marić minister, he mentioned some amounts, so I am sure that both in the ministry and given some amounts, and it is good to define it in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182170	Mr. Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182171	Thank you, Vice President. My esteemed colleague, Dark-Taritash. You well warned the ministry not to make mistakes with this law as well as with those in 2010, calling for co-operation with other ministries. You mentioned concessions on the maritime good and one more thing I would add, and I agree with all that you have stated is precisely this resolution of the maritime good relationship which provides for this bill in Art. 12. Namely, a company that has placed and transformed into a conversion of objects that are now on the maritime good, is obliged to move, i.e. to work out a solution to the shift of the maritime good line. If he doesn't, the facility becomes owned by the Republic of Croatia. I ask the question, will this process also open new possibilities for opening new court proceedings and disagreements between hotel companies, as well as the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182172	Here you go, ma'am. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182173	Thank you very much, colleague Demetlika. That's got a lot of problems. If there were no such problems, I am sure that one change of the 2010 law would be made in the part where problems can be seen to be solved and the 2010 law continues to apply. Over time it has proved to be too much of a problem and that it cannot be used. So at this point we're thinking and talking about a special law that needs to be solved by a special problem. I'm warning you what I see here is a problem, I'm warning it based on some experience we've had, so there's not a single government, there's nothing that's trying to pass any law that would be faster operational because we have the law as much as you want, but when you get into that process with those laws that we have, you're always at the closed door, and I'm experiencing this law as one operational law. to solve problems [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And I point to problems. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182174	Thank you, Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182175	Dear colleagues, I'll just have one question, it'll be brief. By which land assessment law you paid EUR 340,00 in Osijek for POS flats, if the price there was EUR 40,00 and your transaction in 2013 when you were Minister Radomir Cacic said that this was clearly a crime, that I am not talking about Gunja and overestimated recovery per square, I am not an expert in great mathematician, but I know well how much cement goes on the mixer, how much sand, how much sand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182176	Thank you very much, so it's always the same...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182177	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dark Tarrit, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182178	Yeah, I'm sorry, I'm a little speeding up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182179	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182180	So, always the same questions and always the man wonders if he's answering you again, but I think it's for the public to answer. So, first and foremost, when it comes to POS in Osijek, there is also a law on stimulating housing that was in force at the time, which was now in force, which has been complemented in the meantime and what I have had the opportunity to see in the paper that 1000 new apartments are planned to build exactly under that law and exactly according to that model that was also in 2013, which has been complemented in recent times in accordance with the things that have changed. And regarding Gunja, I suggest you go there and see what was done in Gunja, that 1,000 residential buildings were renovated in Gunja, 218 new housing facilities were built, 40 public buildings were renovated, and that it was all along with enrolment in the cadastre and grantovnica. It cost 800 million kuna. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182181	Thank you. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182182	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, you mentioned concessions and these hotel situations and that is, hotels and that is one really open question to discuss. We have a bunch of examples that we have investors who invest tens of millions of euros in a 4-5 star hotel, then on the beach in front of that hotel they have a concession or concession approval where, I don't know, 10g. 15 invested in these beaches, in these facilities, I can't go there, I don't know, they have catering facilities, so the music beats him, bothers their guests, so they have no control over it at all, no influence on it, and they pay huge things, we expect people to invest in tourism then, and on the other hand they can't, I can't do anything here. One of the big problems is to establish the limit of maritime good, we have miles of our coast where no maritime good limit has been established at all, so it can't even go into concessions that stop development again. Mostly this is one topic to talk about, we need to deal with it, and not talk about different types of concessions in the jurisdiction of the county, concession approval of the local unit, and then we have state concessions, etc., we mainly have a full chaos on the concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182183	The answer to Mrs. Crescent's Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182184	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. So we just need to know what we want, whether we want to develop tourism and have hotels, and then the concession to use the beach in front of that hotel to go to a public competition and if it goes to a public competition, someone else will get it. Or what we're trying to say is what's important to us is the development of tourism, we want to develop top-notch tourism and these concessions in front of the hotel are good concessions on demand, so it's the concessionist who has the hotel. It seems to me that the time has come to tell my people, let's not do crazy things, our interest is that this hotel is working, that it's full, that there are more stars, that the more people there are doing, that the more they earn, and then let's not tie their hands to me, and otherwise that concession on demand, I think that's, that it's much better and much fairer than we are playing with this openness and transparency, and we're actually tying our hands to the one who runs the hotel.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182185	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas, we're moving on with individual debates, Mr. Maric, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182186	Thank you, dear vice president, respected ministers with associates, there are two, two areas of insufficient use and wrong use in the Republic of Croatia, which is the area of concessions and maritime goods, which is a true wealth of the Republic of Croatia and there is a third area that is almost untapped, which represents the largest basis for investment, for economic growth, for the recovery of the Republic of Croatia, to be the generator of renaissance of the Republic of Croatia and to be, and that the Republic of Croatia has a new look of its face, and this is an unestimated land in the process of conversion and privatisation. And every day without this law is a day of lawlessness, every day without this law is a day of damage to the Republic of Croatia and so day after day, so on 25. And that's how it damages more than 2.5 billion kuna. And this law solves the most crucial economic part of the Republic of Croatia, so much it opens up opportunities for investment, employment and fostering economic growth that these are inconceivable, for our scales of inconceivable opportunities. No law has been prepared so thoroughly, professionally, clearly, seriously, ethically, as this law and transparently. It is known who noticed the need for his adoption, who wrote it is known when he was in public debate, who gave all suggestions and what suggestions in the public debate and what will be the effects and what is the value. My colleague Sagar, he's not here, he says he's missing, he doesn't mention what the value of all this is. So I'm free to say that the total value of the entire land is more than 8 billion kuna, somewhere between 8 billion and 10 billion kuna, if it's a market value and it's about 25 million squares. 15 million squares of camps and 10 million squares of other tourist land. You squares, 25 million are almost as a rule along the shores of the most beautiful sea in the world. It's just saying what potential that is. There was also the price of the lease that was to be discussed here. It was proposed after all because the law was being prepared for a year and a half, consultations of all participants in the process, all those who could contribute, went with a proposal of 12 kuna. I am sure that this price is now in the bill, so that it would cause a debate and of course would lead to a final conclusion whether it was 12 or 10 or 15. Personally, I believe that without any false complex, there is a person in Croatia who is more and deeper immersed in this problem than I am. And that as important as this area is, it is less important whether the price is 13 kn or 10 kn than it is to get rid of it. But the price below 10 kn and plus all these coefficients, I don't think it should be. And that it would be good if she were in law and I suggest she come back after her first reading into the law so we don't get ambushed by the devil because it's not good and it can come to that. It's said that the ministry insisted... to adopt a regulation because the European Commission will say it is support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in this same law, it says that land with an object that didn't enter the underlying capital, without compensation goes to the owner of the facility, that there's no support, where there's no price at all, where there's zero kuna. So it's a fig leaf of support and there's no reason to justify that the price is not in the law. Imagine the Budget Law that we are bringing to the Parliament and we say that the Government will by regulation bring the cost of each ministry and the amount of expenditure and most of all other institutional units. I think it's unnecessary and there's no excuse for that. And this would make it more transparent, clearer and clear, too, that when the law comes into force, it can be applied, this way, when the law comes into force, it won't be possible to apply because there's no price, we'll wait for the regulation. And someone who passed the law to the Parliament and passed the law doesn't know the most important element of that law. There is no most important element in the law, I think it should be avoided and that we should not fail, and when the Minister said the Resolute Ministry is second, the Ministry of Not, for this law is the Ministry of State Property and for tourism is the Resolute Ministry of Tourism and this law is a Resolute Ministry of Tourism. And how is it that the ministry didn't make that proposal when we were doing that proposal, when we wrote that law, but then it gave under an exception now the ratios of power have changed. That's not good. And what is most valuable, most needed and best in the Republic of Croatia, there is no law of this law. It doesn't exist. Just return it and determine in the Assembly the price to be in the second reading. So we already have existing laws, which also predicted that the government would set the price by regulation. You know what's set? To account for 3 kn per 50% of total surface area. Who determined that the Republic of Croatia owns 50%? No one's ever established a surface, let alone a 50%. There is no camp in Croatia in which the Republic of Croatia owns 50%, does not exist. As it is possible that someone past the Parliament itself, past the law decided to establish 50% and the largest area that does not belong to the Republic of Croatia is 5% to 6% in the worst case scenario. And then he says that regulation will apply 2% of the total camp's income on half of the total income because half of the camp is not Croatian. And imagine, no one has ever asked why 25 years of damage to the Republic of Croatia, which is nominally 2.5 billion kuna? Because someone decided to regulate it. They've done well. So let's not make mistakes now, I was also against that law in 2011, but I know, I wrote this law day, night with my associates and no one had any objections that the price was in the law. Now all of a sudden it turns out to be the biggest problem. And imagine, just remove it, we have the most precious thing that the Republic of Croatia has. We have a basis for solving so many court proceedings, so many unresolved relationships, so many complex situations and creating a basis for investment for development. And I said, it wouldn't be convenient for the Parliament here to think that the price at the camp shouldn't be below 10 kn, that that price by regulation should be lower than if the Parliament thought that this law was passed, it doesn't think it should be higher than 12 kn, so someone brings 20. I'll just say for comparison. If this land were to go to the competition, it's worth a minimum of 40 to 50 kn but it can't go to the competition, it's complicated, it's big minds that have passed such laws since the '90s, which are so bad laws, I don't know if someone did them on purpose, it doesn't matter, but the bad ones that we've been suffering for 25 years. I think we just need to apply such a law now, and be careful, the law that has 47 articles, the clearest, simplest, most transparent, just put the price inside whatever parliament is agreed on, so Parliament brings and laws and solve the permanent problem, we solve, and I'll just tell you as an example, if it counts 12,00 kn per m2, in 50. The difference is also 7.00 kn, you know how much, 3 billion and 750 million kuna, so much difference, 3 billion and 750 million kuna, so let's not play with such figures, and I'm sure almost everyone in the ministry understands and that, to see that the price has to be in the law, but that they don't overcome the sense of those who 25 g. They sit by the institutions as second-guests of some others, and that, who run them behind the curtains, Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182187	But you've got a few replicas, so you'll be able to continue, Mrs. Poirot. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182188	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Maric, you have actually based your debate on the subject of the price that must be in the law. When I spoke on behalf of the club, I said that lately it has become a common method that when we pass the law, then we say that we will adopt the regulation and that we do not adopt those regulations and until there is no regulation there is no law. That means if that regulation were already in force at the Ministry, if it were, so when the law comes into force that after a month you have a regulation, everyone would say okay, I agree with you completely, the law must respond to all the elements. When one ministry adopts the law then if it transfers that part of the law is implemented by some other ministry, it must define the rules of the game. Of course the price is in the law to discuss in this House, he gave you 10, 12 or 15, that's when Dr. Rukavina says put 12, but why isn't that price in the law, it's actually a key question and my replica to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182189	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182190	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Dark-Taritash, you always speak rationally, but when it comes to the laws, I must honor you. When you have good remarks, good remarks, and you accept these remarks, you will not vote for that law again. You didn't, you didn't, the only time in your life when you gave up the amendment as an opposition to two amendments, I accepted both amendments, and you didn't vote for that law, take a phonogram, go see, by the number of votes you didn't support, imagine you're not voting for what... [[I am for yours.]] Then I'm afraid that even now if all your suggestions were accepted so that you wouldn't support the law again. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Great, then I accept, so I've been here a little while, I wasn't sure how you're going to do it. [[I said on behalf of the club.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182191	Please, without dialogue, only the replica is the dialogue is that, one says, the other fits. Mr. Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182192	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Marić, at the very introduction you said that the Republic of Croatia has great potential and you mentioned what is on maritime good, tourist land, but there is certainly much more, I would quote the same agricultural land, drought area, meaning all the potentials that the Republic and the same treatment for the same word will somehow be intended. What you have as an experienced economist calculated how many millions, how many billions, but you need to see who will pay it and how it will be negotiated because you still need this partnership relationship between hotel companies, local self-government units and the state, if the state imposes some price that is imposed, and it will not be good and there will be a burden or coercion for hotel companies, the question is how much of this tourist land is taken over by the hotel company since large constructions, especially in tourist settlements cannot happen, can possibly build additional content. So, the revenues they're going to make, and you forgot to just say that what you mentioned was 12,00 kn that it's m2 and that's a year, right? So we have to simply take into account and accept those remarks which the hotelers gave them to [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] Consideration of when [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] They define prices. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182193	Thank you. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182194	Thank you very much. Col. Demetlika, not a price of 12.00 kn, which was included in the draft law from the sleeve, is the result of a two-year analysis and conversation with all the factors and all the participants in the process, and it is visible from the results of the public debate, here are all the comments, write to me somewhere where it is, read me if the remark is that the price should be regulated by a regulation, and not by law, it is nowhere. Secondly, the price of £12.00 is so reasonable, the market is €50.00, and how can someone who wants to buy the camp look at this and invest twice as much as the one who owns it for the past 25 years? And he paid almost nothing and he paid it five times more, and he can't, which is the biggest injustice in the history of the Croatian economy to reward him with even greater injustices, not this. This is logical and just [[Intruder: Time]] and acceptable to all, but they are not. [[Intruder: Thank you]] The tourist societies didn't say they were expensive. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182195	Mr. Križanić is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182196	Thank you. Mr. Maric, the privatisation was almost 30 years ago. And then some particular land was put into privatisation, and someone didn't and now the new owner of a business facility that bought a business facility didn't have an impact on it, gave this land was put in, in privatization or not, and I'm interested in the need to level the practice of establishing land for regular use of the building, and I don't agree that the land was enough to use the building just below the building because what we would do then would work, if you bought such a building you couldn't even walk to it, let alone with a truck or for the use of the activity, so that this land would be determined much larger than just under the building and that by direct buying it from or renting it can be determined by that new owner that you can buy the land or get it, or get it. [[Intruder: Time]] I'm renting it. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182197	Thank you very much, Mr. Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182198	Thank you very much. Kola Križanić, this bill and foresees this very solution, that the property that is under the building is obtained by the owner of the building without compensation, and the rest can be bought or leased, can be bought at an estimated value, so it can form a building particle and can buy. So, this, this bill solves everything, he's a real pearl of the Republic of Croatia which the law hasn't seen yet, the Republic of Croatia hasn't seen such a law, only this little bit of wrinkles in the shoe, and let's not let because of someone's particular these shoes get us all together one day, that's all I'm saying, but that doesn't reduce the value of the law and the necessity of the law, so it should, just this law just justified the existence of the Ministry of State Property, just to get this law passed, that he didn't do anything anymore, he did more than all the ministries of the other, how important it is to the Republic of Croatia. But let's build the price into the law. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182199	Thank you very much, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182200	Thank you. My colleague Marić, listening to your debate, came to the conclusion that there are three important factors for me, which is why it is necessary to pass this law, such land is only 10 million m2, only 10 million in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, the damage so far is 2.5 billion and the third solutions so far are not legally applicable, e.g. The funding from the concession fee is used to develop tourism infrastructure, etc., 60% is paid into a tourism development fund that has never been revived, so here are these 3 moments I think is enough to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182201	Mr. Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182202	Well, my entire debate was also to ensure that this law must not have the same disadvantages that were so far inconclusive, and by which no legal action has been made, from 2011 to this day, according to the existing law that everyone has praised, no legal action has been carried out, it's just not about 10 million, forgive me for having to fix you, 10 million squares, it's about 14 million and 200 000 squares of campsites and 10 million squares of other tourist land, so it's about 20 almost 5 million squares, unrepeated squares, there's nowhere else to be, there's never going to be in the world of such squares, there aren't, and that't why we have to be so sober here, so clear, and it's going to be the law that our grandchildren are going to admire, and not why our grandchildren are going to call us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182203	Let's move on, Mrs. Devereaux. Branka Juričev Martinchev, here you are, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182204	Thank you very much, Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, so here we all agreed that it was necessary to approach the new Law on Unrated Building Land and all praise that it goes in two readings in the parliamentary procedure because I am sure that all these remarks, proposals that could be heard today, that the ministry will once again consider and see what it is that can be put into the final draft of the law in order for it to be as high and better and not to happen what happened with the previous law that has since 2010. He didn't make it back to life. In fact, we have heard that there are only 76 camps of 14 million and 100 000 m2 which, according to the new law, are finally to be obtained and financial, and for them are to be paid a certain amount of money that will then be added to the state, city and county budgets, today the revenue based on the camps is only 32 million kuna, and according to some estimates and this law it should amount to more than 130 million kuna, when it is divided according to this key 65 million for, in the state budget, 26 cities and municipalities and slightly less than 20 million counties, as much fund, then we can only imagine how much we have been denied all these years for some new investments of these funds. Also, if sales are made, 6 billion kunas are projected. When it comes to tourist land on this basis is significantly lower income, only 10 million kunas that are also divided into the amount that goes to the fund, the city, the municipality and the county, according to estimates and this law should now be 6 times higher. However, it is not only, I benefit from the damages that we have not put into the right regime which requires us to have already many guests and tourist employees or owners of these companies that have hotels, camps and so on would have invested in them if they knew under what conditions they could make certain contracts, whether they were buying, renting, concessions or something else. We now say and see that since we have more and more quality tourist accommodations that the guest on average spends more in the Republic of Croatia than he did in earlier years, we also boast with figures that we have an increasing number of arrivals and overnights, as well as in the past 2019. We recorded 5% more arrivals and 2.4% more overnight stays, but this investment and the regime that should be in camps and tourist land would certainly contribute to even better results. I must also say, as some colleagues have previously noted, that I must express my dissatisfaction, for example. The Sibenik-Knin County from which I come together with Zadar should be paid a greater amount of the unit price of the rent than is the case, for example. in Split-Dalmatia or Dubrovnik-Neretva County, so I would like to ask you to consider why these initial amounts, or the unit rates of the lease, differ with the coefficients of the ranking, are being reduced to the amounts related to the camps on the islands by 10%, as well as those in which the more significant funds are invested, so they are categorized by 4 stars, so they are again shrinking by 5% and those with 5 stars by 10% and one more cartoons, which are clear to us, e.g. in the first part, in art. The 21st century 3. says that the initial amount of the unit rent for the camp in Ličko-Senjska and continental and similar islands has a coefficient of 0.7, and then in the next paragraph, it is again reduced by 10% for campsites on the islands, each island belongs to a particular county, meaning either county, then -10% related to the islands or all islands will have a coefficient of 0.7. As for the problems that were in 2010 says among other things, units of local self-government could not enroll in the right of ownership on tourist land because there is no criteria for determining the scope of that land. I think there's going to be a lot of trouble finding out what it is to regularly use a tourist facility either a hotel or a camp. Namely, if we remember that the Roads Act that came into force in July 2011. talks about roads and belonging land, parking lots and the like, you will know for sure that numerous camps or almost all and camps and hotels have certain roads leading to the beaches and the parking lot. Of course, as the law entered in July 2011, I would say that there will almost be no mayor or municipal chief who did not want to register and take certain actions and resolve property legal relations on these particles, and now in art. 100. The road law says that the unclassified road makes road construction, so now it lists everything and other surfaces, on the corresponding land of green area, parking lots and the like. Furthermore, the unclassified road is public good in general use owned by a city or municipality in which it is located and cannot be alienated. So, regardless of whether it was evaluated or not, according to this law, cities and municipalities were registered and as it says, the roads used on the day of entry into force of this law and which are accessible to a larger number of users become unclassified roads and, of course, I was the mayor at the time we all took the shops to register as city halls. Of course, our hotelers have also filed lawsuits and that there are long-standing court disputes, it would be good to know what will happen with these roads and these parking lots, there have been some more skilled ones that have fenced it, so they have put the ramp of course after this date, some before that date, there are different variations like my colleague Babic said, I know that it is very difficult for you to adapt the law to each individual case, but I think it would be good not to, I don't know, that cities or municipalities are mass-losing disputes or depending on the judge to get a dispute somewhere, and somewhere to get a unit of local self-government because even in these formulations when saying camp in this law, the camp is a business-functioning whole of tourist land and construction located in space and in a rule of a fence or similar obstacle to adjacent properties, it is also known to be and live, and it's not going to be in the same way that it's that they'll be in the parking, so it's that I'll be funny. The city of Vodice has repeatedly sent an inquiry to the Privatisation Fund and we have never received an embossed land assessment, we have received solutions, but the elaborates are not. As my colleagues pointed out, I think the same thing when it comes to maritime good that we should see it, the long-awaited new Law on maritime goods that we still do not have, according to yours now you are the competent ministry that will discuss and decide these things and, of course, when it comes to tourism land on which hotels and tourist land are built, it also says here that everything that has not been evaluated and entered into the core capital of a company, and it serves as a regular use or construction, is owned by a unit of local self-government, and the rest of the tourist land is owned by the Republic, so I come back to that inquiry about parking lots, roads, where to pull the border? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182205	Thank you, too. Mr. Bacic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juričev Martinchev, I agree with you that it is good that the law provides for a reduced rate for the calculation of the rent if it is a camp on Croatian islands, I am not even sure that 0.7 is agreed to value the location and location of the campsite on islands, since, as a rule, tourists in the camp are on the road, who come by vehicles, and the price of ferry tickets, and therefore limits the possibility of quality camp construction especially on those further islands where they are, where the higher prices of the ferry are. And another thing that I would agree with you, which I've already said in part, is the position of concessioning maritime goods. Namely, as you know, the Maritime Good Act is gone, there is no concession on demand, so it goes to the competition, so it needs to be settled as soon as possible through the Maritime Good Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182207	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182208	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bačić, when I was talking about my Sibenik-Knin County, but I agree that really islands have to be even lower coefficients, so the ratio of 0.7 can be even lower, and as far as the rest of our coastal counties are concerned, I think we should all be even, that neither our cities or municipalities get a higher amount because our host, or company that operates in our area, has a camp or tourist facility, pays more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182209	Mrs. Devereaux. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182210	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleague Juričev Martinchev, you have also touched in your debate on the formation of a building particle or what it is. It's not easy to solve. So, if there was a simple solution I hope it would be, but it's not good what's in the law because it's going to cause the next problem, so if already in the debate in the first reading we all point out what you have is not good, it needs to be solved, it seems to me that the solution is the procedure in the space that makes that one uniquely useful whole of tourist use, to make it a solution and then it's known what it is. Therefore, a little check, a little bit solved, is never good at solving the mess with another mess, so the mess should be solved even when we know that the problem is because in this way one other body will issue a solution and apply its generic parent law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182211	Thank you very much. Here's your answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182212	Thank you very much, exactly, colleague Mrak-Taritash, I'm also afraid if we don't define exactly what it is, that these are belonging objects and belonging land that we're going to have new court disputes that last again, we're going to lose all these assets that we're talking about today and not say that all those litigation disputes we have so far can come into a new situation and a new problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182213	Let's move on with the debates, Mr. Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, so I also welcome the adoption of this law since I feel that as did the predecessors before me, this one from 2010. He did not give some results and that it was necessary to access the new law on amendments. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity in this debate and stress as well as my colleagues at the SDP Club that the economic viability coefficient as the biggest observation may be in, in this law should be regulated until the second reading and I think that all counties should have the same, so that they should not be singled out, categorized by county, so the difference between the Primorje-goranska and the rest of Istria compared to the Dalmatian counties, I think that when the camps are at all equal and I think there are some illogical developments, so again and colleagues before me have spoken according to the current solution if this remains the same coefficient for example in Delnice or Fužine, in Gorski Kotar as well, and, for example. in the coast in some places in Istria, which cannot possibly be the case. The same thing is with islands, not all islands are equal, some of these are more attractive and closer to others, so there shouldn't be any difference in coefficients or I join colleagues who think that the coefficient should be the same for all counties. The second thing, I think so far, is that we should also point out that we've waited 30 years. to solve these problems and that a great deal of damage has been done because of this, because of all this which has not been settled so far, and I think it is much bigger than what the former Minister Maric pointed out because the blocking of economic investment in these areas because this was not arranged is a damage that cannot be measured or difficult, so this and I will be restrained in this law and appeal to you in the ministry to accept the remarks that we made in this, in this first reading. The other thing I want to put the same emphasis on, and these are concessions, I think it's one big area that opens up economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, and that the current concession system requires one new dimension or one upgrade, and I think we should think about a concession on demand instead of a concession based on competitions and there are a series of examples that are highlighted here and I'm going to also highlight some, so we have examples that we are waiting for investment in tourism, waiting for investors in tourism, here and in my town is the French after 30. We have a private investor who has invested huge funds in, investing and raising the hotel's category, so after 20 years. We welcomed a big investment, and in the area outside the hotel there is a beach that has no concession for the past 10 years, so the last concession expired in 2009. And since then, there has been no concession from the county but already 10. the beach grants on the basis of concession approval. Now, the concession approval goes year after year and the one that gets that concession approval year after year is illusory to expect it to have some serious investment in that beach since it is not safe to expect it until the second year. So, on the other hand, if the concession on that beach goes to a competition and is not given to whoever has a hotel or one who has a hotel is in the same situation that someone else who calls can get that concession in front of that hotel, the question is why would he invest in that facility. So he's going to invest 10 million euros on one side in a 4 star hotel, build some content, and then he can get a concession from some entrepreneur who's asking how much investment he has. And then it happens that we have a four-star hotel and a star beach, because we have some catering facilities out there where I don't know how to shake music until early morning, and hotel owners can't have any influence, what's going to happen out there on that beach front and then lose guests, etc. And then it's illusory to expect big investments in some buildings, if those who invest can't later have a beach or a harbor or some object that they can use there. The second thing about concessions is there's still a big mess in Croatia. So we have a number of kilometers of Croatian coast where there is no limit to maritime goods at all. It's in the jurisdiction of the county, so it's again then it can't go into concession and that's how it stands. The second thing is that different levels of concessions that we have today give to the counties, concessions that give cities and municipalities, so we have port areas. Citizens and businessmen don't understand it, so what's the maritime good, what's the port area, what's unconfirmed maritime good, and that's what we need to sort out. I'm sorry we haven't had this new concession law in a very, very long time. This government didn't bring it either, we're going towards the end of the term, I don't think we're going to bring it. We didn't bring it either, all right, but it stands, but that's the problem... no good colleague Bacic was brought in. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] It wasn't brought... So this isn't good now. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] So I'll tell you, here's the port in New Vinodolski where I come from. So in the area of the port of Novi Vinodolski you have part of the port of nautical tourism for which the concession of the state or government of the Republic of Croatia then you have 1/5 and the port managed by the county port administration, then you have one part that is in concession by the county, you have one part that is purely maritime goods managed by the city's municipal company because it charges parking there. That's not normal. The people who live and reside there do not understand at all what is in whose jurisdiction. Then we have a city that's marked in spatial planning documentation at the border of maritime goods, so it's got one meter of shore that's maritime good, the other part that's not, and it's within the port. But why isn't he in there? So the city's company could charge parking there and generate certain, certain revenues. And that's what's on the ground, and the man who acts economically there doesn't understand that I'm today, that I'm in this meter at sea, and I'm no longer a meter on the left. There's another thing you have a pump that works at that port. So you have a piece of shore where that variable part of the concession fee that pays is insane, so if he poured fuel on the left side of the sea, say from the pump station, then he pays the variable part, and if he poured it on land, then he doesn't pay. And then who's gonna figure it out, who's gonna measure it? So we had a situation that the concessionist or the pump that has the concession there said I was 100 thousand liters on the coast, and 800,000 on the mainland. Who's gonna measure it, who can control it? So that's crazy. Either the pump there should be in the marine good or it should be out there, there's no half of it. And that's what's not good, and that's the things we need to talk about and we need to have one uniform criterion at the state level and we need to approach it and we need to get rid of it. And I think it's a good thing my colleagues opened that topic before me, and I think it's a good idea to talk about it. But what we have in practice is one mess and one chaos that needs to be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182215	The first line has Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182216	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers, distinguished MPs, in the process of transforming social enterprises that engaged in tourism activities into the core capital of companies, as a rule, not the estimated land on which hotels and other facilities were built in the function of tourism, but only the buildings were evaluated. It was such a course of privatisation. The tourist land was used without compensation, without concession, and this is a huge profit left by the state. Do you think that what happened to each other is ours and yours, or is HDZ's power alone?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182217	Here's the answer, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182218	I don't know what kind of question this is. It's everyone who hasn't done it so far, not to say another problem that was that the land was one part in one process of the last 20, 30 years that was on which hotels were built, and it was nationalized in the former state, at one point came into ownership of local self-government units, for example. In the town of Crikvenica, I know of such a case, and then in the process of denationalisation, the city was supposed to pay compensation which was also insane, so the city didn't take that part away. So, there's a lot of injustice, and a lot of this illogicality has been done over 30 years of our country, and everybody's responsible for something that hasn't done so far, but I'm afraid some things aren't going to solve this law either, that neither here is a good solution. It is not right, for example, that hotels in whose premises were exiles, refugees during the Homeland War that the state did not compensate these companies and compensated for the damage in 4 years they could not deal with the tourist activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182219	Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Djujic adopts the Law on concessions and is a very good law. However, it is not a problem that this law wants to address the problem of the Law on concessions but rather the Marine Good Law. There is an eternal dilemma when it comes to giving a concession at the request of a beach or a maritime goods bordering the hotel. It's like a half-empty optimist bottle is half full, and for a pessimist it's half empty. That's what you do with a concession on demand. The first thing is the lack of a verified price of concession and concession fee in a public tender and b) that always the hotel owner's wish is limited access to the beach. The lack of this second concession procedure on the basis of a public tender is that the hotel owner says that the beach concessionaire can cause him great problems in the functioning of his hotel and these are the two things he needs solved by the Law on the Sea Good, and also by a new law, and therefore, it would be necessary [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] to the Government as soon as possible [[Intruder: Thank you]] with that law coming here. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182221	Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182222	It's an eternal dilemma, and it's my dilemma of my colleague Bačić and I agree with you there, and I think it's good that we talk about these dilemmas, so maybe we'll come up with someone, some solution, and I agree this law won't solve it, but we need to talk about it. Here, I've mentioned to you now the beach in my town, so that beach is divided into two parts, and now recently the county has opened a tender for one part of that beach which is essentially in the nature of the pool that is in favor of the hotel and now it's going to be like this to you in the competition, you can charge a 50,00 kn entrance in which you will get a deck and a umbrella, who doesn't pay a deck and a parasol 50,00 kn can't go there except for the hotel guests, so it's kind of defined, so it's seen from the plane that the hotel owner will get that beach and what's normal for me because he keeps it, but let's regulate it there, so let's make it a concession on demand that we don't have to do this kind of trick in the contests that everyone together because they know where it's going, let's legal and regulate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182223	Thank you very much, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182224	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Djujic, you have shown an interesting idea, and these are concessions on demand compared to concessions on the tender. I wonder, do you think that, if we use such a solution to mutilate ourselves, there may be a flood of such concessions at the request and a defect that the bodies of the public authorities who decide to do so will find themselves in a situation that they cannot decide within a reasonable time? When we have these concessions in the competition, then they still plan ahead, prepare, decide, etc., just maybe that aspect to explain a little.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182225	Mr. Djujic, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182226	Thank you very much. A fellow Klisovic, I don't think that coming to the flood, it's clear how many hotels we have in front of which we have beaches because, say, we have miles of shore, there aren't miles of hotels everywhere, and I don't think it's normal for someone to invest 20-30 million euros in a hotel, in some facility that has to have some impact on the economic situation in front of that hotel, I don't think it should give him a beach in a way that only makes it possible for hotel guests, I think it should be open to all citizens, but I think that whoever invested huge money in a hotel, must influence whether music on that beach and beats up to 2-3 hours a night, the power has to influence whether there's going to be an object of top category or if there's going to be some sort of container in front of used sunscreen and used old decks, or it's going to be at some level that's going to be in the hotel service if you pay 10. The hotel must then have an adequate beach ahead of that [[/Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Giujic.]] hotel [[Intruder: Thank you]] , and this can be done only [[Intruder: Thank you]] This way. [[And now in the end we have...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182227	Mr. Minister Maria Banozic's closing statement, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182228	Dear Vice President, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, with today's law-telling, we have essentially opened topics that are 25 to 30 years old. where individual parliamentary representatives were witnesses of that time of conversion, the privatisation of companies that definitely left behind problems, problems primarily related to self-determination, which at all entered into the underlying capital, or because it did not enter the underlying capital then referred to as social property, so that certain units of local self-government were enlisted in ownership, even more so as to sell that property to third parties or where the foundation of the law was later entered by the Republic of Croatia, and today we have after the adoption of the 2010 law. This problem that we haven't solved yet, we've solved these issues. Also, the emphasis is that we're talking about companies that are privatized, so we're talking about camps that are privatized, so we're not talking about some new tourist entities, new camps that will be defined by this law. We also have the Law on concessions, and we will also have the Law on Maritime Goods soon, which will continue to close the issues that remain, which we have discussed here today. Therefore, the questions which were raised, and to refer to, the companies that had passed the conversion or privatisation, were primarily related to the parts of how to define the coverage at all, how to define the tourism land that was clearly written in art. 5, 6 and 7 where administrative procedures are concerned, means administrative procedures which will, in their administrative procedure of the law, be defined by the Administrative Procedure Act, mean we simply have a procedure to carry out an official in a particular area where if there is a party-based solution will become one part and slow, which, of course, we cannot satisfy everything on behalf of the law in view of all the details and problems that have accumulated in these 30, 30 g. In addition to this part, the most discussions were precisely at the price, i.e. the distribution of income that will come through the lease on tourist land or camps, the price was at a given moment... As a bill, however, just through discussions conducted primarily by the Resort Ministry and the Ministry of Tourism which we must not ignore, as well as all other resolution ministries that participated in the process of lawmaking, we must simply recognise that, according to what we have been raised, the desire of the tourism sector primarily to discuss the regulation, for a number of reasons why the regulation should, of course, be implemented by the basis of the law or very quickly after the adoption of the law itself, in order for the law to be enforceable, but the regulation must also contain elements within itself which it will be justified for some other bodies, in this case I am talking about the European Commission whether the price that has been mentioned in some discussions as acceptable to the tourism sector, i.e. what was acceptable to the Republic, as a possible price, was primarily related to any analysis that contained several locations. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The analysis now carried out in accordance with the regulation applies, first of all, in accordance with the methods developed by judicial experts and should also contain variables that will justify a certain price which will significantly deviate from the market at that moment. How do you do that if you don't put certain variables in the formula. At this point these are variables primarily related to coefficients that, if not studied well, look like they're represented here. So if a county has a coefficient of 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1, then if we have a unit price of 10 and the coefficient of 1, then the budget goes to 10. So it's better for a local self-government unit. If we have a unit of local self-government where it has 0.7, it means that it will go less than the unit price of the common price that will be defined by the regulation. So that's about the local self-government unit. If you look at the other side of the aspect, you have companies that will pay in Istria County, for example, as you said one coefficient, there will be a price of 10 per square year, then, let's say, if the same company has a Camp in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska or another county, it will pay less, but also does not mean that in Istria it will be 10. So if there's going to be a category or for any other, 4 or 5 stars, you have that special discount, so the new variable, that's 5 or 10% discount. What was the intention of achieving this? Well, just like this law. Encouraging investment. If you have a bigger category, you will pay less annual rent. So the drive is to invest, raise the quality of the facility. On the other hand, it is understandable that certain counties did not position themselves in terms of camps, they do not have that proximity to tourist markets and they have a smaller coefficient, then I am talking about these counties that are south, in the southern part of Dalmatia, also in islands. So on all these coefficients we still have the coefficient and 10% for the islands. So this is an incentive and we need to see well how the EU Commission will view this as a support, so all these variables are designed to help primarily investment in the future, but also to make the law enforceable by institutions that will then follow the work. As far as distribution is concerned, the distribution is also proposed, in cooperation with the resolution ministries, and it is precisely about the dedicated revenues coming from the local self-government unit that we have heard is the most investment in tourism infrastructure and the tourism fund, which is also the means of purpose. I would now withdraw the funds allocated in 2017/2018. Mr. who are much more modest than what we now have at our disposal, we see that just now the coastal districts in which the largest tourist traffic has just withdrawn the most resources for development. So she was going back to the same environment where tourist traffic was being realized. Also, when we talk about the purpose or means that would belong to the county, we know that we had the Law on the System of State Administration and we know that the Countys and that they took over the business of the state administration. A few years ago or over tens of years ago we had a situation for counties to deal with spatial planning, issuing building and location permits for those areas that are outside major cities. So this part of the law applies to them, too, we know that the county and others took over jobs from 1.1.2020 refers to minimum technical conditions, all those jobs that will relate to the work of tourist or catering entities themselves. For these very reasons, these are also the criteria proposed, and of course we are doing what you said here today, accepting, we will continue to talk to the resolution ministries, looking for interpretations. Also, try to see whatever can be implemented until this second reading, and I hope that this will continue to be a constructive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182229	Thank you, too. First replica, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182230	Thank you very much. Here, I wanted to take the opportunity and ask the minister exactly what I asked my colleague, Djujic. How would you think about possible concessions on demand and is that something that could be incorporated into the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182231	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182232	In the very making of the law, there were speeches and suggestions to go to concessions, but what I am saying persists, implementation or promotion of investment to companies that are already there. So we have companies that use certain tourist land and on the other hand, we have a situation where in the Republic of Croatia there is nothing to pay, and on the other hand we have that should provide them with an investment in the future. Concessions as a more complex one-long-term process have its advantages, but also have disadvantages for investors. So now our goal here is to solve the 25-year-old problem, or 30-year-old problem, and I think that's exactly what we're going to do with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182233	Mr. Djujic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182234	Thank you very much, Your Honor. When we talk about the economic cost-effectiveness coefficient, you gave one good explanation on your part, but I don't really agree with it because now you've set an example that some investor who has an example. Camping in Istria or the Primorje-Gorski County, there, the entrepreneur, there will pay more, while if there is the same him and camp in some southern there, the county, there will pay less, and perhaps then will reroute its funds to development and expansion capacity right where it pays less, as we who live in the area of these northern counties that are with a higher coefficient disagree with that, we would like to also expand those capacities with us. Anyway, it's still subject to discussion. We have until the second reading. I just wouldn't want this argument of yours that you gave here right now in your final presentation means that hard not to our proposals and appeals that all counties have the same than that you might tend to consider our proposals, not to stay until the second reading. This concrete attitude. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182235	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182236	I thank you for asking. So this, what I've explained, is exactly what you said. The point is that when you reach 4 or 5 stars that are stimulated in developed counties such as Istria where camps are 4 or 5 stars, you can reroute funds to those less developed. So no one's gonna tell me, and in this year's time, we're not gonna invest in Istrian County for the next 10 years because I'm cheaper than I know in Dubrovnik-Neretvania. The point is that here you strive for more stars or higher quality accommodation because there is another bonus 5 and 10%.../incomprehensible/... at the price. And that's the whole point of the story. As far as this is concerned, everything we've talked about today, of course that we've accepted that everything that's real will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182237	And finally Mr. Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182238	Thank you, Vice President. In your final report, you did not refer to what several of us said in our discussions, and I am primarily referring to a practical situation. Try to imagine that you are the director of a privatisation company and that you are on some kind of territory or particle functionally, and now you have a case to determine what land it serves you for, which will be owned by units of local self-government means that land that serves these buildings and the rest that remains on the Republic. Just put yourself on, just try to project how long it would take you to buy that land, which from the municipality, which from the state to make it simple, here I appeal this way to to try and work it out. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182239	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182240	I'd like to thank the MP for asking. So definitely that we can't cover everything as a tourist land, it would be unfair to charge as if it were being driven by tourist traffic like this one I mentioned. So the part relating to local self-government units is definitely something that is in the interest of local self-government units and the tourist entity itself to make its environment neat. So the land purchase process itself has its own procedure. It will take as long as it takes and I think it will definitely be a much shorter period than what it was 30 years to pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182241	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met, probably tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182242	Proposal for a Law on Unrated Building Land, First Reading, P.Z. No. 805, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, firstly, the Proposal for a Law on Unrated Building Land and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most votes, 77 for, 51 abstentions and 1 vote against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182243	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 796. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Does the motionary's representative, Mr. Joseph Bilaver, want to give an additional explanation? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182244	I thank the Honorable Vice-President HS, respected representatives and MPs, by applying the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, it was necessary to amend the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships in order to comply with the provisions of the Maritime Code, which is different from that provided for by the current Law on the Croatian Register of Ships, regulates the tasks of the determination of navigation capacity and the constitutional certification, and the bazaar of maritime facilities. Moreover, taking into account that the powers of the Croatian Register of Ships, which are not covered by the powers of the statute of certification of maritime facilities, were only partially covered by the current HRB Act and as regards the powers of verification and assessment of compliance under the provisions of the European Regulations and Directives, this will align the provisions of the applicable HRB Act with the powers acquired by the HRB to carry out the tasks of the verification of the tasks of the notified body. In addition to the above, amendments to the current text of the HRB Act are necessary in the part of the regulation of the composition of members of the HRB Board which the Council manages in the work of this institution and in order to comply with the current state of the users of HRB services. For the sake of status changes in societies from which a part of the members of the Governing Council has been appointed by the current HRB Act as well as for the purpose of assessing that only those representatives and experts from the ranks of the HRB are to participate in the work of the same Council, these amendments and additions to the HRB Act propose a new composition of members of the Governing Council to ensure greater transparency in the management of this institution. The adoption of this law is particularly important in the section relating to compliance with the provisions of Regulation No. 391/2009 on common rules and norms for organisations carrying out the inspection and control of ships under which the Republic of Croatia must enable the carrying out of the activities of the statutory certification of the basification of maritime facilities of Croatian state belongings in international navigation other than HRB to carry out other recognised organisations, indicating that the HRB continues to retain the exclusive authority of the statutes of the maritime facilities of Croatian state belonging in national navigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182245	Thank you, too. Mr. Kira's replica. Mr. Kira's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182246	Dear Vice-President, the respected representatives of the ministry, HRB is the follow-up of ship classification activities and everything that goes along with what obligations it has on the eastern coast of the Adriatic. 1858. It was founded by the Austrian Veritas as the third classification house or society in the world. By '92. HRB acts in the composition of the Yugoslav Register of Ships and continues independently. Since 2005, HRB has confirmed the British Standards Institute as meeting ISO 9001 standards requirements. Since 2011 It also has confirmation that it satisfies the classification of the International Association of Classification Companies. Please, apart from the country's offices, there are offices outside the country and these are in Belgrade, Piraeus and Shanghai. Please have any information as to what HRB activity is In those isolated offices out of the country? [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182247	I'm sorry, it's been a long time. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182248	Here, thanks to the question, you well listed some more you left out, namely we are proud that the Croatian Register of Ships is actually competitive and on the apartment market i.e. that apart from what works in Croatia and here has a leading position. It is highly established on the international market. So at this point we have an open and Croatian ship register with open offices in Dubai, Belgrade, Vietnam, Shanghai, and the opening of an office in Piraeus is in preparation. And this is one of the indicators that foreign shipowners recognize the expertise and competence of experts, people who, acting in the Croatian Register of Ships, and also this law goes in terms of their preservation, their good position on the market, but also strengthening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182249	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Ante Bacic, who will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182250	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, such as the Secretary of State, in his opening explanation, presented these amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships and stressed that it is a public institution that performs matters related to the protection of property on the sea and inland waterways, and in relation to the protection of the environment and inland waterways, in particular through this replica we saw ourselves status related to international organisations, but also for the status of the Croatian Register of Ships on the international market, which we should definitely be proud of. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is necessary to amend it normally and to bring it into line with the Maritime Code itself, which regulates certain relations that are related to the sea and related to the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2009 on common rules and standards for organisations that carry out the examination and supervision of the ships themselves. As regards the latest amendments and additions of the Maritime Code to the Croatian Register of Ships, participation in the activities of the statute certification and bazaar of the maritime facilities of Croatian state and other recognised organisations has been enabled. The Law on the Croatian Register of Ships requires changes regarding part of the composition of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Register of Ships, which only the Council which manages and works of this institution, and only those representatives, experts from the ranks of the area directly related to the work of the Croatian Register of Ships themselves, and these amendments and additions of the law through these amendments to the Council will also ensure greater transparency of the management of the institution itself. One of the basic issues that are being regulated is harmonisation, as I have stated about the Maritime Code, but also this regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council itself, where other than the Croatian Register of Ships and other normally recognised organisations will be carried out by competent port captains and other ships. As far as the boats and yachts themselves are concerned, as we have seen in the explanation of this proposal for changes and additions, the length of the troops up to 24 metres in international navigation as well as the Croatian floating stationary from the coastal facility has been maintained exclusively by the Croatian Register of Ships. As regards the Governing Council itself and these amendments concerning these amendments and additions, it has been stated that representatives of shipowners based in the Republic of Croatia will be involved with at least 60% of the total gross tonne of Croatian state-owned ships, which will greatly assist in the very independence and transparency of the management of the work of the institution itself, but normally also in the membership of all these representatives in the Governing Council of this institution itself. As far as these changes are concerned, the HDZ Club will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182251	Thank you, too. Mrs Nada Turina Đuric, will speak in front of the GLASs Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182252	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues, we have before us a law that is absolutely not controversial for the GLASA Club, especially this part relating to compliance with EU legislation and the Maritime Code. However, in this section relating to a new way of appointing a board of directors, I think that perhaps even better quality, we think that perhaps a more qualitative explanation could be made of why it is changing, changing the criteria for membership in the board of directors. Namely, the argument is very short that it will be more transparent. I do not know what this means, given the usual reputation of the Croatian Register of Ships as an institution which is legally determined to carry out certain tasks and for which we all know that so far there has been, even though no objections, even though it is internationally recognised praise for the Republic of Croatia that this is done at a level of high professionalism and it has been a long time with a long history of which we can be proud. From this point on, what has been done so far or what has been done so far has not been sufficiently transparent and will now be much more transparent after which we have a new way or a new proposal much more transparent after which we have a new way or a new proposal for the appointment of members of the board, so I think the public should be doing, and because of us representatives who are going to raise or not raise hands for the proposal of this law, that it is a little bit more clear why it is so, I see that in remarks or public debate there is not a lot of interested, but what would be the real reason for such refusal, and I think that due to our importance it was to have a representative in the governing council, it is not possible for us to see this reasoning as something that would be the real reason for such refusal, but also we generally think that some new system which we have so far had been absolutely transparent and that we have made it all the most important reason for us to be true, so that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that, the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact of the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that, that this is clearly of the fact of the fact that the fact is clearly of the right of the fact is not being that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact of the fact of the right of the fact of the fact of the fact is that the fact is not being that it that the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182253	Thank you, too. It is now in front of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182254	Thank you, Vice-President, honourable secretary-general with associate, colleague and fellow MPs, this before us is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on HRB, this bill is in line with the Maritime Code, which has recently been amended or in accordance with the applicable provisions of Regulation 391/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council. In accordance with the Maritime Code for Ships and Yachts in national navigation and yachts, the length of the troops is less than 24 m in international navigation, and for Croatian floating stationary from the coastal facility, the jurisdiction was maintained by the HRB. This proposal will also prescribe amendments related to the appointment of members of the HRB Board as a model for other European and world societies. In this way, it will be possible to manage the work of this institution so that only representative representatives of HRB users and experts from areas directly related to the work of the same institution are involved in such a way that none of the stakeholders makes up the majority of the board. I believe that I personally believe that this way will not paralyze the work of the facility, but will, but will ensure its true independence and transparency, perhaps I am not as suspicious as my colleague Turina Đuric, so here I will, I will, I have decided that on behalf of the SDP Club we will give good faith that, that the administrative council will function, that the system will not be paralyzed and I want a lot of success in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182255	Thank you, and now we're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Sasa Djujic is up to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182256	Thank you, Vice President, so here's a very short one, I personally support this same proposal to amend this law although it seems to me that, if I had to share this suspicion, I'm not entirely optimistic as my colleague Babic, so I'm not sure that, that these interventions within the board of directors weren't done just so that, just so that, in order to be better than I think, they were done just to change the composition of the board of directors, which I wouldn't, my impression is such a secretary of state, I think, I may be wrong, I may not be wrong, being, which is your right right again, you might be more satisfied that, in this photo finer, that perhaps at some point in the beginning of the mandate or mid-term, you can never go straight into these changes, so that in the middle of the term you've changed it, and now in this photo fine, we'll say the practical few months that I're going to the same way in the same way, in the same way, in order to the other law that I're going to the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182257	The replica was requested by Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182258	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Djujic, it is very important who makes up the board of directors and who ran the company, especially when it comes to state-owned companies, and since they are representatives of the Ministry of Transport here, he would like to warn us of one fact because we in Slavonia have the same ports, the truth here is about Osijek Airport, where word of his resignation has emerged, that they have received 3 employees fired from Osijek Airport, women of reduced working capacity, births and workers, workers who are one and a union commissioner. Minister Butkovic has promised that tomorrow, next week, he will meet with the director of the airport, but also this, in this case, what you have warned very much, is very important who is, who has managed this with individual legal authorities, especially owned by the Republic of Croatia, because these things should not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182259	Thank you very much, Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182260	Thank you very much. A colleague, Žagar, well in all administrative councils, it is very important who sits in them and is the rightful owner, let's say, but the government is the owner, so it is the right of the owner to put in the administrative council who, the owner thinks the best of his interests, so I don't sometimes have any objections when in the board of directors sitting and, and, and, and people from politics, with respect and their expertise, and everything they should have for certain administrative councils, but it's always kind of a skeptic when at the end of a term, there are some changes that should be resolved in the first few months of some mandates, because when you come to some authority, it doesn't matter now whether we talk about ports or anything else, so when you go to the citizens and you plan to manage certain systems, you must have a complete picture and staff and those people who should then take over and the board board board, and everything else, and you don't find yourself at least two years in a term, and then you't want to a term.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182261	Thank you very much. Let's move on with individual debates, it's the last individual debate Mr. Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendments to the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships are primarily the result of amendments to the Maritime Code that we adopted last year, and simply since then this Law on the Croatian Register of Ships has been inconsistencies with the basic Maritime Code which regulates the entire maritime activity. When we talk about the Croatian Register of Ships, then we can boast as a state as a maritime state to inherit one registry of a qualification society that the International Maritime Organization in London in 1992 assessed on the basis of documentation that the Croatian Register of Ships is a successor to the Austrian Register of Ships founded in 1858 and that after the British Lloyd and Bureau Veritas of France, the third-old qualifying society in the world within the Member States of the International Maritime Organisation. That fact speaks of the state first of all that maritime state that we want to talk about for the Republic of Croatia. Rare are the maritime states in the world that have their own qualifications, not many. Rare are the countries in the world when we talk about seafaring that they can from project design to construction, to a qualifying society that defines the elements and determines the elements of the ship, which has its port of entry through port captainship in its area and which has its boater. These five basic features of a state that can be called a maritime state, a state that builds its own ships that classify them themselves, which enrolls them in its own port of enrolment, such as Croatia does not have many countries in the world. In this sense, in order to maintain this epithet and attribute of the maritime state, it is very important that the Croatian Register of Ships, which has experienced its full independence through the establishment of a sovereign and independent Republic. Until then, Croatian ships or better said Croatian shipmen were fairing the Yugoslav flag and aggression on the Republic of Croatia, a large part of those ships that were then under the Yugoslav flag crossed the flag of Malta and only later after a certain period of time and, among other things, by the adoption of this law, were ships of ships based in Croatia, could be returned to the cover of the Croatian flag. I would disagree with colleagues and colleagues who speak of a political approach to the amendments to this law. Since the establishment of the Croatian Register of Ships, he has always been a professional organisation, he has never been a political organisation, nor has he been humanised in political terms, and I have been very well aware of and followed for many years by the Croatian Register of Ships, he has never interfered in the politics of the Croatian Register of Ships and he will not and will not need it, although it is counterproductive that any political interference in the organization of the Croatian Register of Ships is counterproductive. It is precisely in this sense that any administrative council of this institution was formed, which was primarily composed of experts or people who came from a professional mile in the Ministry of the Sea or the Ministry responsible for maritime affairs and was attended by representatives of shipowners and attended by representatives of bodies, institutions, associations, organisations that in any way have to do with the certification of ships and their control, the embezzlement of airworthiness, etc., etc. And that's how it's supposed to stay. It must not be allowed, in any way, to enter into its politicisation in any way by such a professional organisation as the Croatian Register of Ships, in any way, because it is truly only performing professional activities and above all. The amendments to the law itself took place, as I said in the introduction, due to changes to the Maritime Code. In fact, as a Member State of the EU, we cannot in this market economy that we live in, which is why today we are as a democratic state relying on the market economy as well, able to make certain tasks for the certification of baptisation, to leave the ship elements exclusively in the jurisdiction of our own Croatian Register of Ships, although I would like to do so first. But like other states that have, as I said, Lloyd register English or Bureau Veritas French and French shipmen and English shipmen do not have to, and cannot, depend on their status, on their approach to use their own national register when certified and bagged their ships. Therefore, what we have decided to accept by joining the EU is, in part, clear and due to the need to amend the Maritime Code, and then the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships. And this should not reduce or weaken the position of the Croatian Register of Ships. In fact, I also argued when we changed the Maritime Code and when we passed the Maritime Code and when we passed the Maritime Code and when we harmonised it with the needs of Croatian shipping and Croatia as a maritime state to be competitive on the world shipping market. I never claimed competition was bad for Croatian shipping. In fact, only a strong competition for Croatian shipping can make it an even better Croatian shipbuilding and so can the Croatian Register of Ships. And I am convinced that this fact, which we have made possible that competition and in this activity will not weaken the position of the Croatian Register of Ships, while we have done what we can, and that ships that sail in national navigation and yachts that sail in national navigation will be left exclusively in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Register of Ships, and that ships that sail in international navigation will be left on the market with decisions, the need to think about those whose ships are owned by them. In doing so, we told the Law of the Sea that we would leave the boats, extract them from the Croatian Register of Ships and leave their certification and embezzlement to the competent ports of enrolment or to the competent port captains. In that sense, because of the need to define the council exactly this way, I don't think anything important will change in the composition of the Governing Council. Each administration shall, when taking responsibility for the management of the State, have the right, fully entitled to amend the composition of the Governing Council. Therefore, whether this is the administrative council appointed in 2016, 19. The new administration has the right to change. In this case, it will not happen because the same administration will decide after these elections on these same board members, so these same professional people who will now be in that same board and after the election of Mrs Turina Đurić and Mr Djujic, regardless of what they are there and after the election, will remain professional people there, and those who are and I am sure they will be appointed, but I am saying no one has ever disputed when they take responsibility for the management of the state. Therefore, we should not cry for something not to cry, but to support this law primarily in the interest of this same Croatian Register of Ships, which as a state, as a maritime state we can be proud to know that our Croatian Register of Ships is third in the world register of ships. It is not the third largest because our fleet is small, but in experience, according to the knowledge of the Croatian Register of Ships it is certainly at the top of European classification institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182263	Mr. Djujic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182264	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, first of all, I have to say in one great delusion, you thought it would remain the same president of the Republic, so you started to appoint ambassadors of this before the election process ended, so there was a change. And I'm also telling you that there won't be the same administration after the next parliamentary elections, and some other one of these will come, and it's not good. You're a man with experience, and you're not a very stupid man, so don't go wrong, you're obviously in some unrealistic state, so I believe you'll get out of it quickly. So that's one thing, another thing I said to myself, that I would support this law and support it and I think we can be proud of the Croatian Register of Ships. And that's where we agree. I also said that I believe that every administration or hair, if you've listened to me, has the right to place people he thinks will best protect their interests. But like you said, when he takes responsibility, not when he leaves power and leaves responsibility a few months before the election. Because when our administration comes and changes What you've put on now, then you'll complain that it's political retribution, and it's not. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's what you do at the beginning, not in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182265	Thank you. I'm the one who made the impression that you're all getting along. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Djujic, is happy to live in hope, they say that hope is the last to die, so you hope well, enjoy that hope until the election. After the election, that hope will go out and you will see what I just said, which is that we will not keep the same people, but will always be there in the Croatian Register of Ships, Mr. Djujic and his colleague, there is no place for politics there. I've been a competent person in the administration for seven years for this ship's register. No one from the policy area has ever entered.../incomprehensible/... that's always been at the level of department chiefs in the ministries if they've been recruited from the ministry. As a rule, it is a crucial role and it is good to have those who give work to the Croatian Register of Ships themselves, and these are Croatian shipmen and should do everything possible for them to see the profession in that institution, not politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182267	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the respected secretary of state at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Josip Bilaver, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182268	Thank you, Vice President. I thank you all for supporting this law. I also thank you for the questions you have referred and, in fact, for the doubts that I am about to try to argue with you right now. So I believe when there's a vote that we'll all be unanimous. The biggest regret in fact is the appointment of members of the board of directors. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not need to amend the law for this reason, it may change the members of the Governing Council at the next session. Therefore, that argument does not stand. The second to be applied to members of the Governing Council and to the composition of the Governing Council is the timing or time when this law is adopted. It was simply possible to pass earlier because, among other things, this law changed and because of a new Maritime Code that came into force only in February of last year, after which it joined the amendments to this law with all procedures he came to the agenda today. And thirdly, around the composition of the board of directors at this time we have defined that, among other government, the ministry, in the members of the board of directors, the Croatian Maritime Society and the Croatian Shipbuilding Society which do not exist at all, means that these two legal entities do not currently exist, and according to current law they propose members of the board of directors. The new article relating to the Administrative Council states that the administrative board has a president and 8 members, of those 8 members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia appoints 4 members of the Board of Directors on a proposal from the Minister of Maritime Affairs, and of those 3 members are members of the staff of the competent ministry responsible for the security of maritime navigation, is one member of the order of experts responsible for the security of navigation on inland waterways, among other things we also have an open office in Belgrade and one member of the Board of Directors, meaning the fourth member of the Board of Directors on the proposal of the Minister of Economy’s Offices Offices of Experts on Industrial Development in the field of shipbuilding. The other 3 members of the Governing Council name the following users of HRB services, which is HGK which appoints one member from the ranks of representatives of Croatian insurance and ship resecuritizers, because they are tight and related to HRB operations, and 2 members who give, which gives the shipowners' association registered in the Republic of Croatia and here we wanted this association to be representative, so we put a provision for members and associations to manage with at least 60% of the total gross tonage of all Croatian state-owned ships in international navigation, so that we, teaching what I have just said, wanted the members of the Governing Council to be truly representative, to have their legitimacy and to contribute to their experience and their activities further strengthening of HRB. Next up, Art. 5. says that persons acting as members of the HRB Board on the date of entry into force of this law continue to carry out that duty until the appointment or re-election of new members of the Governing Council. Here's what I'm hoping I've been able to give you these explanations of how you've had your doubts in your own, in my presentation. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal for this law will, I repeat, harmonize the provisions of the applicable law with the provisions of the Maritime Code, that it is, which has been updated at the beginning of this year, which has been fully arranged for the tasks of determining the capacity to sail and the constitutional certification, and the bazaar of maritime facilities. The most recent amendments to the Maritime Code of the Republic of Croatia are in order to comply with the provisions of Regulation 391/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009. on common rules and standards for organisations carrying out inspection and control of ships, enable the activities of the statute certification and bazaar of certain maritime facilities of the Croatian state in international navigation other than HRB to carry out other recognised organisations, while those operations for ships will be carried out by competent port captains. In addition to HRB, the Republic of Croatia also recognised Bureau Veritas and Lloyd's register as recognised organisations in line with the requirements and needs of the Croatian Shipowners' Association in the international navigation of Mare Nostrum. The proposal for a law will also regulate the powers of the HRB relating to the power of the statute certification and the bazaar of maritime facilities in view of the verification powers acquired in accordance with Regulation (EC) 2015/757 on the monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport, the reporting of them and their verification by Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006. 1257/2013 on ship recycling and the power to carry out a conformity assessment in accordance with Directive 2013/53 on recreational vessels and personal jet-powered vessels, Directive 2014/90 on maritime equipment, the Directive on the harmonisation of the legislation of the Member States concerning the making available on the market of pressure equipment and the Directive on the harmonisation of the legislation of the Member States as regards the making available on the market of simple pressure vessels, vessels, so on. I would also like to point out that the implementation of this law has no financial impact on the state budget and here, once again I thank everyone for the questions and for the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182269	Thank you very much, that concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182270	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 796, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, firstly, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships and Others, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 121 for and 6 abstentions, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182271	Now we move on to: - Proposed law on the compensation of employees of Plobest d.d., second reading, P.Z. No. 642. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, as well as by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182272	I would like to thank Vice President HS, the honourable MPs, the honourable MPs. Second reading Proposal for a Law on the compensation of workers of the company Plobest d.d. So in the area of RH asbestos began to be widely used after II. Holy shit. war, and primarily in the asbestos-cementary industry in the manufacture of brake materials, asbestos threads and in shipbuilding and construction. The problem of asbestos in the Republic of Croatia has been highlighted in 61 C.E. when the first cases of asbestos are described. Given the potential threat of asbestos disease in professional exposure, workers are less or more organised under periodic health control. Based on the dynamics of knowledge of the adverse impact of asbestos on health, a number of international organisations and institutions have proposed constant reductions in the permitted level of asbestos in the workplace until the ban on the use of asbestos in the manufacture and use of asbestos-containing products. The specificities of asbestos exposure are contained in the fact that the signs of disease as a consequence of the health of asbestos workers generally occur significantly later than 20 years after inhaling asbestos particles. Exposure to asbestos may result in numerous lung and pleuro diseases such as asbestos, pleura thickening, small airway disease, and other malignant diseases. At the 72nd session held on 4 June 86, the International Labour Organisation adopted the Convention on Safety in the Use of asbestos, which provides that national laws or regulations must lay down the measures to be taken to prevent and control workers from being exposed to health due to professional exposure to asbestos and that national laws or other regulations lay down the necessary measures, including appropriate sanctions to ensure effective application and compliance with the provisions of the Convention. The Republic of Croatia has agreed to amend legislation that regulates maximum concentration in 93 years by adopting a Regulation on maximum levels of harmful substances in the atmosphere of working rooms and spaces and biological limits. The EU countries accepted the 99th obligation to implement a series of measures to stop the use of asbestos. By signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU in 2002, the Republic of Croatia took the obligation to bring its legislation into line with EU legislation, including legislation relating to the production, transport and use of asbestos-containing products. As far as existing legislation is concerned, we can say that asbestos problems are regulated with several different regulations in the Republic of Croatia. In order to take care of workers who were professionally exposed to asbestos during work in the Republic of Croatia, a package of laws was adopted in early August 2007 and this is the Law on terms of obtaining the right to retirement due to the professional exposure of asbestos, then the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers of professional asbestos and the Law on the compensation of workers of professional asbestos. The law on conditions for obtaining the right to retirement allows workers to acquire the right to retirement under favourable conditions, more favourable conditions than so-called so-called age pension. General conditions laid down by the Pension Insurance Act. By supplementing the Law on the Conditions for Getting Old-age Pensions of Workers Professionally Exposured to asbestos from January 2010, the category of workers who have suffered from asbestos-induced diseases during their work and the disease has been established by a decision on the recognition of professional disease by the HZZO, it is also possible to exercise the right to an age pension under more favourable conditions, with an increase in pension by 26%. By law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, the Republic of Croatia has taken the obligation to pay for the compensation of workers suffering from asbestos. Following the adoption of the Law on the Compensation of Workers of the company Salonit d.d. in July 2011. in Vranjic’s bankruptcy, which was granted the right to compensation for 170 workers who were found in the Salonit working relationship in Vranjic’s bankruptcy on 14 February 2006, who lost their jobs because of the ban on asbestos. However, we must stress that there remains a problem with the seven former Salonite workers who have met the conditions, but who have not applied for compensation because they died in the meantime. In the very law on Plobest, the basic activity of Plobest d.d. and Plobest d.d. In bankruptcy, it was the production of asbestos products. In October 99, a bankruptcy procedure was opened against the company and it was completed in January 2005 and the company was finally deleted from the register. Since the abovementioned package of laws on the care of workers who were professionally exposed to asbestos during work in the Republic of Croatia, the issue of compensation which were long-term exposed to the adverse effects of asbestos on health has not been resolved, this proposal proposes to compensate 566 workers who were employed by Plobest d.d. in the period from 8 October to 21 October 2002. they achieve at least 5 years of professional asbestos exposure, and all according to the view that disease cannot occur unless the worker has been professionally exposed to asbestos for at least 5 years, and the position is accepted at the 3rd working meeting on exposure and asbestos and similar fibres held in Zagreb in 88 years. For the purposes of drawing up a final draft of the law, a check was carried out on the number of workers who were in a working relationship with Plobest d.d. during the reference period. By reason of the draft law in the first reading, a number of 510 workers who make compensation have been identified. A further verification of the data, the HZMO identified a number of workers who were entitled to compensation in relation to the reasons under the draft law in the first reading for 56 workers and a total of 566 of whom 55 insurance workers died. In accordance with the above, this Article shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 of the final proposal for a law implementing the same, the Environment and Energy Fund, has provided additional funding needed to compensate another 56 workers who exercise that right. As reference dates, they took Independence Day, October 8, and October 21, 2002 as the day before the establishment of Novi Plobest d.o.o. which isn't registered to work with asbestos. Workers of the company Plobest d.d. and Plobest d.d. In the event of a bankruptcy that is a condition, i.e. for their successors, it is proposed to pay the amount of compensation in a period of 3 years in such a way that by the end of 2020 the amount of 73,000 kuna is paid by the end of 2021, one more such amount and by the end of 2022 the amount of 73,000 kuna in the name of compensation for the multi-annual exposure of asbestos, i.e. the total amount of 219 thousand kuna per worker. The amount of compensation per worker shall be equal to the amount of compensation of the company’s employees, Salonit d.d. in Vranjic's bankruptcy, due to job losses to ban asbestos production. The obligation to provide compensation and payment obligations under this law shall be subject to the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund and the budget of the Republic of Croatia and shall not be burdened by this amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182273	Thank you very much. Here, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj is probably looking for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182274	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the MOST Club, I request a break on the proposal to finalise this proposal on the compensation of Plobest’s company’s employees. At first I say that I am sorry that it is not Minister Coric here, I can call him Minister of Law and Threatening the Republic of Croatia because this law is above all, a serious law, so that the time limit you put on me is absurdly discriminatory, harmful to the people who worked in Plobest, you have set a limit from October 8th to October 21st, 2002, 5 years. And what if a man worked 4 years since October 8th 91st and worked here, and before he worked 36 years in Plobest, so 40 years he worked at Plobest, he won't do it right. And we'll give the amendment. We will give the amendment to accept that there are no restrictions because it is injustice and discrimination, it is pure discrimination against people who have worked and who have suffered from asbestos, severe diseases. Of course, we expect that amendment to be accepted by most of us, but here's a chance for you to change it yourself now or for the government to make an amendment because it's a fair amendment. As for Salonita, yes, 172 workers received 219 thousand kuna, however, for all the promises made by Minister Coric during his time as minister, there were promises, meaning that before, he was the Minister of Labour and Pensions, he promised to resolve 50 unsolved workers in Salonita who had not been solved for various reasons, but that is why I will speak in an individual debate about what happened. It's an injustice. He didn't solve it. Minister Coric, resolve this discrimination against workers and Plobest and Salonita, that's who you are. People promised. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182275	Of course I'll take a break and see you again at 2:00 and 33 minutes. It's a meeting at 14.23 p.m. Here we go with the replica of the respected secretary of state. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.30 A.M.]] Even before he started speaking, some of them picked up their replicas, so we go in that order, the first respected representative is Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So if this topic were in the second reading, the topic is serious because I would ask, that's why it got up before the replica, we see that in this legislative proposal in the first reading we asked that there is no time limit for all workers who worked, that there is no time limit since '91. That date by 2002, rather than that of those workers who had worked before, there is the possibility that people worked 40 years, and that they would come true, from this date since '91. which was listed, that they only worked 4 years 364 days. And people worked, and I think, and I'm going to give the amendment, i.e. The amendment has already been submitted to remove this time limit. I think it would be fair and he's discriminatory with this law if he stays with those people who have also been contaminated, exposed or affected by asbestos. So you'd ask the secretary why the time limit is lifted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182278	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182279	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj. So I think this is going to be a basic question in all the replicas, why we chose October 8, '91 as a reference date. A year. Therefore, it was not easy to set a reference date. And each reference date in itself already raises the question why not some other date. I'll remind you. "Azbest" Panel was founded in '55. the year as the first company to start producing..., dealing with asbestos production, they did business until the 1990s when it went out and the company “Plobest” was established and was registered in the 1st month of the 1990s. The first company "Azbest" Ploche has had we cannot get the right information as many people, several thousand people have worked from the former state space. So if we put that story in a way that even the legal ancestors have the right to do so now, the question is whether we will thus achieve the right purpose of what this law wanted to achieve for the people of Asbest as they were in Salonita.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182280	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182281	Dear Secretary of State. My question is the same as my predecessor. How, then, does 8. 10? You are now in this opening speech of yours when you explained this bill to us, I will now quote you in two sentences "the asbestos has begun to be used in Croatia after II. World War II" and then you explained where it was used. Then you said the same thing in '61. the first harmfulness of asbestos is observed," so in the Republic of Croatia, and here you put the limit 8.10.'91. Why didn't you, in accordance with the new holiday law, at least now change to 30.5.In the '90s? What do I mean? What's your reference point? It has no foothold in anything. Instead of correcting one great injustice, you will create dozens of new injustices and it is not good and I do not know how you will explain it. Here's what's inexplicable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182282	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182283	Thank you. Your Honor. So, are we going to correct the wrong or not, I can't answer that right now. I just want to say that unlike the compensation of the "Salonite" workers who had no right to claim in any order of inheritance or inheritance, we, in Article 2 of this law, gave the possibility that the heirs of these dead who I said were 50 and something, so their successors in the succession process could exercise the right to consume benefits under this law. So we tried to correct certain injustices because I repeat, before us this kind of damage, this kind of damage as a model has already been made in the Salonite case and it would have been an injustice if we had done so in the Salonita case, and in the case of Plobest workers, if we hadn't taken care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182284	The next is a replica of the respected representative of Vlaha Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182285	Dear Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, I would first like to commend this initiative at all to depriving people in this way because the asbestos exposure we know what he did and I think it's the right to compensation. I suggest we still go to third reading, and I have 55 names that are not included in this list, and this is about that sum of people who would possibly supplement this existing number. So I suggest you take the time, think about it, and that this injustice that's linked to the time limit, we don't even have to call it injustice, but if it's related to the time limit, if it's about that number of people, I think it would be objective and realistic and fair to include those people that aren't covered by this list, here. So I'm asking you to think that way and get those 55 people involved. Or that time limit should be shifted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182286	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182287	That they have no conditions under this law, so they're probably missing the length of exposure of five years. Because we got HZMO's data on Plobest workers, the companies we want to damage, now whether they're on that list I can't say right now, but if you have that list let us see it. We think we, we even went through the number from the first reading when we got the exact information. What we got from HZMO as the last piece of information is the number we went with here in the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182288	The next replica is the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182289	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, do you know that your proposal for a law is in conflict with the Law on Responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for damage to the former SFRY for which the former SFRY was responsible? Article 2 of the Law is against the law and you have made us a proposal that is completely in line with this law. By excluding workers who worked before '91. the years of compensation are definitely in collegiate with this law and it will fall to you in the Constitutional Court if most of you vote this law and we will file an immediate constitutional action for the assessment of legality because you are in conflict with this law. This law makes it very clear that what was in the SFRY and the workers who worked in these companies should be compensated because Croatia is the legal successor of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182290	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182291	Your Honor, counsel, so when we went into the motion to pass this law, you know it as well as we did all the controls within the state bodies, opinions, all the stages of testing legality and compliance with the Constitution. Therefore, if we get all the positive opinions of the body we have no reason to doubt that this law, that this law, would be unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182292	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182293	The Honorable Vice President, the esteemed secretary of this law, as well as many laws, has set certain time limits but in any case it contains a social note and empathy to those who have suffered, damaged, suffer. Since 2005, we have been banned from the use of asbestos, so both in the products and asbestos by an enesthesia and drinking water is not damaged by health but by the inhaling of particles. Do you have any information on how many buildings in our country still contain asbestos globally throughout Croatia because we know that when the 11th September twins in New York were ordered, they contained an average of 550,000 tons of asbestos? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182294	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182295	I thank you, Your Honor. So, Doctor, I can give you, I can enable you, we can agree to be your question so that the Environmental Protection Fund gives you exact data because they have data on the quantity, about the number of households that still have roofs with asbestos plates. I have this information here, but you should look it up now, and I think that would cause another kind of debate. I'll ask them to send you on your, to your club this exact information.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182296	And the last replica of the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182297	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here's what you said yourself. The most important thing is the replicas related to it from when to when and how many years. I'm curious if there was an interruption in the employment relationship at Plobest in the period between 8.10.1991. and 21.10.2002, so unless the person was in continuum and he is more than 5 years old cumulatively, is he included according to the HZMO list in the group of damaged workers?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182298	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182299	Your Honor, I can't say now whether she's on the pension register, but what I'm saying here is that the whole procedure of the administrative procedure for the exercise of that right or the realisation of this law will be run by the environmental protection fund's professional services. So, within 90 days, they will have to submit a request, submit.../incomprehensible/... documentation where the case will then be analysed and where it will be seen whether anyone, outside the deadline, has, has worked on direct-impact transactions, with a minor impact, etc. Therefore, that technical part will be regulated among other things after the adoption of this law and the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182300	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182301	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Secretary with his associates. We have before us a second reading of a very important law, significant from the social aspect, human aspect, human aspect, people who worked in Plobest, sick of asbestos, of course we need to talk about it, and this is one commendable law and it should be respected and appreciated. However, as colleagues said from SDP and colleagues Mrsic and colleagues Orepic, so we all said almost uniquely that another very important part can be done, these are people who have worked for more than 5 years because it turns out the possibility that by this date that we are now talking about means that, which was given as a reference, that there were people who worked before, must have been working 35 years, and that during this period that they worked for 4 years and 364 days, and they will not exercise the right regardless of what they spent their entire working life in Plobest. For this reason, once again that Club Mosta has proposed the amendment, it has already been proposed, will come to your benches, i.e. I think this means the deadline, October 8, 91 to October 21, 2000, is simply that limitation to be deleted. I think it would be good to think or through what fellow Orepic suggested through this section to postpone to third reading, to see who more are these people if not everything has been brought together, or to accept this amendment as well. that there is no time limit and there will be no problem with us, if you agree that we will withdraw this amendment, and that the government accepts it because this is really a social problem, one obligation for the Croatian state to deprive its citizens, but we need to be reasonable here that those people who do not belong here, and they have been sick, they have worked with asbestos, that we simply do not send them, we do not create injustice. Because there are no other words than we have made to people an injustice, but absolutely positive is this bill, so I would hope that you will consider, here, during the debate, that you will get in touch with the minister and that you will find a model and a way to deprive these people mentioned by fellow Orepic, number 50 people, so that the third reading is no loss because we are unanimous, all of them almost manifested themselves here in the assembly, more HDZ to simply get in touch with their Minister Coric and that this, this injustice which is a certain number of people to erase. Here, we proposed an amendment and for the last time in the first meaning of reading we also, we talked to the workers, we made remarks that the workers, you didn't accept them. I understand that I have, there must be some kind of reference, but it's not about a large number of people, I think, that one man, it's a big one, but for the state, absolutely that injustice is nothing to be solved and these 50 people have worked in Plebest Plates. Of course, when we speak, since we have here this and the Salonite in Vranjica and each other have the same legal basis, simply that injustice should be corrected, and I would also read here the letter sent by the Bigle asbestos Association and their representative because we have to think, this law in 2011, which was passed on to the workers of the Salonite in Vranjica and here we have a similar problem in this law, I think it would be good to refer to the amendments and that law or to make this law together as soon as possible, of course, it is waiting for the time to be resolved, because here I can also read the letter which he sent to the club in front of the association, as I have said about, here, I will also quote it during the time, while Tomislav Čorić was the Minister of Labour and Pension System, three times were held meetings with State Secretary Katar Ivanković Knez of the Ministry of the Ministry of State, where the talks were intended to be the refunding of the 50 workers. The damage is 200, 172 workers, 219 thousand kuna. During the time Tomislav Čorić took over the Ministry of Protection and the Environment with him personally, he personally held 2 meetings in Trogir and Split, the only topics again were the compensation of 50 Salonit workers, i.e. The solution was agreed and the final resolution deadline was to be submitted by Coric on his own proposal by 15.6.9. Instead of a proposal for a solution that we had in principle a deal with Coric, apparently that he deliberately cheated on us, he used us to collect information because we saw that he was not ruling matter. We respect and look forward to getting rid of, solved by Plobest workers although they are criteria, should be harmonised and complex are very strange, mildly said, to these 50 people as well as 50 others are unfair and unfair to long-term workers. In all the legal proposals for the proposed law, lex Plobest workers of Salonita fell out of all resolution options. In the second reading of the law in the Assembly, please ask for an answer, if you can listen, so this is a delivered association that takes care of those who are not compensated because the workers, the answer, what is with the "Salonita" workers and why they are skipped out on resolution. It is clear to us that the party to which Ćoric belongs by solving the "Plobest" attempts to solve the problem, and they send it a message of respect, and Solin and Kaštela, where most of the "Salonite workers" workers come from, but there are them from behind, believe that they are not as important to him as the people who will vote for him. So this is what he sent in front of the "Bagles of Asbesto" Association from Vranjica. I believe that this injustice for these, regardless of what this means, has been sent by the association, is disappointed with Minister Cocoric for not answering them, which has not fulfilled his promise and those questions, which means, with those 50, similar to that of "Plobest" with these 50 which are not solved because of these restrictions or I don't know why not. I think that the tribal would go into these changes and damage both those 50 workers or as many as the number, the triba check maybe there are more, this was sent by a representative of the association, to get rid of those people who got sick. Well, according to God, according to man, justice, I think it's just right to get rid of those 50 people. So the state won't fail for those 50 people, but let's not create injustice for one man to any man, and especially for those people who have suffered not by their own fault. They're people who created extra value, but here's asbestos produced what it produced. Of course, we propose this law, it will turn out that we force it, but I expect the government to see it, that Minister Coric will see who was supposed to be here, who has already listened to these people and when they met when he was Minister down in Kašteli and Split, as they say they had two meetings, if he promised them to keep it to people. I'm sorry the minister isn't here right now, but here I'd like to get rid of the "Plobesta" problem in this way or to accept this amendment that we've sent or that you, we'll withdraw it if you accept it so that it won't be something that we're politicizing here now, and of course it would be good to settle it in the meantime so there won't be injustice against Vranjica workers, i.e. from the pool of Split's Solin and Kaštel. But here, I'd like to ask one more question that we'd like to think about. Someone lives in Vranjica and around there, smoking barrels of strong, wind, asking how many people have suffered from asbestos that lived in the area? Do you have that information? It's not even those people's fault if they lived near the factory, if they lived, so to see how big they are in perspective, I'm interested in how many asbestos patients there are. Is there any record of how many people got sick? But probably in that pool where the factory was also “Plobesta” mainly in this pool in Split, where Vranjic, Solin, where Split is right nearby, it is suburban, how many people are sick and these people would also be tribal to take care of. And once again, I respect this suggestion of yours, I'm sorry you didn't accept it from your first reading. I've seen the agreement of most of the MPs here to solve and this problem that didn't go down because of the time limit, or which is why not all of this and the current law we're discussing here, but I'm expecting and I'm looking for, and I probably think that's how Parliamentarians think that this kind of injustice is corrected against "Salonita". Is if the minister only thinks that "Plobest" because he's from Ploče, he shouldn't think about it that way, but about Solin differently. So I accept this as regards "Plobest", to remove the time limit, to get rid of these 50 people in a way that you go into third reading so that you can check all that data as soon as possible to come or accept this amendment without restrictions and that we have solved this problem or that you make a proposal not to be our amendment. Therefore, you are open to all options, I expect here is a colleague of HDZ Club President Bačić he can call Minister Ćorić, you can step in with Minister Ćorić, agree, there is time, here we will still debate and make it fair, fair and fair and treat all those people who are victims of asbestos and who have worked to solve this problem at the most honest, fairest, most social with social sensitivity, and the intention of this law is essentially socially sensitive. So, I don't see any reason, here's counterpart Bacic behind me not to support this, and he's near those areas, and he knows what injustice means to anyone. In this case, it's 50 people in the Plots and that pool and it's 50 people in Vranjic in Solin and the Castelan-Plittian swimming pool, according to the information I have from these associations, but it would all be expensive to accept. So here are the answers, and I expect that this debate will come to the most honest and fairest solution for “Plobest” workers and, of course, if we can see in the perspective that we can solve fair and workers of “Salonita” Vranjic who are not compensated are also the number of 50 former workers. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182302	The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. This is the second reading of the Law on the Compensation of Workers of the Trade Society “Plobest”. We made it very detailed during the first reading the Club of Representatives of the HDZ in which we supported and said that it was commendable for any praise to enable this law to compensate 566 in that first draft of the law, and during the first reading there were 510 workers due to the multi-annual exposure of asbestos, which were in the period from 8 October 1991. until 21 October 2002 were employed by Plobest and Plobest d.d. in bankruptcy due to years of asbestos exposure. The basic activity of Plobest was the production of asbestos products and the problem of asbestos was regulated by several different specific regulations. In order to take care of workers who were professionally exposed to asbestos during work in the Republic of Croatia in early August 2007. A package of laws has been passed, the Law on the Conditions for the acquisition of the right to the retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, and the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos and the Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. In these laws, these laws addressed issues for the exercise of age pension rights under more favourable conditions, it seems to me that about 26% was then increased in pensions for workers who were professionally exposed to asbestos, health supervision and diagnostics, and the right to compensation for workers suffering from occupational illness due to asbestos exposure. By supplementing the Law on conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, which was adopted in January 2010. the category of workers who have suffered from asbestos disease during their work, and the disease has been identified by a solution to the recognition of a professional HZZO disease, it is also possible to exercise the right to an age pension under more favourable conditions, thereby increasing pension. Since the above-mentioned Law on the care of workers who were professionally exposed to asbestos during work in the Republic of Croatia, the issue of compensation for workers who had been exposed to harmful activity in the long term has not been resolved, it is precisely this law that applies to Plobest and Plobesta workers. in bankruptcy. As the start of the reference period, I have already said, the date of the declaration of independence has been established, and now, according to the new proposal of the law, the day of HS 8 October is concluded with 21 October when, when a new, new society is established, the new Plobest d.o.o. which is not registered, it's important to say for working with asbestos. What this law solves is that it will be paid to the employees of Plobest d.d. company. and Plobest d.d. in the bankruptcy amount of EUR 219.000,00 over the 3rd year, EUR 73.000,00 on condition that they have spent 5.g. during that reference period. in these companies concerned, therefore in Plobest and Plobest d.d. in bankruptcy. The obligation to provide funds such as this, the short law of all a few articles speaks, will provide the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and will pay workers such annual amounts. What I would now add, so first of all, the issue of the constitutionality of this law, which was spoken of by my colleague Mrsic, was similar when we passed the Law on Professional Training of Workers when it was defined that this law would apply to persons under the age of 30. and at that time, the question was similarly asked why, as the assessment suggests, from the assessment of the legality or constitutionality of that law, because to discriminate against those who are 31, then the law would, because it does not include those who are 31.g. or 30 g. And one day, that should then be suspicious with the assessment of the basis of the constitution, which is not the case, I think even the Constitutional Court ruled, I'm not sure. The question may also be asked, then, is the constitutionality assessment of the Law, for example, housing, subsidisation of housing loans, where we have defined that the limit of life, life, is 45 years old. In this law, it is considered that young people to whom the law will apply, persons in the Republic of Croatia who do not have a settled housing issue, have no real estate in their possession, and younger than 45, can be asked, and the question can be asked, then, is it not contrary to why this would not apply to a 45-year-old person. And two days, same here, so this isn't constitutional law. When the Republic of Croatia decides to deprive a certain number of workers, it is a new right to be given, it is not for anyone to be deprived of an existing right, it is for the new law which this country considers to be the property to be paid and that this is the exclusive decision of this representative home, so HS that this new law will be compensated by workers Plobest and Plobest d.d. in bankruptcy to refer only to those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were employed in these companies after the day of the declaration of independence of the Republic of Croatia, and until the moment there was a company that was involved in the production of asbestos and asbestos products and it is quite clear. Now, the issues of justice, whether it is good or not, it is decided by HS, it cannot be subject to the assessment of constitutionality that is the position, the political position of this home, the Croatian Parliament to refuse or not to accept such a position, but it is not constitutional, that was what was important to say, as it was not even against the constitution to limit SOR, professional training of workers only for those younger than 30, and not those younger than 31 or 37. Life, so it's the same here, the exact same case. This is therefore a political decision whether and to the extent to which the employees of the Plobest company who were directly exposed to the influence, the harmful influence of asbestos will be caught and included, so I believe that this is good. As for the withdrawal of the parallel, I agree that the government will consider the part in which it refers to employees of the former Vranjic Salonite. If there is another worker there who has been exposed to asbestos, if there is a group of workers who have not been compensated and thus violated their right, and can in terms of basic law underline themselves under those that should be depreciated, I am for the ministry to consider and to have a certain number of workers from Salonita d.d. From Vranjic, to think about it. It's absolutely, but it's not connected directly to this law. There are laws adopted by HS after the production of asbestos in the Republic of Croatia and asbestos products is prohibited in 2006 and this should be dealt with by those laws and should not be linked to the Law on the compensation of Plobest workers. That's why we at the HDZ Club hold that this is a good law, that it is social, that it understands the problems of people who have been exposed, directly exposed to asbestos and that these people are debauched and that, which is very important after the adoption of this law, yes, the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency as soon as possible enters into the realisation of this law itself, in order to really get this law passed as soon as possible. It is good that between the two readings the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the resolution ministry found that the number of 510 workers who worked in Plebest and Plobest d.d. in bankruptcy for more than 5 years in the reference period, it was actually not true and that the remaining 56 requirements or 56 people now covered by this law, it is good, it is fair and it is good that, if there is still, if there are more people who now satisfy these conditions, and beyond this coverage of 566 workers, it would be good to include themselves. Here, in that sense, we support this law at the HDZ Representatives Club and has our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182304	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182305	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Honorable Secretary of State with Associates. We have in the second reading the Law on the compensation of workers of the company Plobest d.d. In the first reading when we had this law then we opened two topics and the two topics was debated, the debate was the beginning of the application of this law, so, October 8, 91, and it was the subject of exposure to asbestos for 5 years. You, in your explanation for the second reading, left the same option. What we appreciate, we always appreciate the effort to try to solve the problem. I am absolutely sure that no one here has a magic wand and that a magic wand can find the best possible solution. You decided on October 8, 1991. We had some discussion about that date, even if you had moved it since we were changing some dates, but here you are. The theme is these five years of asbestos exposure. The theme is because what is your reference, you are referenced from 1988 when there was a working meeting on the problem that causes asbestos and similar fibers and where analyses showed that those who have been exposed for 5 and more years could actually have some threats and may have some problems. Is that so, I asked the secretary of state who was on the board, I asked if you had any reference new knowledge, if you have any new information that you can refer to, because it seems to me that from 1988 it's too old and I'm sure there may be some European and global analysis that shows this problem. So I know sometimes you know, when you're looking at some programs, then everyone gets targeted or has a certain interest. I'm particularly interested in late nights, all those programs that deal with interior planning, so those who break something down, build and whatever else, they fit my profession, and then they have an American program where they buy old houses and edit new ones. And then when workers or construction heads get there and find out that anything is asbestos, then they stop the works, they're called inspectors, no one can go to the construction site anymore, and no one can be that little more when the holes and builds a new asbestos. So, of course, that story with asbestos, especially with us is a story that I'm sure there's a lot of, so that asbestos exposure, those five years, that's what we do at the GLAS Club is controversial. It's been a dispute for us for five years, the answer, I know that, you know, you take Dr. Rukavin, so Dr. The sleeve directly from the sleeve says 2 years, 3 years, 5 years are about the same argument. We'd like to know exactly what the arguments are in five years. We'd like to know if there really are some things that, because what we have is a little bit, and when we talked about those five years, it's really controversial. So, the idea of getting rid of the welcome. But there was a chance between the first and second readings perhaps to strengthen your arguments by 5 years or maybe to decide on something and another time period. Since I have a feeling that we often go with the laws in two readings to show this one democracy, so here we are not laws in the first reading, but in two readings, it's good to go, but in this law there's no difference between the first and second readings, there are no arguments with which you have supported your decision a little more strongly that it's 5 years, so we at the GLAS Club will be bound by this law that we continue to say that the good law is abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182306	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Miranda Mrsic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182307	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing the Law on the Compensation of Workers of Plobest, although a better title for this law would be the compensation of the state to the workers of Chernobyl at the mouth of Neretva. The factories that brought death and suffering instead of prosperity to the workers because those who worked the longest, the worst passed, the rarest people welcomed a pension, most of them died of cancer, and they're gone. And it's absolutely certain that the state needs to damage workers and that's something that this country's debt to them, but again in this law we're doing discrimination and doing things that we shouldn't have done. I will quote the words of Smiljan Batinovic Black of the asbestos victims Association that brings together former Plobest workers from Plobest. Here, the other day Mara Karamatic Sabanje died, she's 165 of your asbestos and asbestos victims. Lung cancer and 2-3 months in hospitals, chemotherapy and death. No help, no salvation, no death, and that's it. And I don't understand why there's a good law now, a law that will give these workers something because health cannot be bought, only limits to those who worked in Plobest in 1991. Because Mara, as well as many of her colleagues from the panel Plobesto plant that produced asbestos products, did not welcome compensation from the Republic of Croatia for impaired health. The state has prepared some 111 million kunas for compensation, 510 of them, we have now heard of another number, we have all the time and said that the question at all is how this number was calculated and that the unclear criteria that the government has applied to determine the number of people who are going to receive the compensation. Yes, it is true that the government thus wants to resolve the issue of workers of the company and the fact is that they need to be compensated, but it is completely unclear why it is the period since 8 October 1991, it is clear why it is 21 October 2002. The Minister of Protection and the Environment otherwise born Plocanin Tomislav Ćorić informed us in his first reading that the proposed law will allow the payment of compensation to workers of 219,000 per worker who spent 5 years working. What about those who spent four years working 26 years ago? Or someone who worked 37 years in Plobest and then worked for another 3 years, so when did Croatia become an independent, sovereign state? Well, he won't be right. And someone who got a job in '90, '91. in Plobest and he was only five years old and then he left, and he'll be. This proposal has caused an avalanche of dissatisfaction and bitterness among numerous former asbestosists and members of their families. Indignation can't even hide children whose parents have been working on dangerous jobs for two decades since the beginning of the '70s. Until the beginning of '90. a year ago, but as it suggests the bill apparently at the wrong time. I think all workers needed equal damage, because this is how it turns out to be the mother, that the state is one mother, and the other is the stepmother. This is a pure injustice against the Azbest workers who spent their working life in the company from which Plobest was later created, because they depended on the degree of disease and those who managed to experience it received 30 to 90,000 kuna. So we're doing another injustice. What I said and in the replica, I'll do it again. This bill is in conflict with the law that this assembly passed in 2003, which is the law on liability of the Republic of Croatia for damage caused by the former SFRY for which the former SFRY was responsible. I will only quote Article 1 to make it very clear that this bill is in collegiate with this law and that it is illegal. Article 1(1) As one of the legal sequences of the former SFRY, the Republic of Croatia is responsible for those damages in the former SFRY, which, according to the rules in force at that time, was in line with the former SFRY, if the prudent and fair judgment of all circumstances of a specific case, in particular of citizenship, residence, permanent residence or seat of the damages and pests, places of harmful action and adverse consequences, methods of causing damage and other circumstances measured in their entirety, can conclude that the Republic of Croatia of all other countries, legal entities, former SFRY, in the closest link to concrete damage. So where exactly were you going to, so Plobest was in the Republic of Croatia, they were Croatian citizens, they were working on Croatian territory, and you're going to make a bigger confirmation that this law was supposed to damage all Plobesto workers no matter when they worked, whether they were in the former SFRY or in the Republic of Croatia, whether they worked before '91. Or after '91. Art. 1. The Law on Responsibilities of the Republic of Croatia for damages incurred in the former SFRY in St. 2. I quote that there is the closest link in Article 1 of this article if the damage was a citizen of the former Socialist Republic or a legal person with registered head office on its territory, and the damage was done on the state territory of the Republic of Croatia, and gentlemen di was Plobest, he was a di, in Italy, in Albania, and he was in the Republic of Croatia and before '91. and after '91, so I plead to the ruling majority to adopt the amendment and remove that part in the article. 1. which has been saying since when the time for obtaining the conditions for compensation is calculated because it is quite clear that they are not nationals of other countries, that they are citizens of the Republic, that Plobest was on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and that if the law is adopted in such a form as it is now, that we will give a constitutional suit and I am sure that the Constitutional Court will put this, this article which is in the Law on the compensation of the workers of the Plobest company because former workers fear for their future, do not know what brings them day or night, literally every day they look death in the eyes and wonder who is next. This law will be of little comfort to them because they can't make up for their health and I'll quote one, two sentences of one of the asbestos patients, we don't need anything, they'll give us enough to get back health, and the lost health won't be able to make up for it, and neither can the state that seems to be well sprayed and giving money to the workers because they were exposed to the harmful actions of asbestos because it stands in the bill, but that bill puts part of the worker beyond its reach and certainly people are justifiably unsatisfactory because some things are wrongly set up by this law, clearly that the government's intention to deprive the workers, but it shouldn't limit the period to which this applies, but the law should apply to all the former employees, on this trail of the HSS and Democrats's proposal for the amendment, I hope that the majority of the assembly would accept because it was something that was morally, which was responsible to the P. If it stays as it is, we have a situation, as I have already said, that someone is missing a few months, someone for a few weeks, and someone for a few days to get financial compensation, you can imagine how these people feel, they're disappointed that when they adopt a bill by the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection did not consult with the members of the associations, but they did everything, I say, in my own hands, especially because the Minister was born a Plochant and that is something that he obviously could know that the people in Plobest were doing before '91. And after '91. So what now? As far as I know the ruling, they will vote the law, we will give an amendment that will rule against, we will head to the Constitutional Court, but it is certain that Minister Coric will because of this law and because of discrimination against workers will surely have a hard time drinking coffee on the waterfront in Ploca. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182308	The next Club of Representatives of the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sasa Djujic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182309	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, we are above all pleased that this law is coming to us because it solves one long-standing injustice and trauma experienced by former employees of these companies and their families, and as we said in the first reading, the main observation on this date framework is that all predecessors before me and this remark was also the main one in the first reading of the law, and therefore I do not understand why you in the government refuse to accept it, because there is not one single too many reasons why you can defend it and you could expect this debate, so today it will be like this again, in fact, there will be a reflection on that debate from the first reading. I welcome this which you have accepted certain remarks, so you have extended to a part of this people even more, for this 50th time with these minor changes but in essence you did not accept the comment until the second reading. And now I'm not going to explain to you as well as my predecessors what they said because it doesn't make sense that I'm talking right now, someone who's been working for four years and 11 months and one day won't have a right, and someone else who's worked this long or someone who's worked 29 years won't make sense because of that date. So if you had removed this line from 8.10.1991, all these discussions would have been unnecessary and you would not have been in this law to correct a huge injustice by making new injustices to many people. That's one thing. The second thing, we talked a lot in the first reading today and we'll talk later through these individual discussions why the 8th 10th Day of the Croatian Parliament? Here's what I'm asking you. What does Croatian Parliament Day have to do with how much has someone been exposed to asbestos? For you have changed the law of holidays and holidays since the first reading. Why isn't the 30th of May 1990 Croatian Statehood Day reference point? Because it's just dates that do barriers and do new wrongs and it's unnecessary and you should have changed that. There's no opposition club that hasn't given the amendment to move that barrier. And I'm going to invite you from here as well, let the Government make the amendment, you suggest it and move when you're not between the two readings because I know you're going to refuse the opposition amendments because if you wanted to accept it then you'd accept it immediately between these two readings, it doesn't make any sense. You are State Secretary, here I will repeat who and in the replica in their opening statement told us, "The use of asbestos in the area of the Republic of Croatia began immediately after II. The World War," that's what you said here, that's your quote. Then you said in Croatia in the Republic of Croatia the first problems and the harmfulness of asbestos were observed in '61. years, and then you put in some kind of date-share line of 8.10.91. A year. Why 8.10.91. the year when the damage was observed in '61. years in the Republic of Croatia like you said? Well, we can play dumb around here, say it like that, so say it, here we go, we can't go before. So Croatia is a follower of everything that was before and good and bad, we are constantly discussing it in this House of the High. And now it works, I don't know whose stubbornness, maybe here we're talking all the time that there's going to be some 50 people left out there, and that's a huge damage, and you're not going to take that date away, and that's the only problem in this law. So this law would be unanimously unisonally supported if it wasn't for that. I don't know, I'll think about it, I think I'll support him like that because he's still dealing with some big problems, but he'll create new injustices and it's not good, it's not good. And if one man was damaged because of this, it's a lot, it's a lot. And once again I appeal to you on behalf of the SDP Club, give it up, because none of us, I will repeat once again, too much reason to stick to that date, there is no stand in anything. We got here in Parliament 10, 15 days ago calendars for New Year's, these constituency calendars and then we got inside stickers, stickers with new dates. You have a little sticker on May 30th, so we need to stick to those changes. Take one sticker and make this date beautiful, remove it, take one white, beautiful and change it because it doesn't lead to anything, you'll only create new injustices with one law that should be good, and this way will be discriminatory and bad. Here's another appeal to you State Secretary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182310	Thank you. We move to an individual debate, and again, counterpart Sasa Djujic will speak first in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I applied for an individual debate right after the debate on behalf of the club, one of those reasons is that I look forward to your comment when you say after Sasa Djujic will speak, it always makes me so happy, so that's one of the reasons why I applied. And one of the other reasons is that today when we talk about this topic, I'm going to reopen again for the tenth time in this House of Commons one that connects to asbestos, but it has nothing to do with this law. Therefore, in the light of this law, the State Secretary said that asbestos in the Republic of Croatia is applied immediately after the period after II. World War II was widespread in the territory of our country, including construction. In the Croatian coast where I come from, there are still a large number of houses that have covered roofs with asbestos crumbs, in the Gorski Kotar, the entire sides of the walls are protected by asbestos panels because it was a good insulator and all that expensive as it is. However, when we talk about environmental protection, and I want to talk about it, the state, through the Environmental Protection Fund, co-financed the disposal of hazardous waste by 2016, transferred this means that any citizen at home who would replace the roof or would have asbestos panels at the warehouse or would have asbestos as a dangerous construction waste could, with the co-financing of the funds, put that waste away at landfills or in general, all the utility companies. In 2016, the fund wrote a notice on its website, due to a lack of financial resources, the co-financing of the disposal of this waste is suspended and can now be postponed to 17 deposits in the Republic of Croatia that have a contract with the Fund, which have special tapes through utility companies. But look, it's impractical and it doesn't work. So for four years, the state has not co-financed the management of dangerous asbestos waste. Let's say for example. in my county in the Primorje-Gorski County we can only deposit this waste in Delnice and nowhere else in any city in our county can we do it but in the town of Delnice. Now I ask you, will a person not from Rijeka, not from Novi Vinodolski, but from Losinj, Rab or Lopar will deposit it in Delnice or throw it in some first bush they run into? We had a huge ecological disaster a few months ago when the carabit was wildly delayed in the area of the town of Bakra, the diaries wrote about it. It cost, in the realm of the Kingdom, the city of the Queen, the restoration of about half a million kuna, not to mention the damage that ecologically harms all of us and our inhabitants. Why? Because the state doesn't want to finance it for four years. It's impossible that there's no money because it's not as much cost as the damage that this whole thing has to do with. We boast of increasing revenue from the state budget, boasting of surpluses, tax discharges, and we do not have the resources that we had in the crisis and in the difficult times to handle, to take care of hazardous waste. Yesterday, Prime Minister Plenkovic told us here about the support of EU Green Europe projects, and we do not finance asbestos management in Croatia. This is terrible, not only that, but the state should also co-finance citizens who do not have the financial means to replace those roofs, to replace those panels, to completely throw it out of use. We have people who can't pay for it, and we have areas that are still covered with asbestos plates, asbestos chips, etc. And this isn't the first time I've talked about this in this high house. That's at least three, four times as much as I remember. And here, I appeal to you State Secretary, pay attention to this problem, think about the fund starting again to co-finance the disposal of hazardous waste, to keep it in the dump, not in our nature. Here, that's why I wanted to do it in this individual debate, I know it's not about this law, but I think it's a very important topic, and this is my chance to talk about it five times in this term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182312	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, this is a unique example when we have been trying to correct and damage people and their families because of an objective problem that they have not affected themselves, and they have not been aware of, nor have we as a society been more aware for decades that the impact of asbestos on people's health is devastating and that in some way it can cause serious illnesses and with fatal consequences and we are trying to compensate people partially, although it is impossible to fully, but at least reduce their consequences or their families that have lost their loved ones. And then we do in that good intention another injustice that will be felt by those who will not exercise the right to compensation, and in the same position as those who will and their families and who have had problems or who have lost someone because of the harmful influence of asbestos. It is unclear why the applicant refuses to allow all those exposed to the influence of asbestos in the factory during the decade of its work to be compensated. So this argument that this applies only to a period of new meaning from the beginning and independence of the Republic of Croatia is not, in my opinion, something that should satisfy the people who worked there and who worked in the companies that were, meaning whose Plobest is a legal follower. So, on this side people worked in the same factory, in the same building, in the same state, this one in the same space, had the same harmful influences, they did not exercise the right, those who were in the last period of work and the factory they would exercise the right. Everyone has objected to it all is logically the only regrettable thing is not to propose to the ministry people or to the people of our own incomprehensible reason. So on the board today we had such a discussion where one of the arguments was and that this one knows the exact number of those who might be looking for compensation without knowing that this number is multiplely higher or greater than the number that is now being mentioned. That's true, but if you take 550 people in it it seems to me 11 or 12 years that if it's 3 times the length of the period it can't be 20,000 but it can be 1,500 or 2,000 people that would be covered by it and then solve the whole problem. That is, all those exposed during this period of harmful asbestos would have the right to compensation. It is unclear why this is not being set up, and here I agree with Mrsic's argument, that it is very likely that these people can file a constitutional suit and eventually because of the inequality under the law of citizens who are supposed to be in the same position, it is very likely that this part of the constitutional suit will be accepted and that one part of the law will be moved from it. And on that side, it seems to me that I have heard that several clubs have already submitted the amendment and I have also submitted the amendment, and on the committee we have tried and as an amendment committee, but unfortunately the ruling majority has not been inclined to do so, although I believe they themselves understand that it is absurd and that we should support it. And so I appeal once again, meaning until the vote itself, and it obviously won't be tomorrow because there's no government session that, to refuse or accept these amendments, means by next week, I'm appealing to the government to reconsider and accept these amendments by the opposition clubs or representatives who have given each other to correct the injustice. So this is where I estimate 1,000 or two people and their families who are in the same position as those who will exercise the right to compensation. And another thing, here for us fellow Lackovic, but he submitted the amendment, so I would like to point out what he saw rightly, and the point is that even in a shorter period than 5 years, someone under the influence of asbestos can be exposed to asbestos and can get sick on that side, he suggested in his amendment, which I agree that if someone suffers from a disease that is naturally caused by asbestos, or by the influence of asbestos, that he be granted compensation and if it is shorter than 5 years. So what are we talking about? We're talking about that the government has defined here for 5 years as some period that you need to be exposed to being affected by your health and it's supported by a certain study of experts who have defined it in this way, but the fact is that there's one part of the people who worked there, who have been sick, who haven't worked for 5 years but have been doing it shorter, and now we're coming to absurde. Someone who worked there for five years will get damage even though he didn't get sick, and someone who worked for four years and two months and got sick won't get any damage. And these are the things we should also talk about here, and that's another amendment that's very logical to accept. So this is what the secretary of state said or someone on his team about 130 million kuna. If we correct the injustice of 130 million kunas, so let's not do injustice in the amount of perhaps another 130 million kuna people who also have the right to compensation and who would have achieved it because they worked for more than 5 years or worked less than 5 years and they got sick. Imagine how many people follow this debate, they wrote to you, we have all the memos of those people who look there and simply don't believe why those who worked directly with asbestos can't achieve this right if they did it during the 1980s or if they worked shorter and got sick because they didn't work for 5 years because, even if you didn't do it directly with asbestos, if you did some administrative work, you were, for example, a commercial passenger in Zagreb, you can get compensation. You may never have been in contact with asbestos, but you can get damages because Plobest had a safe representation in Zagreb or some other parts of Croatia. You've made deals, you've been a salesman, you've only seen asbestos on the offer you've made to someone for construction material, you've never been in contact with asbestos, and you'll end up getting money because you're able to prove with a work book that you've worked for more than 5 years in a given period in that company. But the one who worked directly with asbestos, got sick of the disease, can't get because 5 years ago, or not 5, doesn't have to be 5, can be a year earlier, or 2 months earlier. These are the illogical things that I simply think must be corrected for, I said, and the possibility of a constitutional suit, in the end it will certainly be brought up because people will simply be organised, it is thousands of people who are waiting for compensation like, as promised these 550 and will probably manage to organise and raise a constitutional suit and eventually we will be going through certain disputes, people will suffer and their families will go through certain traumas because they see that they are not in the same position as others and that this is the cause of a country that does not care about them in this way. So very simple, very logically we explained and supported this and we really expect the government to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182314	Thank you. We have a replica, or two replicas. One is Sasa Djujic's first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182315	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, this is an example of how a good law can be ruined by stubbornness. So, if not, the main observation was in the first reading on this date, to this date limit and yes, and it could be expected that the gentlemen of the government and that's a logical remark, and if that were to go away, today the debate, the first thing, would not last for 5 hours, but we would all go out on behalf of the club and say we were pleased that you supported our proposal and corrected this injustice, we support this law, thank you very much and goodbye. And now for one point they've given us here in opposition that we can talk all afternoon and what's the debate about? Those very examples that are illogical. Someone's been working for 20 years, 11 months, and 3 days, they're wrong, and someone's been working 5 years after that and they're right. It doesn't lead to anything, but what's worse, it creates, instead of a good law correcting an injustice, it creates new injustices for which tails and tails and which are not good for people will be drawn. Here, that's just bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182316	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182317	Thank you very much. I also have a problem with the fact that we didn't even get the information from the first debate. How many of these people have been employed since the beginning? So, he says today at the board meeting of the secretary of state, there are 550 of them from this period that we're looking at. And who stopped us from looking at it from the beginning, like there was no archives. It's like there's no record of how many people have been employed. So, if it had been willful, if it hadn't been for a sloppy, ad hoc, ad hoc, and no general intensity that the proposal we made in the first debate had been accepted and analysed, then today we'd get the data and we'd see what the number of people were. I guarantee you that this number of people isn't more than 1,000, 1500. So if the period is 3 times longer, there can't be 10 times as many people. It could be two or three times as many people. So on that side, it would've been nice if we had that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182318	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182319	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Maras, so you were here now saying something that was on the board and you said that the ruling didn't want to accept it, and you didn't really know how to formulate what it was about, nor was it any kind of amendment, let alone some kind of sentenceary excessive structure that we could talk about. However, we trusted the Proposer and the Proposer made it clear to you on the board what it was, why actually reference dates, as if you were asking by certain laws why certain limits, I don't know, in the craft, in the economy, in the finance, for the child's allowance, so there are always certain limits under which you can ić or exercise the right and when you do not exercise that right. So do you really think that the government of the Republic of Croatia who proposed this law that it was not with its initiative had a working group, professional bases, people, today we were talking about the laboratory of experts in medical work and that based on that they did not adopt such a bill, I mean, I'm sorry that you're ignoring it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182320	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182321	I don't know which study has shown that it should be from that date, so the study showed 5 years, but the study didn't show that if you were exposed to 5 years. During the '80s or the '70s that has no effect on your health, only if you have a study that shows that if you were exposed in the '70s 5. asbestos has no effect on your health then, and if you are exposed to 5 g. In 2000's asbestos that then has an effect on health, if you have that study show it, but of course there is no such study because it doesn't make sense, people when they're exposed to 5 g. The asbestos and the '70s and '80s and '90s and '2000s is the same harmful effect on their health, and that's what I suggested, it's not true that I didn't know it, so the amendment was written, but at the session I said it would, as it would say, but I didn't just suggest it, but there are 5 such amendments, so everyone uncoordinatedly saw what was illogical, only you in HDZ You don't accept. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182322	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182323	Thank you very much. As I said on behalf of the club, however, I also said that the club proposed an amendment immediately upon arrival, yesterday upon the arrival of the proposed law, I believe that the law is noble, socially inclusive, everything has to be supported and there is no very reason other than this time limit and injustice according to a certain number, it is said, as colleagues say, about 50, I don't have that information, but they said 50 people and I think you can come, talk about Plobest, about this law about... the compensation of those workers from that factory. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this law is good, it's fair, it's social, it's all what the triba have except this date of limitations. I don't see the same reason that since October 8, '91. until 21 October 2002 Only 5 years. Those workers inside that box. Because I'm going to say it again, which is, if the man got a job back in the '70s and worked until 2003, then he worked 30 years. Chovik, until 1994, worked almost 25 years, since the 1960s. And he doesn't get it right, and he's 35 years old. has also worked in this system, in this, since this reference date from the independent Republic, there from, you took some dates even though it was nice, somehow it was taken away on an Independence Day or I don't know what was taken there as a reference. And the nice thing about these people is that he was doing a four-year-old. of this date, 4 g. And 365 days, 364 days, means one day he's missing, and before he worked 35 years, since '66, '67, therefore, that's a bit of a sensitive question, and that question really doesn't leave much, doesn't leave exactly this, bitter taste left on his mouth, because of those 50 people according to this information given by parliamentary representatives from other clubs. So I see unity here, we can come in now and I'm sorry Minister Coric isn't here, because I think he's a bad minister... But this law is good. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I would now again commit to the same one from that same legal basis, the law passed in 2000 by the same legal, which is in the same legal situation, it is the Law on the compensation of Vranjic workers. I read you a letter, so 200, 172 workers per 219.000,00 kn, 50 workers turned out there, I mean, so it didn't exercise its right. Minister Ćoric, as Minister of Pension System and Labour and Pension System, was at meetings twice, his secretary and he was and was minister and promised people that the proposal would be resolved 15.6. In 2019, if it were in the process, it wasn't and people write to me, so the association of those 50 people who were not compensated, and I think it would be fair and it's not a great number, we can also expand, I just said the people who lived near this factory and Plobest and Salonita, can be seen from the other, let's say in the Split pool for sure it's out of the factory and people who weren't employees, the Salonita workers, they're probably due to the storm, the south, everything that's going on, the dust, they're probably these victims of asbestos, but here it's about one law that really is, I think, that it's just doing this right thing, and that's why I'd want to find some kind of a solution, I'd really like to eat and if I were an activist, I know when you want to get into the village to get an industrial expense, I know that I know that the people who've been able to do this stuff, and I'd like to do it, to get to get it, to get it, to get to get to do it to get it, to get to get to do it to get into the money, to get it, to get it, to get it, to get to get it, to get to get it, to get it, to the kids, to get to do to get to get to get to do to get it to get it to get it to get it to get it to get it to the kids, to the kids, to get it, to get it, to get it to get it, to get it to get it to the kids, to get it, to get it to get it, to get it to the people, to get it to get it to get it to get it to get it to the people, to the people, to the people, to get it to get it to get it to get it to the people, to the people, to the people, to the people, to the people, to the people to get it to the people, to get it to the people, to get it to get it to the people, to get it to the people, to the people, to the people, to get it to get it to get it to go, to go, to get it to get And we see the European Commission as well. The European Court of Justice has reached a certain verdict that it is this carcinogenic waste, it is not, it means it is dangerous waste. No matter how much Croatia complains, the waste still stands among the people who are poor and literally look at that hill, the black hill, the disaster. You see that when you go down the road, we see these problems that we have in space and that do damage. When I see only our Zrmanja I was down there it's a disaster. When I see our Krka, it's a disaster. But to our minister, I could now object that it is much more important to him to name Mrs Slavica who has the HDZ card and the HNS at the same time as the lady, so I will say it again to my colleague Jelkovac because your inspectorate, at the head of your Andrija Mikulić, has said that he has violated the Defence Act. Do you know that, have you read it? And that it is the Administrative Court, that Ćoric is the minister otherwise, he is the minister of environmental threats, and only comes to see the lagoons in Knin what affects Krk, what affects Krk. Replicate me, here I am today holding a press release. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs The state inspectorate says it is against the law of a solution, and the ruling of the Administrative Court of the seventh month where they also said it was an illegal appointment, but it is more important to satisfy Dujic's factors below, Dujic's click and this Pauk click, the colleague in front of it knows. But I don't want to talk about her now, of course it's not her, it's not her fault she knows she's in on it. I'm talking about this subject. [[We can, we can go back to Plobest.]] Why? It's more important to them. But this law, this law has really social inclusiveness and I don't see any reason, regardless of what I'm interested in to the minister yesterday, what this information came out on the day that internationally recognised Croatia has violated the rights of the defender, Mrs. Zmijanović, to satisfy its factors, of course, but this law, this law is noble, socially inclusive, correcting injustices. But only this amendment that we gave, no matter who gave it, is free I'll take it down, it's being given by the MOST Club here says number one, but that's irrelevant because we all talked in the debate at the first reading to decompose and these people just to move away this time limit and a phenomenal government proposal. Just put that away and I'll say good luck. Here I think without a problem, if something is solved the problem, I think he will agree and colleague Celic he comes from the Neretva Valley, that the law is noble and solves these injustices because of asbestos, people who have been caused. And that's what we're trying to think about. However, in this way I fear that it will remain a bitter taste in the mouth because it will be part of the citizens i.e. workers of the former factory Plobest and of course also of the Salonita, regardless of what it is about Plobest and then the triba count because they stem from the same situation. So they have the same situation in the same situation. This is indivisible regardless of the legislation on the Salonite was passed in 2011. Is it possible? I believe it's possible. To reduce that injustice against these 50 former workers who are victims of asbestos and 50 who are in Salonita, I think that can be solved. I deeply believe that can be solved. And I would ask you to solve this Plobest and to propose that you, as Government, amend the law by harmonising it without a time limit on this one to the Salonite. Because I'm talking to people down there, there are people from my Son who worked downstairs, who have asbestos and can't do it right, and people are seriously sick, they're severe asbestos disease. I mean, I know their families. And I repeat the law is excellent for me except for the time limit. And it's not about a large number of people, I think the tribals would be raised above politics, I withdraw this amendment at the same time not to mention it in general that I gave it. Let the government, I don't know how someone from the HDZ calls a minister or a respected secretary to call and let them solve this problem and I believe that it will be unanimous and that everyone will say that the government has done a lot, that the government is socially sensitive, that it shows that sensitivity. In this way it shows, but there remains a great injustice to a certain number of people, and what of course comes from the Constitution and legislation these people are damaged. I repeat, if anyone worked 40 years and worked from this date 18, October 8, '91. Four years and 11 months, he's not entitled to this compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182324	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, you have already proven that you are environmentally aware, so in this debate you went a little wider and on Vranjic although this is about Plobest workers, so you also talked about those people who lived near these factories but this law focuses primarily on the rights of workers who are professionally exposed to asbestos. So somewhere the line has to be drawn. So I'm going to tell you for the area, let's say, what is the amount of drugs that is for personal use, some countries have defined it, some have not. This law defines it and, of course, some will remain to be abolished. But what I would like to point out is that I asked the secretary of state, what about those people who have been for this period since '91. By 2002, they had broken their working relationship especially with Croatian defenders who went to war and had been interrupted. Apparently, there are people like that, and this law wouldn't apply to them. That should be checked.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182326	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182327	Yeah, it's a really specific question. Coliq, I have a little confession that I went wider in this section because it can be discussed more widely, but when it comes to employees, workers of the former and should talk in this way. Of course you should see in fact, we even have the date of termination when people, they stopped working the company, there were people who worked for more than 5 years at this time who didn't exercise that right. So I know about Salonita, and I know it's about Plobest, and I'm glad that this problem is solved. He'd like to get rid of it without restrictions. You have stated that this is the case, but I would like it without restrictions, and as for this part of the people who went to the homeland war to defend, whether they, too, would like the secretary to be manifested, and it is a good question for you to give people who went to the country war, had this interruption, if they were to exercise that right, so there are questions that can still be looked at here, so I don't think that a hat from your head would fall from this good law if the third reading was withdrawn, and within a short time came to the benefit of this Assembly with these suggestions that you're making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182328	The next replica of the respected representative, Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182329	Dear fellow Bulj, it is clear to all that this law creates another additional discrimination and it is clear that the government has been carelessly injured or that it has not consulted enough, and it has injured the Republic of Croatia's damage law for the former SFRY for which the former SFRY was responsible, the Republic of Croatia is a member of the Socialist Republic, these are workers who worked on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, these are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and there is no reason to put the date 1991, because it is obvious that one relatively large number of people will remain out of reach of this law, it is symptomatic that the government did not go at any time to assess the number of people, to assume that it is probably the same number as those who have the right to compensation, so this is some 100 million more kuna that the government could find. All I can say is they're doing this for some kind of imaginary savings. [[Intruder: Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182330	...Advocacy Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182331	Thank you very much, so, of course, that people worked before this date and that they created a general extra value, a general good in that company, then it was according to these legal regulations, and I don't see the reason why I don't have them, and that answer is missing, which is why until then, workers, imagine people who worked 30. in, means in the former state, but in the same factory and 4 g. And, and 11 months... So he was a 34-year-old man. And 11 months in, with asbestos and not going to exercise the right, so I have here a colleague Mrsic's number of people, so the association is, it's called the Bigle asbestos association, so their representative sent me that it's 50 people, we're talking about Salonite Vranjic, and fellow Orepic said it's similar outside of this and in this Plobest valley in Ploča, so it's known here, of course, that the tribal is going to check it out, I don't see any reason, and I don't think they'd all support it simply, I didn't see anyone that against this law, with this time limit moving away. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182332	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182333	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, we have before us the Final Proposal for the Law on the Compensation of Workers of Plobest d.d. from Ploč, the broad use of asbestos products began in the 1950s and in fact any building built before 2000 may contain asbestos, unfortunately we still have in the Republic of Croatia and some educational institutions and some health institutions where asbestos products are located, the problem of asbestos has long been present in both the Republic and the world, according to the World Health Organization of the world, 125 million people are exposed to asbestos in the workplace, there are therefore several diseases associated with asbestos, professional diseases, these are asbestos, pleuro disease, bronch and lung cancer and what is most dangerous, therefore deadly malignant mesothelioma. People are generally exposed to low levels of asbestos fibers in the environment, the key factor in the risk of disease development is the total number of fibers that are inhaled, I believe in the expert joint that took part in the adoption of this law, but the fact is that some data in the evaluations before and even now were missing, so the issue of measuring asbestos levels in the air of work space was unfortunately a common case in the Republic of Croatia, it is determined to be 5.g. Definitely as far as the profession is concerned, it can be discussed. Otherwise, cancer is the most common cause of deaths associated with work in EU countries, 53% of deaths associated with jobs are attributed to cancer, and most often it is lung cancer, mesothelioma and bladder cancer. According to the World Health Organization, every 10th lung cancer case is closely linked to working conditions and the most problematic sector is definitely a building. EU countries accepted 1999. the obligation to implement a series of measures to stop the use of asbestos, and the EU has limited the use and transport of asbestos-containing products by its legislation, Art. 191-193. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU is a legal basis for the regulation of chemicals and pesticides, as we refer to asbestos as well. Thanks to the 1999 Directives and the 2003 Directives, The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, In March 2013 The European Parliament has adopted a resolution on the health risk due to asbestos exposure at the workplace and the possibility of its full removal. The largest legal package relating to the protection and rights of workers professionally exposed to asbestos was adopted during 2007 and 2008. in the Republic of Croatia. By law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, the Republic of Croatia has made a commitment to pay off the initial demands of asbestos workers, 2011. The Reimbursement Act of the company of Salonit has been adopted in bankruptcy and we are now coming to the Law on the compensation of workers of Plobest d.d. from the record. Between the first and second readings, the number of workers proposed to be compensated has increased. What I would like to point out as a person from the valley of Neretva is the fact that asbestos will never leave the Ploca or the valley of Neretva. A colleague, Mrsic, spoke about what Mr Batinovic and the asbestos victim association advocated. Unfortunately, according to their data, over 400 people have already died of asbestos in the Neretva Valley. What they also stressed, therefore, is that on the table of the number of unpaid salaries in the Republic of Croatia that at the top of the asbestos workers, unfortunately this law will not cover all, will be covered by a large majority. Whether that number will be greater than 566 remains to be seen. So, after a 90-day deadline for the application, it is prescribed by law that a solution must be made within 30 days and at least those who are still alive at least that they get some kind of cash compensation, so I'm not for 3 reading and I think this law should be passed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182334	We have replicas. He is the first respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182335	Dear colleague Celic and I are doctors, and we know very well that whoever got mesothelioma that it is a death sentence, and it is a very clear direct link between asbestos and mesothelioma. This is very clearly confirmed by studies and it is known that it should be exposed to at least 5 years of asbestos so that then you can develop symptoms of asbestos. What concerns me in this law, I agree with you to bring it in as soon as possible, but I'm concerned that it's shared on those people who worked before '91. And those who worked after '91. Because asbestos exposure is the same before and after '91, it's the same people and I really don't know why that difference is done. It's probably about another 200, 300 people, so so it's about their heirs. We're creating a negative atmosphere down there we can say that asbestos was and Plobest was Chernobyl at the mouth of Neretva and I hope that you in HDZ will listen to our voice of opposition and remove that.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182336	Agent Cellic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182337	And here I am, in part, agreeing with what you said about the fact that there is no difference between those who worked before '91. and in the period of '91. By 2002, when the company went bankrupt. I wish they were included, but here's the interpretation, I also accept the interpretation of lawyers who say that the acquis is only since 8 October 1991 when Croatia broke all legal ties with the SFRY.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182338	The next replica is Djujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182339	Comrade Cellic, let the lawyers and the interpretations go. We were here earlier last year at some point discussing the legalization of marijuana for medical purposes. And then in the first reading we of the opposition were fierce to the government to accept it, the government resisted then, you were quite restrained in that debate. And then in the second reading, the government didn't accept it, and then you wrote the amendment to accept it, and then the government accepted your amendment and thank God today for the joy of many people whose medicine is we have legalized the use of marijuana for medical purposes. On that trail I appeal to you to write an amendment and to this law to remove this date barrier and to bring this to the joy of all those who are damaged by working with asbestos to pass the law already at the first next vote, immediately. So, I'm not for third reading, I'm for second reading, and I'm for rounding up, but with this amendment and moving this date barrier, and here I'm asking you to hand over that amendment because you're obviously lucky in these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182340	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182341	Dear fellow Djujic, I would now like to tell you that I do not tolerate amendments if I am not sure that they will be accepted as a representative of the position. So I understand the insistence and understand what you're saying but I also believe in what the lawyers suggest, that it's arranged in a way where it's simply as possible as the only relevant date.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182342	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182343	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow workers, respected colleagues and colleagues, so in the course of reading as early as the 10th month on the proposal of this law, we've actually looked back on a lot of things but also on your credit, thanks to the Minister, Ministry, Government of the Republic of Croatia, that this problem with the employees of a limited liability society is being solved, in fact, by all those who have been directly exposed to the work of asbestos as carcinogenic material and compensation that would result from this law. We were also in the first reading when it was in the 10th month listening to an infamous genealogy of this story of working with asbestos and events that actually happened in the '50s and we would say that until today. In today's debates and individual colleagues on behalf of clubs, they spoke and shed crocodile tears over this problem, although at times when they were in power, they did nothing to solve this problem. You could now speak to that 2011 law and read it to them or send it to a phonogram from that time so they actually see how they actually obstructed it in the people of Salonita in Vranjica. The Republic of Croatia is a serious country and, since it has signed certain international acts, one of these is related to asbestos has actually joined through its national legislation and the proposal of this law in order to make damages to workers, Plobest d.o.o. The injustices of the former system that didn't think about it at all, but it was that time, so it happened, the asbestos was then construction material and it was used in the car industry and about isolation and today when we talked about it, and more, I say, the speech in the first reading, then, I don't know, from Konaval to Kamenjek in Istria, from Kamenjak in Istria to Ilock would actually see countless what we see with the naked eye of facades, houses built from asbestos slabs, but also what is underground, and these are asbestos pipes connected to the water line that today, thank God, are much changed, but there are more in the country through which we drink drinking drinking drinking water, so we all wish that asbestos was not at all in the Republic, but all in its time and according to the possibilities that we can do so. However, it should be mentioned here and some laws adopted by HS, and then, thinking about all people who have been directly exposed to asbestos, so the Law on the compensation of workers who are professionally exposed to asbestos on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the Law on the age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, who actually have an increased pension of 26%, so all those who are not covered by this law, are also partly covered by this Old Pension Act where they have an increased pension. The average pension of people who have been affected or worked directly with asbestos is somewhere around 3.450,00 kn. So, if you remember when we talked about this Pension Insurance Act and those and special, the Special Pensions Act, there are 17 categories of citizens in the Republic of Croatia and one of them are also those who were directly exposed to asbestos, so that's what you should say and that's what it is, and through that law they're actually being compensated, they're being compensated by these workers, I'm saying because of some colleagues from the opposition who talked about this. Let's say that both committees, both in first reading and second reading, also accepted this bill, and on behalf of the club, said they would accept it, as I consider evolution as compared to 2011. And I'm giving them the right to accept this and to repay the workers of Plebest. Unlike the first reading or the difference compared to the first reading, in the second reading, it is true that at that time we and the Committee on Labour and Pensions System have spoken about the fact that together with the HZMO, these data are being checked to avoid perhaps creating an injustice against a person who deserves it, and cannot achieve it, thank you for that, because in this second reading you have stated that with another 56 employees after the first reading, it means 556 total that, you have said, and on the board 55 died, but their successors will receive the same kind of compensation. What we also had problems with, and it was a payoff,... It was in the first reading in 2019, '20, '21. And you also explained that to the board, I wasn't here if perhaps the Secretary of State said it on behalf of the motionary, so it would now extend to 2022, so the amount that was planned will actually happen as such to all those who should be compensated. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What my colleague Bulj was saying to me was about the workers of Salonita Vranjic. It is necessary to tell the truth about this, so as far as the workers themselves in Salonita Vranjic are concerned, because of the bankruptcy of 50 workers were then left who worked their entire working life in the company, but they were fired several months before the law defined. I have tried and with the resort minister and with the prime minister to discuss this that, the adoption of this law for them is discriminatory because they have not received their compensation, so at the specified time we will consider this case that these people, that these people too, that these people are being compensated, of course there are no firm guarantees, I like when they are being made those analyses, so you are also today on the Working Committee and the pension system actually saying why the reference dates, I tried to explain it briefly in the replica and why a certain limit. So, the company Plobest d.o.o. itself. Or her predecessor, we don't know at that time how many workers worked, there was another system, there was another state, there were workers from BiH, there were workers from Montenegro, not only from the Republic of Montenegro, and in fact there was such a story unseriously through the amendments, so completely unseriously, we didn't want to accept it as ruling, what Mr. Maras said, precisely because we don't have any bases, no analysis, we would actually be unserious, and we would extend the agony, the agony of these people. Perhaps even the end should be said that with the proposal of the Chairman of the Committee on Labour and Pensions System, he referred to the article. 2. this bill of law, it bothers him, in fact, the time we talked about, why 5 years, why not 4 years. For the 11th month 29 days, why not 6, 7, 8 or 10, so what you've told us is that I accept it as something that's correct, and that's that the working group and all those who worked on the bill's proposal, the professional people, the lawyers actually took these things into consideration, and from that aspect they passed this bill, in the second reading we've still fixed it, so there's no empty walk or any unspeakable data to any person who should have been covered by this law, and I think we've done one good thing. In my first reading, I'd like us not to do the job, to do the job until the end, not half. I'm grateful that you took this advice for HZMO, and I think people will welcome this law especially to those concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182344	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182345	Dear counterpart Babić, look, in 2010 I was here in the Croatian Parliament when the law was passed on the compensation of workers, Salonit Vranjic. And I asked here at that time the Minister of State why the Government didn't solve the issue of Plebest Plate. They said simply because no one put such demands there, and I know exactly who was doing the best they could to get away with it in the first place. It's not fair to work that way, then some previous governments are accused of not doing anything when it could have been the same, same law to solve everything. Although we have compensation here for damages, we have compensation for something the country's legal head of the SFRY signed long before '91, and that's a ban on the use of asbestos in the industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182346	Thank you. Honorable representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182347	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I have a phonogram from that time, actually, where you're more troublesome that these funds are not paid out of state, but out of the state budget, and the SDP was on the same track. Actually, it's more of a problem. What you're saying today, I agree with you. So it's never good to deal with things selectively, to look at things, but according to the possibilities. We can't talk about the time from 2011 and 2019 since we had a surplus of the state budget this year, that some things that may have been like injustices that had not been done by this society, some society before that, to make amends and that these employees would be compensated. I can actually agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182348	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182349	Thank you, Vice President. On behalf of the club MOST, Bulj expressed our position, so on Plobest and what was going on in the Tablets and the fact that even now with this bill we have a large number of people who will not be covered. This is what grieves us, and we warned of it in the first reading. We said clearly that it can't be taken as a reference thing from 1988, and then as a date to take this date means 8.10, and all that was before that and the people who worked in Plobest didn't include this law before. The question is also being raised, the colleagues here spoke during the debate and those they went to in the Homeland War. So Croatian defenders who during that period lost a poor part of this period that they needed for 5 years. And we suggest that all those who have worked for 5 years even though it is questionable whether it should be that 5-year term at all or whether that time period should be less. Because both medicine and scientific research and everything else have certainly progressed during this period, and it is very likely that the impact of asbestos on workers is more harmful to people and there is a great possibility that if these less than 5 years of age have been exposed to asbestos that you have some health consequences. In that sense, we'll give the amendment, and I'm glad my colleague Bulj warned about the Salonite question, they say here that the issue has been resolved, I've been warned by the workers, the workers' representatives that the issue has not been resolved for some 50 workers and I've received, I think that my colleague Bulj, was not there, I've been in meetings, but I think my colleague Bulj warned me about it. So Tomislav Ćoric met three times with, meaning Minister of Labour and Pension System with State Secretary also Katarina Ivankovic Knezevic at the ministry where the exclusive theme of the talks was the compensation of 50 Salonite workers who were skipped in damages. So 172 workers were compensated. During the time Tomislav Ćoric took over the ministry with him, they personally held 2 meetings in Trogir and Split, the only topics were the compensation of 50 Salonit workers and agreed on how to resolve and the final term that Minister Ćoric should deliver on his own proposal by 15.6.9. Instead of the proposal for a solution that they had agreed with Minister Coric, it is obvious that it is what they say, I quote them, that he knowingly deceived them, used them, and that they saw through those talks that he did not rule matter at all. So, in all the legal proposals for the lex plobest bill, the salon workers fell out of all the resolution options. And here I quote what they are asking me, in the second reading of the law in the assembly, we ask you to ask for an answer to what is with the Salonite workers and why they have been skipped by the resolution, and I am also asking a question, which means other than those 50 Salonite workers, what is with all these people who worked in Plobest, from the Neretva valley from Herzegovina and other parts not covered by this bill of yours, which do not fall within these deadlines that you have set and the dates that I think are unreasonable, because if you put 30.5. as Statehood Day, I don't know why you're taking this date now. If you don't want to have anything to do with the former state, but you are re-entering one contradiction or illogicality because you are calling for one survey from 1988. It is relevant to you, and it is not relevant for you that these people worked in Plobest were exposed to asbestos, and because of that they have health consequences, so we are asking for compensation from all workers, we will give an amendment in this direction, and from this place I call you to engage in the resolution and issues of these 50 Salonites who are not covered by that law when this issue has been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182350	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182351	Dear Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club, despite having two important objections to this law, will support the adoption of this law because, regardless of the objections we have, we can still not object to at least these 500 and some workers, or former workers, being disbursed. In my first reading, I was talking about the problem and Salonite's employee from Vranjic, and I remember being somewhere in 2010 or 2011. or even in 2009 was Vranjica, one Saturday morning when, when we were invited by all MPs from our constituency and I am familiar with the problem that unfortunately has not been solved for many years. As for the criteria for determining the right to compensation, I think it's too strict for both conditions to be met, so from October 8, '91. until 21 October 2002 and 5. in the same company, so from how it's written it turns out to be someone who's been since '88. By '94, so 6 years old, you wouldn't have the right to compensation, I did well periscription that it says so, which I think is unfair, so then we can ease that, that provision, and then October 8, '91. be the last date that someone was in a working relationship, and not the first, so I don't know what number of people it is that would be further covered, but from the point of view of some fairness and proportionality then even the constitutionality of that provision is questionable, so that the legislator has set one proportional share for those who are 5.g. They were in, exposed to asbestos, but they weren't exactly on those dates, but rather earlier, it might be a fairer solution that would then be more financially sustainable. However, no matter what remains of injustice, with this, and with these 566 workers will be at least in one, one part of the workers paid compensation and, of course, against such a proposal would not be, it would not be reasonable, I am sorry that the Government did not then take advantage of the opportunity to include a larger, larger number of people. Since it is therefore the final draft of the law, and it is, in fact, different from that of the first reading, which is that the payment will not begin in 2019 but in 2020. Then at least, I hope that the fund will make sure that the first payment is made in 2020. It will not be until the end of the year when it was already planned in the first reading in 2019, whether it be in the first quarter or at least by the end of the 4th month, so that it is not, it does not turn out that we have even delayed for one year because of the 20 days that the law came in 2020 and not in 2019. To conclude, we will vote in favour of the amendment proposed by MOST colleagues, but no matter what we consider to be a good law, we will not make it a condition for the law to be passed, because at least one part of the injustice will be corrected, and then it is up to us when we are able to correct the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182352	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182353	Final proposal of the Law on the compensation of workers of the company Plobest d.d., second reading, P.Z. No. 642, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, representative Gordan Maras, representative Željko Lacković and the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, with us is the Honorable Mile Horvat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. Well, let's go in turn, first amendment to the club of representatives of the independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182354	The first amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most shall not be accepted. Namely, this law recognises the right to compensation for workers who have been from 1 October of '91. until 21 October 2002 they were exposed to asbestos for at least 5 years. Issues of establishing a professional disease, health supervision of exposed workers and the right to an age pension of workers who were professionally exposed to asbestos during work in the workplace, have been governed by a special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182355	Who's going? Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182356	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, we disagree with this argument of the government. Namely, we ask this amendment to abolish the time limit on compensation rights, I don't know why you took the date of October 8th, namely this government went on to change the calendar and 30.5. was taken as a key day or a key date for Croatian statehood. You're also calling for one analysis from 1988 on the right to compensation, so you're taking something from the former state and when we talk about workers who worked at the time of the former state, you don't want to compensate. I also hear from Croatian defenders who were in the Homeland War and for this reason have lost one piece of the internship and now they don't get it in these 5 years since 8 October, one good part of the people won't be compensated, we ask that this be changed urgently, we will, of course, support the law because if it is going to help one man, it deserves the law to be supported but it is not good enough and I also want to take the opportunity to warn you, it is unfortunate that the HDZ representatives from the Xth Election Unit to the Salonites, 50 of them still haven't been compensated. We also ask that this issue be resolved and we will support the law because we support every good proposal so that it does not solve all the problems that exist, unfortunately, the ruling majority does not want to support any amendment of opposition as good as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182357	You're asking for a vote, I presume? We are voting on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to the second amendment of our esteemed colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182358	The amendment of the honourable representative Gordan Maras is not accepted by reason as well as by the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182359	Here you go, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182360	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the explanation is similar to what it was for the MOST Club, it's illogical. It means we're depriving 550 people, their families, and we're not likely to compensate twice as many of those who worked at the same factory before '91. A year. So how can we share people, how can we say that 5 years since '91? It's worth five years before '91. It's not worth it. On that side, it would be logical, Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the ruling majority, to allow such injustice to be corrected already by adopting, to adopt this amendment and not to create problems for people who are about to find themselves in a situation that their colleagues who worked in the period of '91. They still have the right to compensation, they don't have it before. And one also illogical thing, that people who had not been directly in contact with asbestos, for example a commercial traveler from Zagreb if he had worked since '91. Next, he will have the right to compensation, and he who worked at the factory in direct contact with asbestos, and he worked before '91. The year won't have any damage. People complain about it, you've all got workers' letters here, people who work there in Plobest, all have similar problems, don't share them in time. Adopt this amendment, do not do injustice because I am sure that this law and this article will fall in the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182361	We must also vote on this amendment that the government does not accept, so I ask that we vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 3 of MP Željko Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182362	This amendment is not accepted, the subject matter of this law is not the compensation of workers whose asbestos has been established, since this right is regulated by a special regulation and by the Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182363	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182364	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I have more objections to this bill. I think he represents one dangerous precedent when the law solves the situation one way or the other. I do not understand what position the Republic of Croatia is in, whether as then owner or holder of the right of social property as a responsible person or as a controller or as a Environmental Protection Fund as someone who cares about those who pollute air or working conditions. My suggestion was that the exposure prescribed for 5 years is not so strict and strict because you have people who have worked in direct contact with asbestos who, after 2, 3 years, have suffered from asbestos, and will not get damage under this law. Otherwise, this amount of €220,000 I do not know who set it is, in fact, the amount that according to the Supreme Court's case law is judged to be the most severe loss of family members, so to the death of a spouse, child or parent. So here is one significant amount that has been allocated and which could have been more justly allocated, especially given here and the fact that the projected budget for the restoration of family homes, energy, in the area of the entire Republic of Croatia is equal to this amount that is planned to be deployed here. I also believe there are elements of unconstitutionalness. This answer you said was solved by some other question I find incorrect, and you will open Pandora's kitchen because natural gas treatment plants were exposed to the influences of heavy metals, alive, and they will appear to you after this law legitimately with the same demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182365	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the latest amendment of the HSS and Democrats Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182366	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats is not accepted with an explanation that is identical to that of the amendments to the Club of Representatives of the Most and the Club, respectively, to the amendment of the honourable representative of Gordan Maras. Who's going to show up? Here you go, dear Mrssic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182367	Mr. President-in-Office of this amendment, the Government has clearly unwarrantedly limited the period during which compensation for lost health could be sought and is fully in line with the Law on Responsibilities of the Republic of Croatia for damages incurred in the former SFRY for which former SFRY was responsible, which was adopted in its assembly on 14 July 2003. In accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Croatian state is responsible for all the damage it has suffered as a legal successor to the company, if that was in its area. Furthermore, Article 2 makes it very clear that, in Article 2(2), the closest link referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is considered to exist if the injured party was a citizen of the former SR of Croatia at the time of the adverse event. So Plobest was in Croatia, he worked on Croatian territory and there is no reason why the government limited it to October 8th because workers were working both before and after. It is quite certain and very clear that this bill is fully in collegiate with Article 1 of the Law, which makes it very clear that the Croatian State should deprive Plobest workers regardless of whether they worked before '91. And after '91. We'll vote for this bill but we'll also file a constitutional suit because there's no reason to limit it to this date. Apparently, the government wanted to save money in some way because there's probably no other reason why they wouldn't have been damaged and the workers who worked in Plobest before '91. A year. This creates one discrimination and a bad atmosphere in the Neretva Valley and asbestos will be there for years, and workers will be left without compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182368	Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment that the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on the compensation of workers of the company Plobest d.d. Please, let's vote. I find that it is unanimous with 121 votes for the Law on the Compensation of Workers of the Plobest Company d.d.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182370	We are going to the next point, which is: - The proposal for a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2020. Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on European Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, Your Honor, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs Andrea Metelko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182371	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President HS, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me present to you a plan for harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the EU acquis for 2020. This plan is fully timely information on the legislative activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia planned during this 2020, and in order to comply with the acquis of the EU, so those newly adopted and for which the Republic of Croatia as well as all other Member States should coordinate their legislation. The correct transposition, application and implementation of EU law are primarily responsible for Member States, and the uniform application of EU law is crucial for the success and well-being of the EU, which is primarily based on the rule of law and is based on law as a basis of all its policies and priorities. Effective enforcement of EU law is also important for Croatian citizens because it affects their daily lives, whether they are fundamental freedoms, food security and products, traffic safety, air quality, consumer protection and a whole range of other areas. And also, therefore, it is not only important because the standard is rising important for our citizens, but coordination is equally important because it affects the strengthening of the competitiveness of both Member States and the EU as a whole. This, of course, is particularly important and is essential for the role of HS in the process of adopting national laws that harmonize Croatian legislation with the acquis. This year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the entire Government programme on the acquisition and implementation of the acquis on 27 December 2019, and this proposal for a coordination plan is an integral part of this programme and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is now submitting it here to you to accept it and thus accept your important role during this year of harmonisation of Croatian legislation. The legislative harmonisation plan itself contains 62 laws, and they are primarily in line with Croatian laws or are being adopted new ones with the acquis, and to a lesser extent Croatian laws are being drafted, which have been established inconsistencies with the acquis. The coordination plan also has a preventive effect, as this reduces the possibility and need, or better to say, the risk of incurring an infringement of EU law by the European Commission, which has contracts on the day of jurisdiction, to ensure that Member States have harmonised their legislation in a valid manner, and then that legislation which is part of the acquis should be applied properly. Given the key and non-replaceable role of the Croatian Parliament in the debate and adoption of legislative proposals here, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of this legislative plan for the current year 2020. Here's a thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182372	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will be a respected representative, Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182373	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What I would like to point out at the outset is that after only 6.5 years of EU membership which we have confirmed our international position and we are using the opportunity to be part of the legal, economic and development community or share common values with other members of our European family, Croatia has since 1 January taken over the six-month rotating presidency of the EU Council which is certainly an honor but also a responsibility. To this day, it is taught how and before us we have heard the Plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the EU for 2020, which is an integral part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme for the acquisition and implementation of the EU acquis, which the Government made for the seventh year in a row, and then adopted on 27 December 2019. We heard in the opening statement of the State Secretary that the plan represents complete and timely information on the legislative activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans to carry out during 2020, which concerns the further takeover of the EU acquis into our national legislation. In the EU, which I have already said is also a legal community, more specifically the rule of law community, which, of course, aims to share common values, the uniform and consistent application of EU law in all its Member States is crucial in order to give legitimacy to the European project and to strengthen the implementation of our policies and priorities. In this context, effective enforcement of EU rules is important for all Croatian citizens because it has a major direct impact on their daily lives. Even though the EU's acquis is constantly changing and developing, global circumstances are also very dynamic, it is also important that the Republic of Croatia adapts its legislation and is competitive in the common European market, thus ensuring the effective application of EU law, of course, in favour of its citizens. In this process, it is important to highlight the key role of this High House, which is reflected in the adoption of national laws to take over and ensure the implementation of newly adopted European legal acts. This year's plan envisions the adoption of 62 legislative measures, i.e. new laws or amendments and additions to existing laws which are divided according to quarter by that dynamic as stated in the materials. In particular, the importance of the timely takeover of the EU acquis should be highlighted once again, as in contrast, the Republic of Croatia would be exposed to the European Commission's response and the initiation of proceedings before the EU court for violations of EU law or any fines. I also stress that the adoption of this act by the Republic of Croatia, first and foremost, and under the conditions of the Presidency of the EU Council, confirms that it is also responsible for a functional Member State that is able to position its national interests in the creation of EU common policies with a clear aim of making consistent implementation of these laws primarily to the benefit of Croatian citizens and to bring them concrete benefits and better quality conditions in everyday life. Following the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the HDZ, it will support the adoption of the plan in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182374	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Josko Klisovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182375	Thank you very much, Vice President. I welcome the secretary of state and my associate. The SDP club regularly supported this proposal because it is simply our obligation to act as a member of the membership that we must bring Croatia's legislation into line with what we have already agreed to in the EU negotiations. But this time we have one question and our decision whether we support it or not will actually depend on your answer. In fact, we are in the election year, and this plan contains legislative activities throughout the period of this year, and now that Parliament is dissolved and the pre-election campaign starts, so the government will be technical, but the Parliament will not be able to pass more laws. Now, did you predict that moment in the plan and if you did say so, please tell me how it's going to work. I know that at this point we don't know when the parliamentary elections will be, but they will be. Now, I can be in the third quarter, in the fourth quarter, maybe before that. We don't know. But if we plan and the Parliament brings this plan, then we still have to keep that in mind because we're going to come up with a plan that we know we're not going to realize. There. Here, that's one thing I wanted to warn you about on behalf of the SDP Club, and in fact, I'm saying, your answer will depend on what we're going to talk about once more at the club. Another thing I'm interested in, we have a whole series of those procedures, so-called. Infrarement procedures. So in the EU where we are, let's say we have sinned, or the commission thinks we are violating the acquis. Can you give us a brief summary of these cases to see exactly where we are now, what are the cases in which Croatia by the commission is judged to violate the European acquis and what is the update in these cases, where exactly we stand? Does the government have any good arguments to challenge or is it ready to go that next step, making decisions about our violation? Here, these two things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182376	Thank you. Next, we are now moving on to an individual debate and will be the first to be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182377	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I want to highlight two things. So the first thing is that it's good, although this is a technical issue and basically a technical plan of the government, it's important that we and these topics talk about to bring the citizens closer to the importance of adopting these laws that are listed here in this plan and we should clearly say that we have these laws, and I know that sometimes when we adopt these so-called laws. European laws in this House of Highs. Not to pass these laws exclusively for the sake of the EU and because it is a European acquis but that they are for the benefit of all our citizens and that it is good for Croatia that we adopt laws that are in line with the European acquis. And the other thing is that I too have this dilemma that my colleague Klisovic said, so here we are now making a bill that, in four quarters or for this whole year, and I don't know how okay it is to bring some plan that would then be known in advance that it won't happen. If we go to the disbandment of a parliament that won't work, and then if we know that negotiations are going to go beyond that to put the government together, so if we remember those negotiations when the Bridge appeared that lasted for months, then it might happen that by half next year we don't have a government or parliament established, then how will laws be passed? That's one question. Or perhaps you, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, know something that we do not know because, by law and by the Constitution, parliamentary elections must be held no later than 3 months after the constitution of HS, which means that elections can be held at the latest on 14 January 2021, so maybe you're saying that we will then have with this proposal a plan that ends on 31.12 this year, so maybe Parliament will be able to pass laws. Here, I don't know, it's some of the doubts I have, but it's another thing that matters to me. I think it is important to stress that we are primarily bringing these laws for ourselves and for our citizens, not for the Europe that imposes this on us, and that our citizens live better when we live under these European standards. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182378	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was to be a respected representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. And then the last individual debate will be the respected representative of Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182379	Thank you, Vice President. Here, I am glad that only the SDP has an interest in discussing European issues. So my debate this individual will, of course, be related to the European topic. But I'd like to refer to something that we heard yesterday and what I'm saying and what I'd like to ask is that it actually materialises or that it happens. So when we talked about the future of Europe, then the Prime Minister said he was ready to open a debate in the Committee on European Affairs and Foreign Policy, that he was ready to bring foreign experts that I was ready to come or from the Foreign Ministry to direct people to participate in our debate. Now, I would not like to see this idea and direction given to the ministry here simply fall through quicksand rather this time, on such an important issue, to open the debate once than to have an interactive process of political debate on Europe's future in the Committee on Foreign Policy and on European Affairs in some common format. The dynamics of that, of course, won't depend solely on the presidents of our committees because they can call on it, but if no one comes off the board, it won't make much sense. It would be very good if we could have a meeting, not a whole committee, only the chairman of the board is sufficient at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the government to make one such hodogram of meetings with individual partners who would come either from abroad or from our government so that they could really have the first real input of parliament, so also opposition and ruling coalitions in such an important matter. Why does it matter? I explained it yesterday. Because tomorrow after the elections, maybe the government will change, and then it would be good if the consensus we reach about the future of Europe and that new majority in the Parliament and that new government were also to be implemented, that is to say, to stick to it. It's something that's a national interest, something that goes beyond one government, one parliamentary majority, something that we have to have a minimum consensus on the political scene. Of course, it is not directly related to the legislative harmonisation plan, but in a broader sense, of course, that Europe's future will also have to be resolved through documents and perhaps through legislative documents. There, so I only ask that this publicly delivered instructions from the prime minister be taken seriously yesterday and to contact the committee presidents in the Assembly, foreign policy and European affairs so that they can work together over the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182380	The Republic has a respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182381	Thank you very much, colleague Klisovic. You reminded me that yesterday, the prime minister highlighted as one of the priorities of the Croatian EU Presidency and the Green European projects, and now that we are speaking in the spirit of European legislation, I want to highlight a problem here, so the Republic of Croatia imports used cars in the Western European countries, which are, for example, Western European countries. diesel cars, those levels 5, so big, old vehicles and pollution, while, say, Germany and other EU countries are passing laws in their country where they ban the use of these cars even in some major cities, and now rather than following us, for example. These EU legislations and standards, what we do, we essentially penalize through the high excise purchase of new vehicles in the Republic of Croatia that are much more expensive than in neighbouring countries and we encourage imports and we become essentially a dump for used vehicles from Western Europe and what do you think about that? Should we follow the legislation there? [[Intruder: Thank you]] EU? [[Intruder: The Answer of Respected...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182382	...representative of Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182383	Thank you very much. Not only legislation, but also practice should follow developed EU countries, so, as we do not want to be a hot spot for migrants, we cannot and should not be a dump for old EU cars. Well, you see, in the end, this polluted air in Zagreb, so I think we're going to make today's decisions exactly where the environment in the Republic of Croatia will suffer. So, the green plan for Europe is not only for some of the far north and western countries of the Republic of Croatia, it is for both the Republic of Croatia and we really need to be consistent, we need to be really firm in this and as a parliament and as a society and as a government in the end to determine towards the future, according to the green future, if otherwise and the future will not be, and then it will be difficult for us to function within the EU because we will somehow experience ourselves as a country on tail that is unable to implement high ecological standards that are expensive, but in the end we are here to come up with a model that we will still implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182384	Thank you, and I will now ask on behalf of the motionary, Madam Secretary of State. Andreu Metelko Zgombic to say the final thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182385	I thank you, thank you for these interventions and for the questions asked, when it comes to the dynamics of harmonisation of legislation for 2020. The draft plan itself is divided into 4 units, so in 4 quarters, with the adoption of 36 laws in the second 5 in the third 13, and in the fourth 8 legislative proposals. What is important and necessary is for these laws to be adopted during the following year, there are certain additional deadlines for the adoption of certain laws during this year, however, the parliamentary elections themselves, the termination of the work of HS in no way should and will not affect the dynamics of adoption, so the government will, in order to achieve this plan which it itself has drawn out, and which we are putting forward here HS, either these laws will either give something in the process itself or after the re-invoking of the Parliament when it is established, so that the parliamentary elections themselves should in no way affect the ability of the Republic, align with this legislation. When it comes to infringement proceedings, we can say that at this point we do not have any proceedings before the EU court, but that all those proceedings are prejudicial proceedings in which we have some communication between the European Commission and the Republic of Croatia, in order to determine whether there really is any doubt, whether there is a suspicion of damage to the acquis or not, at this point we all have 47 of these pre-trial communications with the European Commission, and of that we have closed 96 before that, so this is one living communication between the European Commission and each Member State. If we wanted to compare ourselves with other Member States, it might be a good idea to be 2018. 14 such proceedings with the European Commission and that we are from, from, the best from behind, so that we are on, I would say in the second place in a small number of proceedings, in particular Estonia is the only thing better that has had several procedures less, so for now, I think that the Republic of Croatia is very well dealing with its obligation to comply with its legislation with the acquis and we intend to continue. So once again, when it comes to judicial proceedings, we do not have one, of course, if we do not count this one that has not launched the European Commission but Slovenia against the Republic of Croatia, but in the process of determining jurisdiction we do not really consider that there is no breach of EU law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182386	We have a replica of the respected representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182387	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Thank you for the explanation, so if I understand the timing correctly, it is important to adopt it at this year when we know when the parliamentary elections are I will be happy to do so in principle sooner or later when it is expected to be already established by the new Parliament. Well, if the resistors are really going to be able to react so quickly and flexiblely, and what happens if it's not adopted, we transfer it to next year, then it's not going according to plan, but we're actually not in any big breach of anything, and basically everything is going right, I guess. As for this, infringements of EU law, well that the Republic of Croatia does not have a lot of these injuries, that we are among the better in the EU, but there have been serious cases, including the INA case, so that's what's interesting in fact to see all these cases currently standing, some of them being discussed on the Committee on European Affairs more than a year ago, but we never got update on the board on the state of affairs. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182388	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182389	So when it comes to this procedure specifically compared to the INA, it is concluded, and therefore no infringement has been suspended, it has not been established. I'm saying, we really have a very good... And so far, this success in proving that we're not really hurting the legal acquired, and I think we should continue that as well. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182390	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate, and we will vote on this point when the conditions are met, although I see only two SDP deputies and three HDZ deputies in the hall and I will remind you, however, that we will continue to work tomorrow at 9:30. The first item will be the Proposal for a Law on the Centre for Special Care, first reading, P.U. Number 804, and I stress, I remind you that the vote will be at 13:30, and not at 12 as usual, because most of the colleagues do not find this fellow outside the country, and he only arrives at 12 o'clock, it seems to me, the plane is landing. Here, have a good afternoon. Session interrupted at 1700 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-16-0.u182391	Proposal for a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2020. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the EU acquis for 2020. Please, let's vote. I find 120 votes unanimously for the draft plan.
