ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187460	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. You are facing two legislative proposals today, the first final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the transfer and unification of contributions to the single recovery fund and related to the amendments and additions to the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment companies implementing this first law. The law is designed to further bring Croatia's legal framework into line with EU rules in this area, or closer to the implementation of Regulation No. 806/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down uniform rules and uniform procedure for the resolution of credit institutions and certain investment companies. On 27 May last year, the Republic of Croatia sent a request to the European Central Bank for close cooperation between the CNB and the European Central Bank, and subsequently sent a letter of intention to enter the European Course Mechanism on 4 July. The ERM II and the Banking Union, as well as the action plan, which includes countermeasures in the area of supervision or resolution of banks, further strengthening the supervisory of the banking system by establishing close cooperation between the CNB and the European Central Bank. In fact, the euro area Member States are also automatically members of the banking union, while Member States outside the euro area may request close cooperation with the European Central Bank or access a single supervisory mechanism and a single rehabilitation mechanism as part of the EU banking union. As you know, the banking union was created in response to the 2008 financial crisis, as it became clear that, for example, problems caused by high ties between public finances and the banking sector can easily be spilled across national borders and cause problems in other EU Member States. Therefore, the objective of establishing and establishing a banking union is to reduce the possibility that bank balances problems are negatively reflected in public finances and vice versa, which consequently means that the cost of resuscitation of banks would no longer be borne by the state but primarily by the owners and the Single Resupply Fund, i.e. the money from the Single Sanancies Fund, which is also filled with credit institutions. The banking union basically consists of three pillars, the first centralised banking supervision system, which is called the Single Supervisory Mechanism, then there is a common system of bank recovery called the Single Restraint Mechanism, which is the subject of these two laws today and there is a common deposit insurance system which I would still say in turn given the relatively slow negotiations concerning the future of this joint deposit insurance system, and in due course that third pillar will not yet be established. The Single Supervisory Mechanism is the first pillar of the Banking Union and started working on 4 July 2014 and a new framework for the supervision of banks in the EU, made up of the European Central Bank and the national supervisory authorities of the Member States participating in the supervisory mechanism. The main objectives of this single supervisory mechanism are to ensure the security and reliability of the European banking system and to contribute to financial integration and stability in Europe. The unique rehabilitation mechanism, so what we are saying today in the context of these two laws, represents the second pillar of the banking union, which complements the Single Supervisory Mechanism, is made up of the Single Resuscitation Committee, as a resolution body at EU level. Furthermore, the Single Renaissance Fund as a joint recovery fund financed by the bank sector in the EU and the national resolution bodies. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it is now known that these are the three rehabilitation bodies, the first one is the National Bank to plan for the recovery of credit institutions, then the HANFA is responsible for planning the recovery of investment companies and DAB, or the State Agency for the Insurance of Savings Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, it is responsible for the implementation of the recovery of credit institutions and investment companies and the management of the Rehabilitation Fund. The main purpose of the Single Sanitary Mechanism is to ensure an effective resolution of banks within the banking union with minimum costs for taxpayers and for the real economy, while establishing rules on the transfer and unification of collected contributions. It is important to stress that these two proposals of the law exclusively apply to the Single Renaissance Mechanism as the second pillar of the Banking Union, which complements the Single Supervisory Mechanism, i.e. the first pillar of the Banking Union. Therefore, as regards the rules and procedures relating to the establishment, operation, management and financing of the deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia, they are not changed and are still regulated by the current Deposit Insurance Act of 2015, and under that law, the deposit insurance system is managed by the DAB. As regards this Single Sanitary Mechanism as the second pillar of the Banking Union, a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was signed on 21 May 2014 on the transfer and unification of contributions to the Single Resilience Fund. In December 2013, the EU Council decided to apply an Intergovernmental Agreement establishing rules for the transfer and unification of contributions with a view to ensuring maximum legal certainty. The agreement, together with the aforementioned Regulation 806/2014, is an important step in establishing a Banking Union which implies the establishment of an integrated financial framework within the euro area that will ensure financial stability and reduce the transfer of the banking system to countries or the euro area. The EU Member States which have signed the agreement and are not yet part of the Banking Union will be subject to the rules and obligations resulting from the agreement when they become part of the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Single Sanitary Mechanism. As from the date of establishment of close cooperation with the European Central Bank, the Republic of Croatia is becoming a participating Member State in the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Unity Resuscitation Mechanism, it is therefore necessary to confirm that agreement, in order to meet the preconditions necessary for the transfer of contributions collected from the Resuscitation Fund in the Republic of Croatia to the Unique Resiliency Fund. The bill of law brings the following news. Therefore, the transfer of the contributions paid by credit institutions to the pension fund in the Republic of Croatia managed by the DAB to the Single Reanimation Fund established at EU level, which is, as is said, part of the second pillar of the Banking Union in relation to the Single Sanitary Mechanism. The Single Renaissance Board shall be the main financial body for decision-making under the Single Sanitary Mechanism and shall decide on the use of the Single Sanantia Fund. The Single Renaissance Fund consists initially of sections belonging to Member States, so it started to operate on 1.1.2016, and the sections will gradually unite over 8 years in the Unique Renaissance Fund, which should eventually reach... of at least 1% of the amount of covered deposits to all authorised credit institutions of all Member States, the amount being estimated at 60 billion euros and currently at around 33 billion euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bill confers powers on the state agency, the DAB, to transfer on behalf of the Republic of Croatia the funds of the Sanitary Fund to the Unique Renaissance Fund. The transfer of Member States' contributions to the contribution of Member States that become part of the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Unity Sanitary Mechanism, following the date of application of the Agreement, should be carried out by respecting the principle of equal treatment towards the parties involved in the supervisory mechanism and the rehabilitation mechanism, so on the date of the application of the Agreement itself. The Agreement also provides for the obligation to pay the contribution, an additional contribution, if the funds available to the Sanitary Fund are not sufficient to transfer to the Single Resuscitation Fund, and in the amount of the decision of the Single Sanitary Committee. Additional contributions will be collected from institutions and branches of third country institutions authorised to work in the Republic of Croatia, the risk profile ratio of the institution, determined according to the risk-finding criteria and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment firms. As far as the entry into force is concerned, I propose that the law enter into force on the day of the European Central Bank Decision establishing close cooperation from the Article. 7th century 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013. As regards the first law, as regards the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, as you know, the applicable law lays down rules, procedures and instruments for the resolution of credit institutions and investment firms, then the powers, tasks of the resolution authorities, and the establishment, financing and use of the funds of the Sanitary Fund and its management. In addition, all of this section, which I mentioned in the introduction, relates to these provisions of this law in the context and Regulation 806/2014 itself, as well as to this part of the close cooperation and entry into the ERM II course mechanism, and since the date of establishment of a close cooperation with the European Central Bank, the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the meaning of Regulation 806, becomes a participating Member State in the Unity Reanimation Mechanism, which provides for a centralised mechanism for the rehabilitation of all credit institutions... in the participating Member States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That regulation establishes a centralised resolution authority, as I said to the Unity Reanimation Committee, national resolution authorities, as well as parts of the unique, unique recovery mechanism. As has been said, the Single Renaissance Mechanism represents the second pillar of the Banking Union and is made up of the Single Renaissance Committee, the National Renaissance Authorities and the Unique Renaissance Fund as a joint recovery fund financed by the banking sector in the EU. In order to ensure uniform financing of the recovery in the Banking Union, the Single Restitution Fund has been set up and, therefore, by 24, the Fund should reach a level of 1% of the amounts in the secured deposits of all credit institutions authorised to work in the Member States. As far as the news is concerned, from the date of the establishment of close cooperation with the European Central Bank, the Republic of Croatia has become a participating Member State in the Single Reanimation Mechanism, which ensures a centralised mechanism for the resolution of all credit institutions with... in the participating Member States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The centralised resolution authority within the single recovery mechanism was then established and entrusted to the Unity Resuscitation Committee and the National Resuscitation Authorities. The unique recovery mechanism covers all credit institutions with... in the Member States participating in which... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] companies, investment firms and financial institutions included in the consolidated supervision of the European Central Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the Unity Renaissance Mechanism, then the Unity Renaissance Committee, in addition to the general responsibility for the effective and consistent functioning of the Unity Sanitation Mechanism, will become directly responsible for the exercise of resuscitation powers over part of credit institutions and with its head office in the Republic of Croatia. In the case of entities, specifically credit institutions and groups of credit institutions for which the Unity Responsibilities Committee will become directly responsible or competent, responsibility and authority for the conduct of the decision and instructions of the Single Sanitary Committee, the CNB will be assigned before the decision on recovery is taken, and the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks following the decision on recovery by the Single Sanancies Committee. The right to vote at the plenary executive meetings of the Single Sanancies Committee will have a representative of the CNB, and when it comes to issues under the power of the DAB, in accordance with the division of voting powers, their opinion will be taken into account. The funds of the Sanitary Fund, except for the achievement of the recovery objectives, will also serve to meet the obligation to transfer the contributions that institutions are obliged to pay in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 806 of 2014 to the single recovery fund. Furthermore, the draft law provides for the obligation of institutions to which Regulation 806 applies to payments of contributions to a single recovery fund in accordance with the provisions of Articles 70 and 71 of the Regulation in the recovery fund managed by the DAB. Those contributions will be transferred by the DAB to the single recovery fund. For the purpose of calculating the achievement of the objectives, the target level of the sanity fund will be included in the amount of the contribution of the sanity fund to be transferred to the single recovery fund as a means of money to be transferred from the sanity fund in accordance with the Law on the confirmation of the transfer and unification of the contribution of the single recovery fund, therefore to this previous law. Furthermore, this bill makes a change in how certain data are collected. DAB will no longer collect certain data through the CNB or HANFE as competent authorities but directly and independently. The previous contribution for each institution and branch of a third country institution authorised to work in the Republic of Croatia will be calculated on the basis of data from the financial reports submitted to the DAB. The draft law provides for the obligation of the institutions and branches of third-country institutions established in the EH to pay compensation for the settlement of the administrative expenditures of the DAB relating to the function of the Sanitary Authority and to cooperate with the Single Rehabilitation Board. The same amount of annual compensation for the administrative expenditures of an institution and a branch of an institution from a third country which has an authorisation to work in Croatia cannot be more than 5% of its annual contribution. This proposal also provides for the possibility for the CNB or the HANFI to give orders to the institutions, in this case to credit institutions for which a single resolution committee is not directly responsible to contact potential customers with the aim of preparing resolution institutions and to ensure the authority of the resolution authorities in the early intervention phase. As regards the entry into force, as well as the previous law, it would enter into force on the date of application of the decision establishing the close cooperation referred to in Article 7. Council Regulation No 102 of 2013 to be published in the Official Journal of the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187461	I thank the Secretary of State. We've got two replicas, the first one's a colleague of Lalovec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187462	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, there's only one information about the DAB that will be integrated into this single recovery fund in the future. We know that he's an extra budget fund today, even though the state isn't paying off, but the banks themselves are paying off that money, and if there's any problem with the deposit, he's throwing him out, he's actually paying him off, and in the future we see that he's going to be doing it by a single resolution body. Well, I am quite interested in communication with the European Commission, and since the DAB today is an integral part of the budget, i.e. here, voting in the assembly, I wonder if it will no longer be an integral part of the documents in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187463	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187464	Here, thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, as you yourself have said, the special part of the general budget is this part and income and expenditure in this case and DAB and until the end of the phase of 8 years DAB will remain within this as such. After the transfer of the DAB function will remain in the context of the savings deposit insurance as I have said, this is the third pillar of the banking union that is still in negotiations and I am not sure given the speed or slowness of these negotiations that this will almost come to life. Therefore, only in the context of the resolution of banks does this part, but this part of the application of the Insurance Act remains in force and in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187465	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187466	Dear Secretary of State, allow me one comment. Therefore, it should certainly be welcomed that the risk of business is borne by owners and creditors, and not by taxpayers, and these amendments of the law are passed. On the other hand definitely Kuna is leaving, that's intent, that's the way, what's the objection that citizens are still asking nothing about this process. We can conclude from this, at least that's my opinion, that money will be, the price of money will fall through interest, but what I'm worried about, that money won't be available. It seems to me that it will not be available for either the Croatian economy or the Croatian citizens. It's one of the problems I see in the future. We at the moment, large system banks in the Republic of Croatia are ZABA, Business Bank and ERSTE. What will be, once again, I ask the question, what will happen to the Croatian Post Bank and the Croatian Bank owned by the Republic of Croatia? What are these mechanisms that will be able to apply to these banks for, for their maintenance?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187467	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187468	Here, thank you very much. Well, since you've noticed very well yourself, I'm a fund filled primarily with systemically important banks, and so are these banks you mentioned, and at EU level there's 1,300 somewhere around financial institutions that will fill this fund with 24 of them. So the very robustness of the fund that will be planned in the future at 60 billion is currently 33 it gives the right to believe that this proper work of the Committee itself will be established and where a member, one of the members at the end and the Republic of Croatia, with its representative in this case, will also take care of such matters. Of course, as I was introducing the fund, so here I repeat once again,.../incomprehensible/... bear first and foremost the owners of the bank, the bank, the creditors, and only then the recovery funds themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187469	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović, A Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and Let's change Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187470	Dear Mr. President of the Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear secretary of state, I especially welcome you citizens who are following us because this is a rare opportunity for you to hear about such serious issues because on Croatian television you can hear about the banking union, about the euro, and not always talk about it by the same people or the main economists of some banks who have enslaved Croatian citizens through the Swiss franc, etc. No, it just doesn't. So I have asked the President of the Parliament several times that the subject of the European Banking Union, the issue of introducing the euro, why it is not yet needed to put it on the agenda for the plenary session, unfortunately it has never been accepted because they obviously consider these to be less important issues for the Croatian economy and Croatian society. This is about the fundamental issues of the future of the Croatian economy of the Croatian state and society. Why? Because we see how now the government, or its president, is pushing into the euro project, they're signing, practically speeding up. Why especially now during the Presidency of the Croatian EU? He wants to make an impression, be careful. What do they like, or what is the situation? That the centres of power always love weak governments or weak states or weak state institutions, and the weak presidents of the government and their team want to give responsibility to someone else as soon as possible, especially in Brussels to get rid of those responsibilities, so if something bad happens tomorrow, then they're not to blame. In this sense, you now see yourself pushing, you see how quickly the issue of Croatia's entry into the Single Banking Union, the issue of resuscitating banks and joining this unique supervisory system of banks. Why? Because the Single Banking Union is under a rate mechanism called ERM II, these are two key preconditions for a country to join tomorrow or join the euro. Now, you can see that across your nose, this government and its president are rushing to put Croatia into the euro project as soon as possible and that Croatia accepts the euro as soon as possible without understanding where they fall or understand, so they intend to do so for other interests. You see, these are big and important questions we're looking for answers to. In the party, we change Croatia, we believe that Croatia is not ready to introduce the euro, that this decision should be postponed indefinitely. Why? The fact is that we signed the pre-accession agreement, but we didn't sign it, they signed the same people who are speeding up this process today. You see, all seven chapters on EU accession in the area of economy have been signed by three people who are shaming Croatia today, that is the finance minister, the CNB governor and former HDZ Deputy Prime Minister, and they still hold the main word in the Croatian economy. So they signed it, they're pushing today, and we know what all these people did wrong for the Croatian economy, that's what they're talking about and they're going to talk about and they want to put us on a fast train to Greece that we have a future scenario like Greece did. But respected citizens you know that we from the party change Croatia do not like to talk about ideology, not only do we like to criticise, but I will now specify a bunch of arguments about what I just said. Why would Croatia become a member of the European Banking Union? We may have had some big problems like the banks there? During the 2008 financial crisis, the largest European banks made huge losses due to speculation on the US real estate market and of course around the world and increased the public debt of EU member states by at least 20% of percentage points. In this sense, we can speak and say that banks have become today the most dangerous financial institutions, or institutions that have already shown most potentially work and can destabilise both the financial system and the economy and the entire country, or peoples. Why did they become the most dangerous financial institutions? Because of their enormous size and strength. We can call them megabanks, so let's say that 10 of the largest banks in the EU have assets equal to GDP of all EU member states, I repeat, 10 of the largest banks have assets equal to the size of GDP of all EU member states. It's something to imagine. Now, the elemental question is why are you pushing us into the euro, why are you pushing us into the European Banking Union? As the answer is this, so we go towards the European Banking Union, know they are more orderly, they will monitor it better, we see that nothing works with us will make us better. But I repeat, we did not have budget expenditure from 2008 to today in terms of the failure of or the loss of Croatian banks. Why? They're so small, they didn't deal with speculation in international markets, and that's our luck, otherwise they'd get hurt. On the other hand, what do we need ERM II for? Well, we've had the ERM II course mechanism for 25 years. How can I prove it? So for 25 years, the kuna course varies around the central course towards the euro plus minus 3%, let's say. This is considered a stable fixed exchange rate in economic theory. So if we had a stable exchange rate for 25 years, if we had stable banking relatively better than these losses, then the question is why hasn't our economy taken off? Why didn't we have much more economic growth rates? What's the problem? See, that's what answers are for. So it's no big deal that we, if we had an unstable exchange rate, that we had problems, that we had huge bank losses because of the investment outside, no. The thing is, we can't make it anywhere, there's no union, no alliance, call out where you want Croatia to succeed until it's settled, not dealing with these domestic thugs, with domestic corruption, clientelism, without it we can't do anything about it. There's no alliance, there's no union. So we have to clear up with our own people first or we won't do anything. Let's take an example from Europe, which is the same thing when you've heard from your fellow citizens, you've heard about it, for example. in Germany Deutsche Bank, the biggest problem, the biggest potential threat to the German economy, and the European one is Deutsche Bank, which is 146 years old, which is the notion of banking in the world. It is now convulsing in debt, it has debts of around 1,400 – 500 billion euros. No one knows in Germany how to solve Deutsche Banka's problem, that's what they're trying to do and that's where they're trying to get over it, but they can't. Last year, she had a loss of only 6 billion euros last year and so because she died. She, she was one of the biggest money launderers in the world, paid only in America $14 billion in fines for it. So we're dealing with mega-banks, you see Deutsche Bank, which was an example of a reputation, a global reputation for a bank that collapsed. Therefore, it confirms this thesis that I said that banks have become potentially the greatest danger to the world and national economies. Now, what would lead us to the supervisory take over the single EU body? Well, that's what we've got now. On the other hand, what is positive? in this law, in these directives. It is positive that in the event of bank losses in the EU, even with us, shareholders will pay first. But now people think that if they pay the shareholder it'll be enough to get one bank or more banks, no matter how close it is, not far enough. Well, we saw in the past crisis that it wasn't the central bank's state that they put in a huge amount of loan support and the banks would collapse and drag the entire economy behind them. So, these topics are too serious about this I repeat myself in the Croatian official media is not speaking at all, if spoken of as a cheerleader on the one hand, to go only in favor of this government, which, as a goose in the fog, pushes us into this project without critical thinking. There are now, I would now say a few things about banking in Croatia. In this context, the question arises what banking is in Croatia, so our banks are 90% not our banks, these are 90 percent foreign-owned banks. The party Change Croatia will come with the will of the citizens in position and we will press to return at least 50% of the banks to Croatian property in the next few years. This percentage of foreign ownership of 90% had Poland, Hungary and other countries. Poland and Hungary have already returned their share to 50%, one who thinks they can run some economic policy, and not have at least 50% of the banks in their possession are wrong or has shown him for the past 15-20 years that it is not, therefore, true. Therefore, we must not rush into the EURO project if we do, and I see that it is collapsing and hastening, to show, that this government is being assigned to the centres and centres of power in Brussels and Frankfurt, we from the Party Change Croatia, and we see that there is a mood among other opposition parties we will launch a referendum. There won't be another one. Why has Denmark and Sweden not yet joined the banking union? And because they haven't even joined the EURO project, no one is forcing them. The smartest in these.../incomprehensible times to stand and watch. Great Britain has come out, Brexit is an unprecedentedly difficult message. We have not discussed the present and future of the EU here, this project has been taken over by financial capital, financial oligarchy, and people and sovereign states have been thrown into the corner. So, the original beginners of the noble idea of the EU they roll over probably in the grave when they see, they wanted a union of sovereign peoples. That idea has taken over large capital, financial oligarchy, and she will unfortunately have to say to ruin it. The EURO project is a great shame. Why? Because she's pushing herself. Far more appropriate was the mechanism called ERM I, which was based on the accounting currency called ACQUIS and where countries could enter and exit if they were left in some of the problems for a certain period of time and return. If it gets in here, there's supposed to be no going out. A project and a union that doesn't provide for the possibility of flexibility to come out, so you recover, this project itself will begin to self-destruct and thus lead to destruction. In this context, in this context, in order to conclude the Change Party, Croatia is looking for, or we are going to do, influence the implementation of the percentage of domestic banks in Croatia to 50%. And another thing why the EU, here we are now preside over, why the order has not been introduced in recent years, why is the situation in Zagreb Bank now that it has become a foreign money launderer? Why is it now that it has been published why Frankfurt from the European Central Bank in Brussels does not help to mean that after this report by the CNB, which is finished fatter than my information, nothing is revealed. So why don't their institutions come to help Croatia as a country of weak institutions, this country is weak. Thus, it shows that Brussels is simply looking for some things to be done propagandaly, and it has left the Member State to deal with its affairs, to tolerate corruption, clientism and everything else. Why was it allowed to banks, why was the European Central Bank and others not responding when loans were traded here in Swiss francs? Why is it allowed for debt enforcement agencies to terrorise citizens like this? All dear citizens we have a simple task, in the next election or we will support change and bring new people or be prepared for the final break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187471	We're going to another club of representatives, it's HDZ respected colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187472	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable state secretary with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have a united discussion on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the transfer and unification of contributions to the single recovery fund, this is also a second reading on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rehabilitation of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. In fact, over the past decades, the Union has made progress in creating the internal market for banking services, which is crucial to foster economic growth in the Union and adequate financing of the real economy. However, the financial and economic crisis has shown that the functioning of the internal market in this area is at risk and that there is an increasing risk of financial fragmentation, a real source of concern on the internal market and on the internal market where banks should be able to carry out significant cross-border activities. We know that the Republic of Croatia has made an Action Plan to join the European exchange rate mechanism ERM II and the banking union, and it also includes the confirmation of this agreement on the transfer and unification of contributions to the Single Restitution Fund. As from the date of establishment of a close cooperation with the European Central Bank of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 806/2014, it becomes a participating Member State in the Single Reanimation Mechanism. Fulfillment of measures against the action plan for entry into this mechanism, the government intends to complete by May this year. When we talk about the agreement, then we must say that the agreement has decided to establish rules on the transfer and unification of the contributions of credit institutions with the aim of ensuring the highest possible level of legal certainty. Contributions paid by credit institutions, collected at national level, will thus be transferred to the Single Restitution Fund, which initially consists of sections belonging to Member States. Sections will gradually be pooled over eight years in the Single Renaissance Fund, which should eventually reach the target level of at least 1% of the amount of covered deposits in all authorised credit institutions of all participating Member States. The proposal for a law gives the DAB authority to transfer on behalf of the Republic of Croatia the funds of the Sanitary Fund to the Unity Rehabilitation Fund. Furthermore, the obligation to pay an additional contribution shall be established if the available financial resources of the Sanitary Fund are not sufficient to transfer to that single fund. Additional contributions will be collected from institutions and branches of third country institutions authorised to work in the Republic of Croatia in a proportionate risk profile of institutions in accordance with the risk-setting criteria in accordance with the provisions of our current Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment firms. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the recovery of credit institutions will be the place where all contributions from entities authorised to work in the territory of the Republic of Croatia are paid, and the part which is subsequently transferred to the Single Resilience Fund. The provisions shall ensure that this Regulation is implemented in the light of the collection and transfer of institutions' contributions to the single fund. By means of one and the other law, the Contracting Party is committed to the establishment of a full financial framework within the EU, which the banking union is also a fundamental part, and the banking union we know is an important addition to the economic and monetary union. Namely, when we say what is the component of the banking union itself, then we can say that it has components such as the Single Supervisory Mechanism SSM, the Unique Renaissance Mechanism SRM and the European Deposit Insurance System that is so called. Edis. The Union has adopted a number of legal acts which are essential for the achievement of the internal market in the field of financial services and to strengthen the financial stability of the euro area and the Union as a whole. The Union has established the same supervisory bodies as the ESAs to which a set of tasks in the field of microprudential supervision has been assigned. They're for example. The European Banking Supervisory Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisory Authority and the European Securities and Markets Supervisory Authority, etc. Emma. The CNB will be the authority responsible for verifying the credibility of decisions of the Single Sanitary Committee on the payment of fines, which concern infringements of the provisions of this Regulation and of this Regulation 806/2014. The right to vote will also have a representative of the CNB at the plenary executive meetings of the Single Sanantia Committee. When it comes to the power of the DAB in accordance with the division of voting powers, their opinion will also be taken into account. So, in relation to the importance that the Member States have in this way, so in the Single Renaissance Fund, this way, the level of the target 1% of the amount of covered deposits, in the authorised credit institutions, will be over 60 billion euros, with the Republic of Croatia obliged to pay 185 million kuna over the next 3 years. DAB funds are invested in government bonds to be transferred to the Single Resilience Fund within a certain period. When we talk about the strength of our current DAB, then we must bear in mind that the Croatian fund is now at the level of about 600 million kuna. When we compare everything that is going on and changing the regulation itself, then it is very important that I base this Directive on restructuring and recovery of banks, which is so-called. The BRR Directive, that itself, that the funds to be paid to the bank in recovery, that this is how negative effects are controlled and that any recovery is actually financed, exclusively on the burden of banks. We, here, can say so far that small banks have been paying flats, while large banks have had a weighted risk, or it has been a recovery contribution that is, weighted by risk. What is still to be said that, when it comes to all these negative effects, we have to say that it is not true because in this way neither Croatia is losing its sovereignty nor changing relations in relation to the provision of savings and deposits, so it is still 100 euros for individual citizens, and it should also be said that this strengthens the total banking system and thus the risks that are potential, which can always occur in certain time periods, are shared together because the total fund that is foreseen, and so far has been created of 30 billion euros, is extremely large, and also, expected of 60 billion, is something that provides additional security for the entire euro area. Those who wish to be well-intentioned should then read, as well as the EU Commission Report for Croatia for 2020 and there can see what Croatia has achieved with a very critical approach in this period and can see exactly how much this stable time in which this government is working has actually contributed to macroeconomic and fiscal policy, and then it can be seen that real GDP has increased by 3% in 2019. It also mentions successes achieved in the labour market, unemployment, public debt reduction, private sector debt reduction, as well as related vulnerabilities related to the private sector, etc., etc. Here, therefore, I recommend to all those who believe that Croatia is going in the wrong direction, let them read and study and these documents that are very fresh, here from February 2020 and of course, the HDZ Club will support both of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187473	Thank you. We're going to the SDP Representatives' Club now, dear colleague Boris Lalovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187474	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. We are facing a united debate today on the Agreement on the transfer of contributions to the Single Resilience Fund and the Law on the Resuscitation of Credit Institutions. The Republic of Croatia's action plan to extend the European exchange rate mechanism and the banking union includes confirming the transfer and unification agreement of the single recovery fund and bringing it closer to the European Central Bank of the Republic of Croatia to become a participating Member State in the single recovery mechanism. Member States which have signed an intergovernmental agreement and are not yet part of the banking union will be subject to the rights and obligations arising from the agreement and when they become part of the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Single Sanitary Mechanism, as was introduced here, that is the first and second pillar. The EU Council Agreement has decided to establish rules on the transfer and unification of credit institutions' contributions with a view to ensuring the highest possible level of legal certainty. Contributions paid by credit institutions collected at national level will be transferred to a single recovery fund which initially consists of sections belonging to Member States. Sections will gradually unite over 8 years into a single recovery fund, which should eventually reach the target level of at least 1% of covered deposits in all authorised credit institutions, this is where 60 billion kuna was discussed. Then this bill gives authority to the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks in fact to transfer these funds to a single recovery fund. In addition, the obligation to pay an additional contribution if the financial resources available are not sufficient and additional contributions will be collected from those institutions and branches that all have the authorisation to work in the Republic of Croatia. The aim of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment firms is to amend the provisions of the applicable law relating to the powers of the national resolution authorities over credit institutions and groups of credit institutions for which participation in the single recovery mechanism is assumed by a direct responsibility now assumed by the single resolution committee in which it will actually play the greatest role in this single recovery committee, the role of the CNB with the opinion of the DAB. Something was said here whether we should go into that system or not. We also know that the entire banking union process came about after 2008 or the 2008 crisis, when the EU institutions actually said that more EU citizens would not be able to tackle the wrong policies of business banks. So that's the main objective of the initialisation of the banking union, not any particular conspiracy, but simply for the benefit of the citizens. So the banking union goes in favour of the citizens because it is said that they will no longer be paid and we are well aware in the Republic of Croatia in 30 years how much of the budget is paid to resuscitate the financial institutions. Now it's not like that anymore and the banking union says now you're going to pay for it, actually, you who are shareholders or owners of these banks. It was actually the first step in uniting the banking union. The second step was actually to even the capital market, because you can't have a loan in the banking union without having a single capital market and the possibility of trading and this third pillar, and this part of the third pillar is now being talked about is the deposit insurance system. It is important to note that EDIS, so-called The European Deposit Insurance System is the third pillar of the Banking Union established at the end of 2015 and has not progressed at the speed as expected. This is why today, within the EU institution, an even stronger integration of national institutions is stressed in order to strengthen the governance and resilience of the European monetary union to any shocks on financial markets and currently within the EU, national deposit insurance systems that provide up to 100,000 euros per client per bank are still functioning. So that's the benefit that we've actually accepted from the EU, I don't know when we changed it, 2014, 2015, 2016, when we raised that part of the secured savings and that went directly to the benefit of Croatian citizens. This must be said openly, so directly for the benefit of Croatian citizens it was because we approached this system uniquely that Croatian citizens will be more protected or now this level is in all European countries and 100 000 euros per client per bank. However, where the problem is now being created, and because the secretary of state is here and at the introduction said, there are some other problems within the EU, they said that within 8 years, this recovery fund will only live and require stronger integration of all the members and I don't think that it should ultimately be because we know that you said, somewhere around 1,300 financial institutions and we know that most of these financial institutions as in Croatia mean there are mostly 4 strongest, so probably in these other countries, although they are integrated, there are certain problems. Why doesn't it go at such speed but it's still actually a helmet and it says that only 8 years will be established, just like we just said, that DAB's money will be paid into this unique recovery fund, it will last, it will be on our section, DAB will remain as the opening secretary of state said, in the status as it is now, it will also have its functions that it performs, and only in... in some future you'll get to that level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague Peric said that somewhere around 600 million kuna, DAB, is that there are insurances, if you take savings in Croatia to be around 200 billion kuna, 600 million from 200 billion, that's 0.2 something, or 0.3%. And the EU goes to 1%. which means that this goes in favour of Croatia if we go in this context that we are now less secure than when we join a single recovery fund. So this goes for the benefit of Croatian citizens, this goes for the benefit of Croatian financial systems, not financial systems, but Croatian economies, and we know that some in the past, some banks when they failed, as they rocked not only Croatian citizens who were partially insured but also all other institutions. So it should be said that this, these documents that we bring today, are in favour of Croatian citizens and that in this context, it is necessary to observe. On the other hand, why is there no such thing as still a unique, possibility of ensuring deposit, or centralizing it? It is precisely because the risks of these banks within the EU themselves have different portfolios and that is what the EU is now trying to identify that we have a diversification of the bank portfolio invested in various government bonds because it is not the same when you have banks that invest certain funds, if they have invested in German bonds, some that have Greek bonds, some that have Spanish, and we know what happened on the EU market 5 years ago. The value of bond alone, the valuation of bonds, and then they said, if you have invested in Greek bonds, it's worth nothing to you, the bank had to invest additional capital for it, and those that were invested, for example, in German bonds, they didn't have that extra capital. And then what's going on? This deposit insurance problem is coming up. If you go to this Unique Renaissance Mechanism, then again on the other hand, the Germans will say, well, wait a minute, so we won't pay any Greek debts again, those who have invested in Greek bonds, who have some poorer portfolio, so they won't again, some who ensure that some of the stability and large differences are still at EU level, and this will show you according to the share of non-income loans, which is a key factor and, in fact, at EU level, it is discussed. How to place in that part some sort of.../incomprehensible/... so some kind of framework because it actually comes from the other side, how much will be paid when there's insurance damage or deposit. Well, look at the data now, so let's see how it's not easy to set up this unique recovery mechanism at EU level. Greece in its banks, so-called The MPLs, which we always like to say here, mean these are non-income loans, meaning non-returnable loans, which do not return, which have problems in return, in Greek banks, meaning this is a report according to the 3rd quarter of 2018 by the EU Commission to be able to establish, in the end, which is why it put that deadline until 2018 MPL at the level of Greece 43.5%. Almost half the loan is not returned to Greece. Then when we talk about Cyprus, you have 21.8%, then when we speak in Portugal, 11.3% of the MPLs, Italy 9.5%. And then you have, on the other hand, countries like Finland, you have 1.1, Sweden, 1.2, Slovenia 6.9, Croatia somewhere around 7.8 levels of these MPLs and then you see at the level of European, you have a different structure of bank portfolios and their bad placements, and these actually deposits ultimately, if these banks are to fail, you should ensure these bad policies of these banks and now from this whole, and deposit insurance schemes, we see that this is a very difficult and long-term process. For example. No matter what Croatia has at 7.8% of these MPLs where poor placements are included, according to companies and citizens, Croatia has the highest share, for example. the coverage of these placements with those reservations. So somehow the most stable financial system, while some other countries are at 35%, e.g. Croatia is 75% of the coverage of these plasmas which are bad and now only when you see the structure of banking, banking balances within the EU, then you come up with this problem how difficult it is and why the EU Commission said that only after 8 years will the Single Rehabilitation Mechanism work because when they start, if any shock occurs, and we saw only the impact of this coronary virus on the Croatian capital market. It's crazy. It's crazy. What is happening in Croatia now is insanely related to the Croatian capital market. They sank in one day 5%. 5% went down, God forbid it spread further, so the panic of bad news is much faster than the panic of the virus. And now, on financial shocks, and you see how financial shocks can happen in Croatia, which has nothing to do with the capital market, it doesn't matter what happens to Croatia on the capital market, how it can make a chain reaction, how it can be a chain reaction to both financial institutions and businesses, and that's why it's good because Croatia is too small to be isolated. It's too small and that's why it's good to be in these mechanisms. This is good for Croatia. This doesn't need to scare people into entering, to lose some part of our sovereignty. So we, this is good for which reason, because we're too little of our capital, and today we said that we only have 600 million, compared to 200 billion, to make any happen to us, we couldn't pay it. If we are part of a unique mechanism, if we are part of it, you can see how the citizens are connected, that someone who comes from China, from Italy, infects Croatia. Imagine what it's like, how capital goes. He goes 10 or 100 times faster than the citizens go. And you just can't.../incomprehensible/... put yourself, especially in the capital market, you can't put any wires on the border and therefore there's a system of mechanisms that still has great recommendations within the EU, believe me, much more than we have here in Croatia. Because it is not easy to tell the Germans that they will be able to cover, they will have to cover if banks in Greece are bad, that they will have to cover bad bank placements in Greece from the Single Sanantia Fund. It is not easy to implement in the German parliament or in the French Parliament, and their salaries are at 2%. Because, since we are a small economy, integrated, we use the EU's welfare, we think it should be openly said that these are some positive, that 100,000 euros in favour of Croatian citizens are guaranteed, that this has actually been brought into this particular part of the directive, which we have approached, that part of what the banks are ultimately going to do will no longer go to the burden of Croatian citizens, but on the burden of banks, that they will have to further separate into these funds, that the Croatian economy will be more resistant to such shocks as we had the other day, which we simply cannot explain. We can't explain how it happened to us that we dropped Crobex who, by the way, we have a bad financial market integrated, that it happened to us, the American stock exchanges are growing, other markets are growing, ours is falling 5%. You see how small an economy we are, how sensitive an economy we are, how sensitive we are to tourism and our integration in this work, we are a statistical error at EU level, and we are bringing benefits to EU membership here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187475	This is what we've come to the end of the club debate, now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first one was to speak to counterpart Gordan Maras, however he is gone, so he loses his right to speak on this point in general and afterwards goes to respected counterpart Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187476	Thank you. Dear citizens, you can see by the number of reported opposition in the Croatian Parliament when it comes to key issues, there is no. Here we heard even earlier on of my surprise and representative of the SDP who are considered the largest opposition in the Parliament, that they have the same view on this matter as the HDZ coalition group, the exact same. And that's kind of interesting. That's actually saying, it confirms what I've been saying for several years, that these two parties should have been a big coalition for a long time, because when it comes to arguing about what kind of doll burns for a Fasnik, how the plates are written or divided by partisans, etc., then it's a fertile ground, then a large number of MPs gather here, but when the debate on key issues of the Croatian economy, state and people such as the issue of the situation in the EU, such as the issue of introducing the euro or not, that is, when you see it at all, there is no discussion, then there is no conversation, why? Because these ruling teams that have led Croatia so far, they have simply executed, the mere executioners of officials from Brussels and Frankfurt. You see, that's our reality and what's happening but if you didn't stay at the level of what someone says here's saying some ideological phrases, I'm going to speak below the meaning of this time of yours only in arguments. Visite, the level of concentration of banks in the EU has become intolerable, the largest 4.5 banks generally hold 70 to 80%, 65 to 80% of the total banking market. In Croatia, 5 major banks hold 81% of the total assets of the banking system, 90% of banks in Croatia are owned by foreign banks. We have heard here technical presentations that come down to the conviction of what is written in the proposal of this law without, there has been no political approach to how this will affect the Croatian economy, the position of Croatian citizens and the stability of the Croatian state and the people. So there's no such approach but simply the technical details that we know can be read by anyone. So we need to reduce concentration in Croatian banking. Furthermore, the party's position to change Croatia and we will do so is that in the next few years, at least 50% of banks in Croatia will have to be domestically owned, this has been learned by this example, which means having to lose banks, Hungary, Poland, they also had 80, 90% of banks in foreign ownership, now they have returned the share of domestic ownership, which is private, which is the state at 50% and more. Furthermore, it is not said here that supervisory will be conducted towards the largest banks, somewhere towards those who have 30 billion euros in balance and above, in Croatia because the small country is smaller and what will happen to small banks? Small banks have been systematically destroyed in Croatia for 15 years. I repeat what I just said, you are pushing Croatia into the banking union and the ERM II exchange mechanism right because it is a prerequisite for rapid introduction, to introduce the euro as soon as possible and I repeat, we are not ready to introduce the euro, do not deceive Croatian citizens and the public, I am telling you as a politician and as an economic expert, why, because Croatia has fundamental imbalances in the economy for years. What's a fundamental imbalance? That means when you have a continuous deficit in the foreign trade balance. And for the past 10 years, Croatia has recorded 700 billion kuna deficits cumulatively in trade with the world in international exchange. 700 billion kuna, so every year on average 70 billion kuna. It is not true when the prime minister speaks with his ministers that you have reduced the public debt, gentlemen, you have taken over the state when it was in charge of 284 billion kuna, the public debt, is now 298 billion, and you have not added 9 billion debts to it in health, you have not added at least 10, 12 billion debts to companies owned by local administrations such as the Zagreb Holding. It is not true that you have reduced the external debt, you have not reduced it by the euro, you have taken over it when it was 40 billion euros, the external debt of Croatia, and now it is 43 billion euros, so you have increased it by 3 billion. Therefore, we are in fundamental imbalances and anyone who is smart in the EU will reject us. Despite the incredible and thoughtless intentions to do it quickly. I know that for a number of you the issue of introducing the euro is a technical question, why, because obviously by the greatest work, I know that you are not economists, so you don't understand enough is from the citizens' position this really technical question, however, from the position of the economy where exchange rate policy is extremely important, it is a key issue. How did you see that? Well, dear citizens, according to the Institute's results of the EU's joint unions, Croatia has proved to be among the five countries where real wages have fallen the most in the last 10 years, real purchasing power, it has fallen by 5% in Croatia. Well, it means despite the impression that wages are growing, but real purchasing power is down 5%, why? Because Croatia has spent 25 years conducting a policy of unrealistic exchange rate, fixed exchange rate, and since this course cannot help it damage exports, then the only way to increase competitiveness is for entrepreneurs to cut salaries to their workers. It's called internal devaluation. Are you ready for that? And I am ordering you from this place, the quick introduction of the EUR, will unthinkably lead to price increases, so we will have Croatian salaries and European prices. Are you ready for that? So think carefully. Well, of course those here who sit and others who, they don't care, they have high wages, you can bring in whatever currency you want, they don't care, but dear citizens you or we're not in the same position. If things don't go right, we're really going to start a referendum on the EUR because this is an unsatisfactory policy. We see that the idea of the EU is definitely threatened, that it is not realized in terms of the union of sovereign peoples and states, but this has become a union of sovereign capital and financial oligarchy that will really ruin this otherwise one human and one good, good idea. However, a far greater problem than this issue of ensuring the deposit of bank recovery methods in the banking union is the credit policy of banks. It is very problematic in Croatia, not to say fatal. Why? Because Croatian banks finance them, lend the highest population. So total loans to the population are 60%, and total loans to the business sector are barely 40%. So in translation, if you finance more consumption than production then you drink the branch on which you sit. So last year, all the banks to agriculture, all those who work in agriculture, approved barely $5.5 billion. Industry is becoming less and less funded, more and more financed tourism, trade, so the banking system has changed Croatia's economic structure thoroughly over the past 15-20 years. These are the questions we need to talk about and the way we need to talk. Of course, you will not hear it here from two parties that have led Croatia so far, they will praise this. Why? Because they see how many Croatian economies have been destroyed and now they want to transfer responsibility to Brussels, Frankfurt or elsewhere in the EU. That's why we, who are the real opposition and the people who have knowledge, are obliged to answer these questions and see where things are going. After all, if the system works properly, we are a member of the EU, why has the EU allowed money laundering in Croatia in Zagreb Bank? The question of which banks he still washed himself in without knowing. I call on the CNB to announce urgently, who is, when and how much money they make at Zagreb Bank. Let him publish the most important findings from the findings, not why he's hiding them, declares he can't because of the courts, because of this, because of that. You see, I told the judiciary that the CNB is the second largest destabiliser of Croatian economy and society. Dear citizens, we can settle this together in the elections, I urge you to finally remove those who are ruining Croatia from the scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187477	We have a replica. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187478	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Lovrinović, therefore you rightly wonder how the debate about the introduction of the EUR was left behind, but it is clear now and I disagree with you, there is no debate about the introduction of the EUR, the EUR will be introduced, in this direction it is going and even the representatives of the government say that it is, it is clear that Minister Maric's accession contract defined that Croatia will introduce the EURo. Now, you are rightly wondering what this means for the Croatian economy, for Croatian citizens. If GDP is growing then the most benefits of it are the richest ones, if GDP starts to fall the most, they feel the poorest. And that's the fear of actually introducing the EUR. It's not a fear if things get any better, if the GDP grows, the money will be, the bank will give money, but if it goes wrong, the banks are centralized, everything will come together into one, let's say this consortium, and they won't give more money to those who need it to develop the economy, and there will be a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187479	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187480	Thank you, colleague Zhagar, for asking, you have found the key thing that I agree with is that the EU is a set of heterogeneous countries of economies where we have the strongest economies and the weakest. So that's why I'm talking all the time and we're asking for it to be a matter of common sense, it's not a problem when it's a good situation, but when there's an external shock, the economic and financial crisis will suffer the poorest ones most. Well, that's what we saw in the example of Greece when they didn't want to help her, and what they helped her do was they knocked her even more, so they pushed her live, live mud. Greece, only a dear God can help Greece. They re-enlarged the public debt from 170 to 183%, so there's no solution there. That's why it's important to go back to a healthy logic and it's not true that we have to introduce the EURo, we signed that we should, but it doesn't say exactly when. In 5, 10, 20, 50 years, so are other countries and they are waiting, but they do not want to come out like the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, Romania etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187481	This is what we've come to the end of the debate, I'm locking it up, and we'll vote when the conditions come to an end. Final proposal of the Law on the validation of the transfer and unification of contributions to the single recovery funds, second reading, P.Z. number 842. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 100 for, 6 abstentions and 3 against the Law on the Confirmation of Transfer Agreements and Unite of Contributions to the Single Rehabilitation Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187513	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, since 2015, a new Police Act on the Law has been passed, it is foreseen that there is this type of committee that monitors and assesses, analyses complaints in the work of the MUP. Since 2015 and practically to this day, so five years since the passed law, we haven't had that commission. It could not be formed despite the fact that on several occasions a public call was called, but the interest in it was not simply because most people who would have applied did not have the basis to do so, that someone who came from Osijek or Vukovar or Pula or Rijeka alone bear their own travel expenses for coming to the session, spent their time and their day and until 2019 when the amendment and the addition of the law were made then the conditions to ensure compensation for the members of these committees. So, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the body of this Parliament, which calls for a public call for applications and which decides which of the candidates and candidates meet in the highest and best degree the conditions for membership in this committee. He's been doing it since the 10th month of last year, so here we are. So, on the basis of a public call, 26 candidates and candidates have applied. Of those 26 candidates and candidates, 11 met the conditions. In what way? Either in the sense that they submitted complete applications in accordance with the rules prescribed in the public call or that those applications were submitted on time. And the third condition prescribed by law, which is that persons are not punishment or criminal proceedings against them. That persons were not punished, the professional services of the board were obliged to check with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice provided information on whether any of the candidates or candidates had been punished either criminally or criminally. The candidates and candidates themselves were obliged to provide confirmation that they were not subject to criminal proceedings, not only criminal cases but also criminal or any other type of law provided for in the procedure. In its 37rd session of 23 January 2019, the Committee proposed by a unanimous decision to this Chamber that Dr. Dr. Teo Giljević, Dubravka Grogdanović, Milan Jurković, Tonči Majica, doc. Aleksandar Marshallski, Nenad Rukavina, Marijan Šuperina, Evelyn Tonkovic, Tibor Varga are the candidates and candidates that this Parliament should accept as the first composition of the commission to follow the work of complaints under the Law on Police work in the MUP. We believe that this is extremely important that after five years, this type of decision is made to appoint this committee and that all those who have filed complaints, all those who have had objections to work in the MUP, have an address which will analyse these complaints and who will then inform the Committee on Human Rights, the Assembly, in accordance with their powers, while, of course, that commission communicates with the relevant services of the MUP itself in order to identify the complaints as justifiable removals of the reasons for which individuals or members of individual groups present these complaints. Therefore, one body of civil and professional supervision over possible violations of the legality or rights of those working in the MUP is extremely important for this Assembly, extremely important for the functioning of this segment of government in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I invite you colleagues and colleagues to adopt this proposal after the debate on the composition of the committee or commission so that it can finally start working after five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187514	We have two replicas, a respected colleague, Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187515	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pupovac. It is indeed about the people you propose and what committee proposes with a serious resume and with a life and professional integrity. However, according to Art. 5. The law on police, which mainly defines the work of the commission, seems to me that their role is exhausting solely in sending a kind of ethical appeal, that in the end the whole appeal and decision procedure is justified or not justified, remains in the hands of the police, we create a double circle, demonstrate a kind of ethnicity and put the commission on the body that makes the appeals and directs them to the relevant parliamentary committee and the Parliament, seems to me that the work of the commission should be strengthened.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187516	Thank you. You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187517	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Vučetić, I think your concern about the powers of this committee has been justified but this committee has not had the opportunity to change that type more significantly, or that part of the law, this article, but this committee will certainly be committed to the findings of this committee and will not allow the commission to only be able to communicate with the ministry and to work with the ministry, but it will take it as part of its important, essential, substance-based obligations, because this is one of the key powers that this committee has, the Committee for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and we care for the commission to function.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187518	Second replica, Comrade Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187519	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Pupovac, I would like to refer this replica to you first and foremost as colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, not as chairman of the board. Namely, you mentioned the key year 2015, the amendment of the law, so until then, it was intended to set up a commission by police administrations, but it was lagging behind, you cited one of the reasons why it was safe now in these changes to allow the commission to be formed, it was a fee to the members, I think it was also an obstacle to working in certain police administrations because a very small number of candidates appeared and this is the only way that civil society controls police work and I am interested in purely here your opinion, can in the future expect first and the proposal of here and the competent committee, that nevertheless the commissions at the levels of the county, so police administrations would be a direct step of citizens with police actions not only in terms of their supervision but also co-operation with police officers?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187520	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187521	Dear counterpart Žagar, the Committee on Human Rights will carefully analyse reports on the work of this commission and, if established, this commission, although first, although it is formed after several attempts, has a good composition, in our opinion, a good composition regarding the balance between experts, experts, members of the academic community in our country and at the same time people who are professionals, who are either or are still part of the police system and people who are aware of how the state system and state apparatus functions in general. And we think it's a good thing and we're going to analyze whether or not it's necessary to do what you're talking about and we're going to initiate such a procedure if it's established that it's necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187522	Thank you. Now we'll move on to the debate, first of all, the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Drazen Srpak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187523	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs. The appointment of members of the Board of Appeals in the MUP is of great importance for the proper functioning of the system. Probably given the hard work done by police officers, we should even form a committee to praise those same ones today when we are in times that are very complicated and because of refugees and now because of the corona of the virus where direct people are exposed to the border crossing at which I have personally worked in various threats for years. Police law, more specifically. The 5th is determined that the Commission for the Resolution of complaints for police work makes up 9 representatives of citizens who are appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament to whom the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities proposes. On the basis of the above mentioned article of the law, members of the commission are selected on the basis of a public call, on the basis of a proposal from civil society organisations, professional public organisations and NGOs or have made a personal call. For the members of the commission to be appointed at the time of 4 years with the possibility of re-nomination, a provision shall be laid down. 5th d. Police Act. That article shall not be designated as a member of the commission as a person who is not a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, who is a member of a political party who has been convicted or prosecuted for a criminal offence being prosecuted by official duty, who has been convicted or is being prosecuted for a violation of the nature of violence or for a serious offence for which the sentence of prison is prescribed. At the 34th session, as the chairman of that committee, Mr Pupovac, for human rights and the rights of national minorities, the text of a public invitation for the appointment of members of the Committee for Labour under complaints in the MUP was established. It is also published in the National papers and on the Croatian Parliament pages in October 2019. 26 applications were received on a public call, an analysis of all the applications received was carried out by a working group established by the conclusion of the committee and found that nine candidates for members of the Board of Appeals were proposed from 26, 11 and 9 of the Board of Appeals in the MUP. At the 37rd session held on 23 January, following the debate, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously with 9 votes "for" set out a proposal for a decision to appoint those members to work on complaints in the MUP. I will further determine who the proposed members are and with what references, these are mostly people with law school, with experience in the MUP, in the Croatian military, in civil society, means doc. dr.sc. Teo Giljević, Dubravka Grogdanović, Milan Jurković, Tonči Majica, doc.dr.sc. Alexander Marshallski, Nenad Rukavina, Marijan Šuperina, Evelyn Tonkovic and Tibor Varga, it is clear that it is about candidates who can respond with their education and experience to the role of protecting citizens, as well as police officers, because they are too often complaints and unfounded and thus they can resolve possible disputes in their conduct. The HDZ Club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187524	Now it's Mr. Ranko Ostojic's turn in front of the SDP's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187525	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. It is extremely important that we finally take a step towards the appointment of members of the Committee for Labour under the complaints of the MUP. I would also like to point out that this is not the only body that oversees police work and the intentions that were related to bodies that would oversee police work even in police administrations, so this has changed in legal solutions, it was intended that civil society that had its own structure, interest, associations, etc., is even funded among other things in this segment and for that part of the job that expected their interest should be among other things to participate in both the work and the police to oversee the work of the police. Obviously that this intention has not passed, here you can see in the rest of the data after the amendment of the law that has arrived 26 applications, 11 that there have been valid of it 9 people are proposed, it's just saying that there's no way that you can expect that possibly all those civil society associations that mention even have projects or are co-financed from state, municipal or similar funds might be able to do so without a budget burden. However, this intention is clearly being taken out today as a possibility that we haven’t had a commission for a long time. And in the experience of the Civil Surveillance Council, I would say that it has been continuous, and now I will say that the obstruction among other things is that there are no bodies that could benefit all those citizens who want to make an appeal, a notion and that then that body can determine whether something is justified or not. As for the commission defined by the Police Law on the resolution of complaints on the work of police officers, there is always the possibility that there is additional authority to provide them with the possibility that they can do more. I also have to express my skepticism that there may be a situation in which certain documents will be inaccessible. Here's to one simple thing, among other things, that's that in the MUP unless you have a certificate or a security check, etc. You can't go in, no matter what you're parliamentary surveillance, you won't be able to get some data, and that's one area that should be regulated. A security check shall be carried out in the Civil Surveillance Council after the appointment, and such a thorough security check shall be carried out for all members and may only then be able to access all classified documents and thus have a stronger power or in better conditions that they may actually verify certain concepts or what the citizens are complaining about. As for the people and the Committee on Human Rights, I must also point out that, regardless of what the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is doing, both in our Rules of Procedure and even in this part of jurisdiction, this was a solution that was made precisely with a view to strengthening civilian control. Namely, there are a number of systems that control the work of police officers and one is where the police control themselves, these are departments within the police administrations that exist, which determine the legality of the work of police officers. Second responsibility of the leader within the police administrations who must justify the use of the primary means of coercion in such actions. The third part is, of course, the Board of Appeals, but I must also say, the Ministerial Authority, which is that, based on internal control, it can check certain concepts and what citizens believe is a violation of their right. The further part is, of course, parliamentary oversight through the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which, unlike all other bodies, has the right to see all documents. This is a situation where parliamentary supervision and can be carried out, among other things, we will soon have direct supervision that will take place in Croatia by virtue of the decision of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. All of this together gives one on paper quite a good picture, but there have been many cases where we were able to convince ourselves that citizens are expressing dissatisfaction, and I consider it the most important thing of all this, of course, and the goals are building trust in the institutions of the state. The Ministry of Police and the Police Department must first of all be interested in having as much quality surveillance as possible, it's helping them, not some supervisory supervisor who's going to cause them a problem. That is why I think it is very important that we understand that even Croatia is at this moment the Presidency, which is controlled by Europol, means European police, an agency formed by the European Commission and which exists in the EU, so it is quite logical that we do not make it more difficult and that this civil part of the action, or civil part, should be really done to resolve complaints. I would only use one case we had for journalist Klancir as a good example of how important it is that in public something that becomes an extremely important topic be solved precisely by the basis of the Board of Appeals which will in some way be leveraged by the MPs in order to get an insight into whether or not she is hurt. Everyone has their own way of looking, but I claim in the end that it is very important that the repressive system has its own quality control and that it is in the interest of the same system because it restores security and trust. I'd like to mention one more important thing, and that's a matter of protecting human rights. At this very moment when we have a lot of newspaper articles, information and everything else that comes, these are exactly the ways in which complaints can be checked or whether there is an objection in place or not. Therefore, we support, regardless of the possibilities of the committee itself, we support the formation of committees to work on complaints, and I believe that this will remove many situations that have been absolutely uncovered so far. And I'm going to say one more thing, the Croatian police in the situation, regardless of what we've changed the law that provided the possibility of a lot of things being uncovered, specifically speaking about phone numbers lists, that the issue of traps, traps or possible legal monitoring only by the order of the director of the Croatian police is no longer an option, because it was, of course, a trap and the possibility of it being misused. Today it is also necessary, especially in a situation that does not implement the provision, a regulation regarding telephone numbers, you must know that in Croatia there is still no functioning probably pressure by large teleoperators who do not change their attitude and today you can still buy the prepaid card as you are willing at any kiosk or shop, I wonder how still on the street you do not sell. Of course, this is not possible in some other countries, and the reasons are very simple, and it is not a matter of control and the big brownie, but the question is that in Italy you can buy a phone card without any prepaid problems, but you have to know who bought it and who it is. This is how you get into a situation where tens of thousands of phone numbers are carried out by the OTC based on requests from the Croatian police, which is logical, trying to find links and contacts of those who deal with crime, who, of course, have this advantage that the state did not actually enable them to implement, which is that prepaid cards provide their simple communication which is hard to catch and which is hard to find. So you read very often in the paper that 40 phones or prepaids have been found, or I have no idea of similar situations, that's just saying that this is another one of the options where we're forgetting to enforce the law and thinking that this freedom went the wrong way. And I think the question of buying prepaids without any problem any of us give their ID card and knowing who bought it would be one equally significant and good step in the process that would make it easier to work and the police, and it would be much simpler to actually control it. Once again, as far as the Board of Appeals is concerned, regardless of what happened last year, I believe that this is the beginning of further civil control building, while of course asking that the issue of parliamentary control and all others be at the strongest level. I repeat, it is in the interest of exactly the repressive system, or specifically the police, which strengthens security and trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187526	Now it's individual debates. The first is Mr. Stevo Culey, he's gone, he's losing his right. The other is Mr. Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right. The third is Mr. Tomislav Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187527	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would just like to say a few sentences regarding this important commission whose composition is proposed by this decision on the basis of a proposal from the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I am, first of all, saying that, first of all, I will support this decision because I think it is about people who have both professional and any other capacity to do this job that the Croatian Parliament is giving them. Another thing I would like to say is that in the Republic of Croatia, police are carrying out a significant task and that police actions in accordance with their powers must be extremely, extremely controlled and civil surveillance is important in this regard. We actually have today's proposal that we have a third variant that has spread here since 2012. In 2011, it was the wrong assessment of the burden of members of the commission and the scope of the tasks they had so that they could not actually be seen that they could not do so much, so much work had been done and the changes were later reduced so that the establishment of commissions by police administrations was foreseen, which then further complicated the matter because it could not simply name such a number of commissions. And now one solution has finally been found by the appointment of a 9-member central commission, which should certainly be welcomed. 9 people who will not only oversee police work, but above all in accordance with what the police have in their name, which says on their official vehicles security and trust that will allow their work to have first confidence in police work. Because his colleague Ostojić rightly now mentioned media inscriptions in the debate, and indeed in certain cases police conduct in public, it is the impression that police work is not sufficiently supervised and that police officers are working according to their intentions, not what the law prescribes. And just like this way of monitoring and cooperating with the police through this commission will be extremely good if, of course, the commission does its job because we must not forget that police work is all just not a simple job. In this sense, I once again emphasise the work of this committee, but what I am now concerned about at this point, and it is not clear to us until the end that this commission or how that power will act more actively when it determines certain violations of police conduct, hence complaints from citizens where their human rights have been violated, in which way it will be possible to include themselves in order to sanction those who have done so, but more importantly to prevent or prevent further such mistreatment by the police whose actions are at risk of human rights. I think it is a key task of the commission, and if we put in place both the role and the task of this commission, then we are on our way to ensure that all in the Republic of Croatia are concerned about the key issue, and that is the security of citizens and the protection of human rights, human rights as well as police officers in the MUP, as well as those of the citizens to which the police are acting. And finally to conclude, I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187528	Mr. Ostojic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187529	Dear colleague Sagar. One monopoly of physical coercion implies, among other things, that police are legally applying certain means of coercion. One of the important things that you pointed out in that part is that you should defend a police officer who does his job under the law and according to all the regulations and rules that were made. I would mention one of the tools that was thrown out among other things, which would be very effective and could help police officers, which were cameras. All modern police have cameras, and that's actually how a police officer protects himself from doing his job. The pilot project started, did, showed excellent results, and I really don't know, and I don't want to speculate on why it's gone, and the cop can't be protected because the camera's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187530	Mr. Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187531	Thank you. Dear colleague Ostojić. So I agree with you that this is crucial because police conduct is carried out under clear rules, clear protocols, but in practice in life it is so always, there are certain disorders, there are unforeseen circumstances and under these unforeseen circumstances a policeman can violate his powers. And in this I see the role of this commission not only to punish such a policeman but to help the protocols change, to change the actions of the police, to be meaningful because ultimately and circumstances in society change. You mentioned technologies, new forms and criminal acts appeared, so that the police must ultimately have both partners in civil society and vice versa that we are all fighting crime together and increasing the security of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187532	Let's move on with the debates, Mr. Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187533	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This proposal is good, this proposal is necessary and this proposal is strange. Why is it good and why it is necessary, it does not need to be stressed, and why it is strange to be troubled. He's just weird because the members of this committee don't have almost any authority. I consider it based on the legal provisions of the article. 5. The law of the police that we members of this committee designed only their aging, nothing else, and we have certain periods of their aging. First, within 30 days when a person has learned of an irregularity, he refers to the objection and within 30 days, the head of the design unit at the MUP responds to the complaint. And the applicant has for the next 15 days to appeal to internal control which again has 30 days of being able to respond to this complaint and of 15 again to refer the complaint to this commission. So, an extremely long period so that nothing would eventually happen but what I did in the replicator and said was an appeal. The commission will appeal to us. The happy circumstance is that it's a MUP and it's such a wide system that it's the most difficult to sow corruption in it. Corruption operations in the MUP have been elitised and they are not such that they can fully affect the MUP and all officers working in the police system. So as far as police treatment is concerned, we can say with great confidence that it is an act that is not largely corrupt. However, what raises particular interest, which is suspected of corruption at the very top of the MUP, or officials, and officials working in the system. Now let's imagine a hypothetical situation that the deputy chief police director is driving in a populated town of 160 km/h that is a hypothetical situation if no normal state could happen. That the Chief Director of the Police doesn't know that his deputy undercover is the secret mission, is clearly such a level of secrecy that the order to carry out the undercover mission came directly from the depths of the soul of the deputy chief police director. When his soul gave the order to carry out a secret mission at 160 km/h, it is clear that the soul feels best in a familiar environment, so the soul placed the body in a personal car, not in the official vehicle of the MUP. The result of all this is that a misdemeanor court in this hypothetical situation in which a state in which such a hypothetical situation took place is not a state but a half state, that the criminal court releases the deputy chief director of police because he was undercover, and secrecy, as I have already said, stems from the depths and secrets of his soul. This hypothetical situation would tell us about one thing, which is that we need to check and someone should check why the deputy chief director of the police is, for example, accused of a felony, not a criminal offense of an adjudicated driving. Why would the Minister of the Interior, if we were to develop this hypothetical situation, say or say that the Deputy Chief Director of Police can return to the post of Deputy Chief Director of Police once he has been released? And we know thanks to his driving skills that he will return very soon because he mastered that skill at least driving around the inhabited place. And now there's a question that this commission or someone else should resolve, and that is, is the deputy director, the chief police director, released so that he could be a deputy and continue or has to be released because he's a deputy and what must be the deputy? In one case and another, it's about corrupt will. We do not oppose the corrupt will at the level of the appeal and at the level of the commissions that we have designed age in the system or in the MUP. We are opposed to laws, institutions and common sense to corrupt will. We must not allow this commission or any similar committees to be just a substitute and it is a comforting substitute or a comforting reward for our weakness. Our weakness needs to be turned into strength, and strength comes from common sense. This hypothetical case is unfortunately not hypothetical, it is real and it happened in the area of the county where I reside, in Zadar County. This case is so illogical that not to defy common sense, not to defy morality, but to defy the existence of a state, a country in which it is possible to play this way with bodies, which can in this way play with citizens, with the certainty of citizens and with common sense, is not a state and a system that protects such a system is not a system that protects citizens but is a system that exposes citizens. To the board of honor, to the members of the committee, I wish them every honor and happy time in the planned age to be implemented in this term, and to the committee responsible for this meeting, I want the competent working body to find a way to protect this commission from being just a comforting reward for irregularities and emerging corruption in the elitised areas, the elite bodies that should take care of the public security with which the state is identified. This kind of case is destroying the state, not marriages, not some kind of body that stems from the future or the past system, this is destroying the state, the state is collapsed and it's downed at a speed of 160 km/h in a populated place, in a secret that wasn't a secret and a secret that doesn't belong to the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187534	Thank you, too. We have three replicas and one word search. We'll do the replicas first, Mr. Ostojić's first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187535	Dear colleague Vučetic, you are absolutely right, that if you do not want to solve the problem then you form a commission, it is well known. However, there is still one step that has been taken here, which is that there is also a body that has the right, even if it was an appeal or a established circumstance can continue to work, it is, in particular, the Committee on Internal Policy or the Committee on Human Rights, and this will eventually be seen. The second thing that I think is very important, you've noticed well that the question of trust is being built among other things and with cases like this, unfortunately, that come out in public. I must say, as you do, it's not a third thing clear to me, if it's a secret mission, why are police officers punished if they were protecting your secret mission from Zadar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187536	Mr. Vučetic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187537	Here, I thank the former Minister of the Interior for confirming what I said in the debate and for confirming what common sense says to the public. It is an extraordinary suspicion and a high degree of suspicion that something was done contrary to the rules and to the law. This appeal and commission that will appeal and if we have the working bodies of HS that will realize that this appeal should result in a change of law, and that the law is the one that changes practice in a way that is consistent with the law, then all this makes sense, if we do not then live the sense of breaking the law and the absence of common sense in public space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187538	Mr. Vlaovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187539	Thank you. Comrade Vučetic, you said that the establishment of this commission is good and necessary, which I agree with because it is necessary to have civil oversight of the work of the state bodies, especially the Ministry or employees of the MUP, but also strange because we are afraid at all of what the function of this commission is, I wish them successful work but if they do not have any more important and possible sanctions against those perpetrators of some illegal activities within the system, then they will be aware of the basic commission to cloud and resolve the problem. We also have a parliamentary body, a Board of Appeals and Appeals that often doesn't get from the competent state authorities and nothing happens, I'm afraid it will be in this case as well. I want to congratulate all state bodies of the MUP and police officers who do their job, officers need salaries, techniques and should be allowed to report and their competent authorities, not to be punished as in this case as you said, then there is no trust in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187540	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187541	Thank you. This commission shall act in that it shall inform the competent parliamentary working authorities of the actions and the objections it has received in its report. However, the element remains that the MP personnel are primarily appointed by the parliamentary majority. Indirectly or directly, we can be fooled in different ways and ultimately the report accepts or does not accept the parliamentary majority. It is a good thing I see in this the possibility of sensitizing the public through reports, through parliamentary debates and debates on parliamentary working bodies and finally seeing the face of the Republic of Croatia. The face of the Republic of Croatia is not what we construct in the debates, but what we see on the streets. In a particular case, we saw a rabid driver on the streets.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187542	Mr. Sagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187543	Thank you. Dear colleague Vučetić, you said well. In order for this commission to carry out its task well, at least three conditions must be met, so there must be persons outside the police, hierarchy, above all, an adequately funded commission and must have clear powers to carry out the procedures under their jurisdiction and to be able to issue binding instructions. We've met these three demands and two partially because actually this third one I don't know if we've met at all what you've pointed out. Police official vehicles say "safety and trust", a man who drove 160km/h, betrayed one and the other, and respected the principle of security, and caused great mistrust by the citizens, and by later explaining it by means of secrecy, the court itself violated both security and trust, and then raised questions about whether this commission could restore the security and trust of citizens to the police, and then the police against the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187544	Thank you very much. Mr. Vuccitic, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187545	Dear colleague, trust returns only by fear. There are two levels of fear, one is an unacceptable fear, which is when citizens are afraid of powerful people and it's called corruption and violation of the law. The second level that's acceptable is the level of fear when law breakers are afraid of someone. I would like all the law breakers within the MUP to be afraid of the work of this committee, not to be an ethical body, because those who violate the laws have no ethics but to fear the consequences that this commission's work can produce and these consequences are the safety and trust of citizens and fear of breaking laws within a system or corrupt persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187546	Thank you very much, Mr. Pupovac asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187547	Mr. Vice President, I would like to ask you for a break of 10 minutes to consult the Committee's expert services on comments made and observations so far in the debate on this proposal of the composition of the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187548	11:45, we're moving on, thank you. It's 11:00.34. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.45 HOURS]] 11:45, let's get on with the work. No, we've got a few, yeah, we've done it before, yeah. Now we've got Mr. Butt that's gonna have an individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187550	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, we still have, here, after a long time, a proposal from the Board of Appeals at the MUP. In my opinion, the legality and actions of police officers is something that is most important, in fact, something that is the safety of citizens and, above all, the legality of the work of police officers is very important. However, everything here is said, some have even said here, as counterpart Ostojic, former and minister, that when you do not want to solve the problem, establish a commission so that, when you set it up, the problem will never be solved. When we talk about this, then we must say that in this first step it is likely that it will begin to try to solve certain things and trust citizens in police officers. Of course, this is not exclusively an attack on police and police officers, but to ensure the safety and trust of our citizens to the police. Of course, when we talk about the problems they are citizens of, we need to list a few examples from the media, which have never been solved by these problems, and then leave the impression of the uncertainty and the lack of the work of the police, and in fact the police in these circumstances, mainly at lower levels, are working under a lot of difficult circumstances, looking at all the threats that we currently have at this moment. Of course, these members of the commission are mostly people with experience, reading their résumés or work in certain security communities or police or in the Ministry, have in their résumés listed, although I have not analysed these people in detail, however, when we talk about current threats, i.e. First of all, he would talk about what was left in public unresolved and examples of how very difficult it is for the police, that police officers do not feel that it is in accordance with the law. I will give the first example that remains specific and is never solved. It's a swastika on the Man. Let's just say, it was one bad marketing, bad vantage point, that we were a Nazi characteristic, i.e. from Hitler's Germany, which left a great trail, not only within Croatia but also outside, that Croatia is Nazi, never solved the case. But in citizens, it's left in their heads that it's easy to solve, the end of today's techniques, technology, but it's not easy to make a swastika either on the Human. If the commission is going to give this and these people within the commission, the parliamentary commission, if they're going to give some kind of security and have some influence, how much influence is that within the MUP, and we as a legislative body are bringing, it's now a question, but these bad messages, let's say, I mentioned the swastika on the Man, is something that makes people desperate. Despair and failure of the police officers' system. And I don't believe, here, not even a day here is the former minister, that it's impossible to solve any of this mark that was thrown on Croatia, on my town of Split, so perhaps, under the alleged signs, who knows who it's all on... However, there was obviously no interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's the interest, there's the former minister, maybe he could explain it. So, some things are unclear to people. Here, I ask that out, every day I'm in touch with ordinary citizens and there's a lot of writing about it, a lot of talking, excuse me. We have an example and a case of Pajcic in Vukovar who also remained secret as well because the consequences are as they are, whether it was the police's behaviour in the way that the tribal, who acted, how he acted, but this was not an attack on the police, I was a police officer before I went to the Croatian army at first, so that these people know that they are working under difficult circumstances, I think that these things that are media-exposed leave the impression of uncertainty with citizens, just now my colleague Vučetic mentioned the case as a speeding ride from the deputy police director and these cases leave an impression of uncertainty. However, the uncertainty among citizens is evident in the migrant crisis as well. So, we can't expect 6500 cops to do their job at the border as well as possible, to be technicalally helpful, to pay them, to provide them, to provide them with this, to do their job in stopping illegal border crossing, but the safety of our citizens is at risk. It's not just the police officers who are responsible. We can't tell the guilty are police officers if we have too many entrances of uncontrollable migrants that threaten the safety of Croatian citizens, their property, I spoke in Vrgorec in the case of a man from the garage at 2pm after the night, when they called that his car was found 10km from his house, and the vehicle that was in the garage, the damage was done to the car, so we have countless examples. Here in this case, the migrant crisis, where we don't use even the current legal powers because it's easier for us, where the system says it's easier to send our army to the Russian border, to Afghanistan, to missions where our soldiers literally become clay pigeons in some situations, whose interests and meaning of more of this peace mission are aware of the circumstances that we are in NATO because I've been a professional soldier for 17 years and I get the whole story, but we have the legal possibility, the law on borders, that the military, at the request of the interior minister, will help the police in this insurance of Croatian borders, and especially in this example of illegal crossings of course and the crossing of various criminals who will transfer or drug or something like that. Therefore, we have, I don't know why we don't want to use this legal possibility that the Croatian army paid by Croatian taxpayers, a Croatian soldier who would do this job in a quality way and for what he can do it for. It's much simpler for us to send it on, according to Russia in Lithuania up to the border or not all of which missions. I think these proposed people will try to do everything in this committee that needs to be done, which will be the effects, we'll see. Whether to increase the perception of our citizens towards the police, whether they will do everything they can, people will likely strive in circumstances where they can and today's threats that we have in the Republic of Croatia, but the perception few of those media cases that have been and many complaints people who are not media according to the work of police officers do not make a good impression on the police, but police who indeed most of these people, not most of them, but most of them, most of the people, police officers are doing their job. We have no confidence in the police and according to the resolution, otherwise in the repressive apparatus, otherwise people have to trust because they'll feel safe. If they have no confidence in the repressive apparatus, there is uncertainty of all, and when uncertainty cannot advance neither the economy nor the economy, nor the survival of the people of the Republic of Croatia and safety is the most important thing. And I would once again say that I want every cent of the commission to work on the complaints of the MUP, of course I want the MUP to do their job in the interests of the safety of Croatian citizens, to protect human rights, and that is at least the perception part to solve if we already have problems, and every system has problems that people, people, begin to believe that they are living in a safe state, that they are protected and therefore I expect this commission to give pain. How much, we'll see. We've given them some power as a parliament, but here I would say that the safety of citizens is the most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187551	Thank you, too. The replica has Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bully, you were talking about the repressive apparatus and the complaints of the people, the citizens of that machine. What most citizens are having nightmares and what really bothers them most is unequal.../incomprehensible/... towards them. So we also had a month ago the first reading of the Fans Act where it is actually passed legally that fans who drink more than 2 beers will be severely punished, and even possibly jail time, and on the other hand, alcohol and champagne in the streams are neatly poured. And yet here I say, it's not the cops' fault, it's the officers' orders. So, they'll be given orders to go to the north stands or the east stands, punish them, bypass the lodge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187553	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187554	That law was in the first reading I believe that until the second reading we will equalise inequality, because if in the ceremony they drink champagne and beer in hectolitres and even if sports main competitions are advertised through alcoholic beverages that at one point is only repression, I am personally to control fans mainly, not to control them, but to make alcohol as little as possible because alcohol causes, but here is the issue of inequality. In the solemn lodges, of course, drinking drinks in hectolitres is alcoholic, toasting, boasting and, of course, that this message is disastrous to fans and other citizens, and that these events of frustration stemming from are essentially certain behaviours of cheerleading groups as groups that cannot be controlled, and in fact this is the cause of this legislative body if we allow this law for fans to be subordinated to teams that are in the solemn loins.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187555	Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187556	A fellow Bull would be good if you were driven into despair by all the swastikas, not just the one on the Earth. I'll remind you that Osijek was a situation that left the stadium empty. I hope that the fascism that happened there bothers you just as much and drives you to despair as other things do. As far as Mr. Pajcic is concerned, I must tell you that you have a verdict, so you might know that nothing to do with police treatment and that detail could not have happened. And what's most important to me in despair is that you don't know the law. It's not the minister who handles police business. Neither was Mr. Vlaho Orepić authorized, nor was Mr. Bozinovic to do so because otherwise Mr. Orepic would not have promoted all police officers who were led by the police administration in Split at the time of the swastika. And as for these swastikas here, you see this one much easier to find, you see a complex nice or when you put the benches together, etc., and that one should need you. Just as worried as the others in this country are drawn. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187557	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187558	My colleague Ostojić, I have cited certain examples that have left a poor impression of perception of security in unsettled cases that have arisen. Here, you were, by chance, a minister and of course, that swastika made a perception. I personally condemn everyone who is total regimes, all symbols that appear anywhere. Nazi, fascist, of course, and total communist regimes. And this is what the Council of the EU has brought to its resolution, and I have absolutely no problem with it because that is how victims of those times and people who had, i.e. They had victims. I don't have a problem with that. However, I do tell you that in Split, Dalmatia, the Republic of Dalmatia, among the cheerleading groups, it is still unthinkable that someone could have made a swastika so much on the lawn, that the case was not solved. That's what I'm talking about. Not at all. Here as a representative, now [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] I don't understand how you didn't handle it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187559	Thank you. And now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Milorad Pupovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187560	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank all the clubs and all the MPs and MPs who took part in the debate on this proposal on the formation of the Committee on the Monitoring of the Ministry's work or by complaints within the work on the MUP and who, on the one hand, supported this proposal, and, on the other hand, raised a number of concerns and criticisms in view of the current provisions of the law or doubt what purpose, which would be the achievement of this commission, which was first formed after the law had been made possible more than 5 years ago. That's why I wanted to say a few things. First, the normative part of every social or state order has one side, and good practice has the other side. Without the adjustment between the normative part, what is prescribed by law, what is prescribed by sublaws and what is good practice, there is no regulated state, there are no effective authorities, neither the parliamentary nor the civilian authorities of the Authority. For this reason, those who feel that it is necessary for the law to be more explicit and to give this body greater authority are probably right. But on the other hand, we have experience that there are clear regulations, in some cases. I'm going to give an example to the attorney general. The Attorney General has been around for a long time. Longer than I've been in HS. And do you know how long it took from 15% of the answers to the memos of the Attorney General's Office or the Attorney General from the body of the state government to reach 65%? Over 15 years. So, today, according to the latest report by the attorney general, we are 65% of the state's body's response to their correspondence on citizens' complaints. We consider this significant progress, and more than 30% more should be achieved. What any organised society would want, any regulated state would want when relations between institutions are linked. So, I would like to say to my esteemed colleague, Vučetic, yes, we agree with you that this commission should have more power than an ethical-advisive role. But let's look at things on the other side. We need to create good practice and insist on good practice. It's the constituencies, the parliament, the MPs and the MPs who can and should. It is sometimes more important than how many times they will speak in the congregation. This is sometimes more important than how many times they will be in the congregation, so that they can be dedicated to such things in those areas that are close to them. Someone.../incomprehensible... internal affairs and national security, some economic policy, like some of our colleagues from the previous point of discussion. Some issues of human rights or the question of tolerance in society or in general a value order within society. For that reason, I wouldn't underestimate what we have, what we're doing today, and the decision we're about to adopt tomorrow. I wanted to encourage those, encouraged by what I heard, as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and who, whose proposer at this debate, say that we are proposing to the Parliament, after the consultations we held during the break, that we propose that, with this proposal as an integral part of it, the Parliament accept and conclude that the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities will submit a report to the Parliament once a year on the findings of this Committee. Thus, we will certainly strengthen the relevance of what the commission is doing and thus, we will certainly strengthen both our responsibility and our connection with it. I'd like to say one more thing. This commission isn't just about to blacken the police and the M.O.P. Far from thinking about it. This commission is here to create assumptions for the professional work of every officer, every police officer and the entire system. And to protect police officers from unwarranted objections and accusations on the one hand, but at the same time against the potential risks that this service brings with it in contact with other actors in society. And there aren't a few of them because we're not riskless society in that regard. And of course the weaknesses that anyone can have, including a police officer, especially those who make decisions and who are in charge. For this reason, the Committee will complete this proposal and, please, this conclusion that once a year, a report on the work of this committee is discussed and I ask the clubs to, as they have shown in the debate, show this in accepting this conclusion during tomorrow's vote and to support such a conclusion that such a report comes to the assembly once a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187561	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187562	Proposal for a Decision appointing the members of the Commission to work on complaints in the MUP. The proposer is the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for that decision. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 99 votes for and 1 abstentions have been made in the text as proposed by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187563	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on protection against non-ionising radiation, first reading, P.Z. No. 678 Proposers are representatives of Snježana Sabolek and Damjan Vucelic based on art. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, and the Government delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Representative Damjan Vucelic, please. She will share and after that, representative Snježana Sabolek will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187564	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens who follow us today. With this proposal of the Living Wall Act, which we propose protection against non-ionizing radiation, we propose fines from 150,000 to 500,000,00 kn for each base station placed without use, put into use without a valid permit and this one we have done research in the City of Zagreb which has shown us that more than 90% of the base stations have been built without a valid permit while almost 70% of these same base stations have been placed against the law. Such sources of non-ionising radiation have been prescribed to suspend or prohibit the activity of use or traffic. I would like to emphasise that in Article 1. The 4th draft law aims to regulate the maximum allowed level of non-ionising radiation, and based on recommendations from international and national health organisations, provided that this radiation cannot exceed the 5 lowest limits prescribed by other EU countries. The law also regulates public publication of data on locations and types of sources of non-ionising radiation, and information and education on possible and proven adverse effects of non-ionising radiation on health. The proposal to amend the Law on Protection against non-ionising radiation of the Living Wall is not intended as a restrictive law, nor is it intended as a regulation that will prevent technological progress, the development of telecommunications and other infrastructures, or as a law that will prevent the use of a number of mobile devices that emit the environment of non-ionising radiation. This amendment of the law aims to bring Croatia's legislative framework into line against non-ionising radiation with the best examples of European good practice and recommendations from the European Parliament and the Council of Europe. We are all witnessing the intense development of wireless communications networks, the competition in the introduction of new mobile services that require increasing and higher data transmission speeds, and thus the drastic increase in the number of mobile phone users. This significantly increases the continued long-term exposure of the population to radio frequency electromagnetic radiation. Technology is developing rapidly, and in the race for profit few view the potential harmfulness of new technologies to the health or life of people and the environment. It is almost impossible to investigate the long-term consequences, and the laws are either unsettled or in direct conflict with the interests of citizens, especially in the country of the Republic of Croatia where laws are written in the offices of individuals who will benefit the most from these same laws, or these same laws are not implemented or are hand-cuffed, manipulated by statistics and official measures, and penalties do not exist or are at levels so small that companies are paid to break the law. The HDZ government headed by Jadranka Kosor and the coalition of HSS parties, HSLS, SDSS, HSU and minority representatives brought more in 2010. the current Law on Non-ionizing Emissions. It's been 10 years. We are witnessing more and more lawlessness and the will of large corporations that are foreign owned. In those 10 years, and for the sake of other people's interests, you're all extremely irresponsible. It's time for a new law and it's time for the same law to be implemented. More and more countries and cities such as the Netherlands, Belgium and some US federal states are prohibiting the introduction of a 5G network because they do not want to become test rabbits and will remain banned until human health is tested. Did you know that Brussels has banned the introduction of a 5G network? It is a city known for its politicians and as a centre for EU politics and administration, and in Croatia we start testing in the city of Osijek and later throughout the country. Ask yourself why stop politicians don't want unexplored technology in their backyard, while our politicians are taking the lead with all our prime ministers, putting us under the windows of the base station, on the roofs of our houses, a few dozen meters away from your bedrooms. Did you know that these same base stations are hiding in chimneys to hide them from the view of the residents that are constantly radiating these base stations? Did you know that there are no conditions for setting up base stations in Croatia, except for exceptions such as Zagreb and Istria County? But they're not being held there either. And now, be careful why the Government of the Republic of Croatia rejected the bill of the Living Wall. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that this bill is not in line with the professional bases proposed by the World Health Organization that radiation is within the maximum permitted concentrations following the recommendations of the International Commission on protection against non-ionising radiation. And that, look out, from a long way back in 1998. At present, we have one of the largest permitted concentrations in Europe, and the Commission itself emphasises that recommendations are based on short-term thermal effects that include burns and irritation of peripheral nerves and that the impact of long-term radiation effects on the increased risk of cancer has not even been considered. The World Health Organization, on the other hand, has declared electromagnetic fields a potential carcinogenic for humans, and what does the Living Wall want? The living wall wants to keep the profits ahead, keep the profits behind the health of its citizens, make health a priority. We can have a fast internet, but under our Croatian conditions, not under conditions that impose foreign corporations on us through corrupt politicians with the goal of gaining as much as possible. Therefore, the Law on protection against non-ionising radiation should be taken very seriously and is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and in order for the law to be effectively implemented, e.g. TV operators will have to invest up to 100 times as much money in infrastructure. In doing so, I note, the functionality of the service will not be reduced. Ask yourself, who and why does the existing law please interested groups and to the harm of their own inhabitants? As long as the potential adverse effect on health is not reviewed, it is necessary to approach the implementation of new potentially harmful technologies with caution, and the issue of non-ionising radiation is the issue of environmental protection and health and the issue of national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187565	- Mrs. Crescent. Sabolek, Snow White Sabolek will continue to present this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187566	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear citizens, colleagues and colleagues. With the increase in the number of sources of non-ionising radiation in space, the number of complaints from citizens, the application of a sanitary inspection by the Ministry of Health and the construction inspection by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Because of the way the sources of non-ionizing radiation are placed in space. The scope of the problem is repeatedly indicated by the Office of the Public Prosecutor in its annual reports to HS. There is no doubt that there are problems in implementing the applicable law and specific rules in the area of construction and spatial planning, when it comes to accommodation of resources in space, especially antenna pillars and roof receptions, mobile phone base stations. As a result, this amendment of the law draws closer to the definition of the existing measure of accommodation of the source, art. 7th wheel. Seven. The law attaches particular importance to determining and respecting the conditions of accommodation of a non-ionising radiation source in space in accordance with the precautionary principle. In this respect, the recommendations of the EU Parliament Resolution are respected. The lack of a valid law is also evident in the absence of public education on harmfulness and health risks amid excessive exposure to electromagnetic fields that mimic sources in everyday use. These amendments introduce a new measure of regular education and information to the population, especially children and young people, on the possible and proven adverse effects of non-ionising radiation on health. Measures to indicate the source of that radiation by warning signs according to the classification of potential hazard and the obligation to give instructions for proper use when placing source on the market. Obligations to implement this measure shall be the Ministry of Health and Legal and Physical Persons who place non-ionising radiation sources on the market. With the awareness of possible adverse effects, continued long-term exposure to this radiation, in this, in everyday use, these amendments to the law implement the latest recommendations of the EU Parliament and the Council of the EU and follow positive practices of other EU countries, thus achieving better prevention and greater public confidence in this radiation protection system. These changes more precisely define the division of exposure areas with the purpose of reducing permitted levels of radiation in rooms where particularly sensitive groups of the population, infants, children, minors, pregnant women, patients and persons who are particularly sensitive to electromagnetic radiation are present. While in many European countries the problem is dealt with by doctors and their associations, relevant expert committees, scientists and scientific institutes, politicians and political parties, different associations and others, in Croatia unfortunately not enough medical importance is added. The 2016 report of the 2016 Public Prosecutor's Office points to the need for stronger cooperation of the Ministry of Health with other central authorities responsible for the protection of the environment, energy, construction and spatial planning and the development of new regulations in accordance with the Code of Consulting with the public interest in the procedures for the adoption of laws, other regulations and acts in order to ensure that preventive and protective measures are implemented in a transparent manner and that representatives of the interested and professional public participate in this. Therefore, this amendment to the law defines the introduction and operation of a co-ordination body for non-ionising radiation in accordance with the Public Administration Development Strategy for the period 2015 to 2020, i.e. with the objectives of establishing better horizontal coordination of the public administration body. In this regard, it is well mentioned that the Republic of Slovenia as well as other EU member states has an institute for non-ionising radiation. The fact is that the biological effects of long-term exposure to radio frequency, electromagnetic fields are being intensely conducted as if there is still no full consensus in the scientific community. In addition to studies that have not identified harmful effects, there are a large number of studies that unambiguously identify an increased risk of malignancy and a number of neurotic symptoms. The European Commission shall also monitor the application of these recommendations in the Member States and periodically request a report on the level and manner of implementation of the protection against this radiation. Such reports are the starting point for building an international and national strategy of non-ionising radiation. The monitoring of international regulations, recommendations and standards, the making of reports and the development of a system of draft national strategy and plans in the area of protection against non-ionising radiation from this amendment to the law shall be placed in the jurisdiction of the co-ordination body for non-ionising radiation. This amendment of the law aims to bring Croatia's legislative framework into line with the best application of good practice by the countries, EU member states and the recommendations of the abovementioned resolutions. In a unique and systematic way, it intends to ensure the protection of human life and health regardless of species, intensity, origin and purpose of the source of non-ionising radiation. This amendment of the law creates a better protection of the population by applying binding measures and guidelines to further improve the protection system and the effectiveness of the bodies involved in their implementation. However, the law is not designed as restrictive, as a regulation that will prevent technological progress, the development of telecommunications and other infrastructures. The aim of the proposed amendments to the law is to regulate this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187567	Thank you, too. We've got a few replicas before, and then we'll give the word. The first replica has and it has to do with the gentleman, is, is fine, but before the replica, no. It's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure that has priority, and we've done it before. So Mr. Maras will speak now before you Mr. Bull will speak Mr. Maras because he has one replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187568	But then I insist that you give Bull right after me Well, in your proposal, my colleague Vucelic, what I can agree with is that it is amazing that there is no in Croatia, not only is there no need to issue a building permit if the cells are set up, but there is no one who controls and who sanctions those who set up the stations inconsistencies with spatial plans or legal provisions. [[All right, take care of it, but tell me, go ahead.]] So at this point, you can set up a station practically anywhere if there's no public pressure, if no one on private property is going to be able to sanction whoever put it there. And that's one area to take care of. I agree with that, and I support that we are going in that direction, although I do not agree with the uncanny background on which you perform, and that you create without any. the basis of some conclusions that you're still saying that... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187569	Mr. Vucelic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187570	Comrade Maras, as for creating panic, I emphasized in my presentation, and that is the attitude of the Living Wall that we do not want to put on the market and use unexplored technology. If there are any doubts about people's health, it should be investigated first, not about people being guinea pigs, so what happens? I must remind you that some 100 years ago in 1920, a miraculous potion was sold in the U.S., it was called Radiator, so they put it in the water radium and they sold it, not just out of ignorance, but out of profit. So for about 10 years it was known that it was bad for health, that people died of it, but it was still sold because it was sold well. Ten years should've been banned. So the same thing can happen today with non-ionizing radiation. I thank you for your criticism and constructive proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187571	Thank you very much. The second line has Mr. Lovrinovic, also on Mr. Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187572	Thank you. Dear fellow Vucelic, you are, you are, you are objecting from the Living Wall that in one unprofessional way you have proposed the law, and we know the rest of the MPs that you are the most combating this savage behaviour of telecommunications companies, you and colleagues Bulj and Pernar, etc., all of them say that, that you are not professional in this. So why did he refuse a Brussels, for example? where is the EU's power centre, why haven't they accepted 5G technology by hand if it's so advanced, if it's such a harmless and large part of the cities across Western Europe? Please answer why our government and the prime minister, they warmly support it here by the Republic of Croatia and why they expose us to be trying rabbits and isn't it strange that the percentage of cancer in the Republic of Croatia is growing, is that not the reason?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187573	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187574	Dear colleague Lovrinović, here's a thank you for this comment. I must mention that we are at the very top not only by diagnostics but also in cancer deaths, we are a clean country and we really have to wonder why this happened, I'm not saying that the impact of non-ionizing radiation is caused by it, but maybe it's one of the factors. And as for our politicians and our government, we in the Living Wall are certain that they do not work in the interest of Croatian citizens and work in the interest of either their own or the interests of large corporations. Whether it's because of their political ambition, their own wealth, or going to Brussels alone, it's probably all three of them, but it's certainly up to every single person to depend on something of those three things, something is certain, and unfortunately the citizens will suffer their health too. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187575	Mr. Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187576	Thank you very much, Vice President. Col. Vucelic, we in the Legislative Committee have supported your bill and the HSS Club will support him because we believe that the health of citizens must be ahead of profits and that it is certainly not good for teleopers and large companies to set up base stations wherever they want, and even in the vicinity of schools and kindergartens, and I think that citizens and the interests of our children's health should be before profits and certainly that you speak well of that, even though the profit is a little bit running away or you also love it if we see that there has been some problem with both your profits and personal breakthrough, so I hope that you will resist it, and we will support such quality moves and suggestions as long as the interest of citizens and health is before profit, and you have kept your profits and you see that it has divided you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187577	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187578	Thank you for this sarcastic throw. I'd just like to say that we from the Living Wall advocate that base stations are placed 10 meters above the highest point in, in that space, we're trying not to have at least 100 meters of any residential building. Unfortunately, today, base stations are placed in front of people's windows in their family homes and apartments. We're afraid that when another 5G technology comes in where every 100 meters will have to be a repeater that there's going to be a lot of things. Uh, but right now, the state of affairs, there's lawlessness. And what's worse, the teleopers aren't punished, and I say 70% of the base stations are set up illegally, over 90% doesn't have a valid license, and that's one problem, the problem is in inspection, the problem is also in laws that don't apply, and even in laws that are the same. which is not in the interest of Croatian residents. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187579	And now the replicas begin to appear on the lady, on the subject of Mrs. Devereaux's exposure. Sabolek, first Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187580	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm a little late, so I'm still gonna tell Mrs. Devereaux. Salopek that I'll replicate Mr. Vuconiæ if I can. So, I agree that there's a gray area in the legal area, that there's one and the other, that there's...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187581	Mr. Križanić, you must...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187582	I'll rephrase it to Mrs. McNally. Salopek okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187583	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187584	Sabolek, I apologize. [[Sabolek from the bench: Not Salopek, Sabolek]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187585	Let's round the table about it make it now. Please, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187586	I agree that there is a gray area in legislation and I agree that this should be changed. However, it should be said that it is still from Milanovic's government regulation and it is not true that we are not fighting it anywhere, in Varazdin County we fight daily against, that minimum conditions are met and conditions are required and conditions for setting up base stations. Let's say from the Ministry of Culture, where they revil the visors of the settlements, and they disrespect them, but surely they don't need to spread panic the same way we're spreading panic about GMOs, so now we're spreading panic from the base station that they're carcinogenic and that miracles happen. So, I am for regulation, to lay down regulations, but not gray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187587	Mrs. Devereaux. Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187588	Thank you, Mr. Representative, so as I have mentioned in my presentation and mentioned, there is still no full agreement in scientific community in studies that have not identified harmful influences, there are also a large number of studies that determine the increased risk of malignancies, as well as numerous neurovegetative symptoms. In this, the lack of a valid law is also reflected in the absence of education of the population on harmfulness and health risks due to excessive exposure to these areas that emit sources in everyday use. This is exactly the law. amending the law introduces a new measure of regular education and information to the population, which is not the case at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187589	Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187590	Thank you, esteemed chairman, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, above all, all of us who do public work, whether they were representatives of HS or doing public work as mayors and mayors, we must clearly take care of health protection. I have no doubt that we all care about it together. I don't think it's a good thing we're doing some kind of general psychosis and the fear of citizens of technology. I agree, I repeat again that we must protect our citizens from base stations and that is the duty of our representatives, but also of me as head of the local self-government unit. But I'd love to know, if something isn't good, if something's damaging to human health, to me, to my children, that we're simply talking about it publicly. A colleague of Sabolek you said there was an institute in Slovenia that took care of these base stations, so did they find that the base cells are harmful to health? And another question is whether you're against the 5G network or against the 4G network. with base stations. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I mean, it's important that we know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187591	Thank you. Mrs. Sabolek, if you want to answer, and you want to answer, I know you have to lift the bat, that's what I'm telling you later, I was trying to tell your colleague but he didn't get me. Okay? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187592	I would just answer that in Slovenia in Ljubljana they have rejected and there is no 5G network. Their parliament agreed that Ljubljana does not have a 5G network.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187593	Thank you, too. I am taking the opportunity to welcome the students and students of the first technical school of Nikola Tesla from Zagreb, one round of applause for them, please. Let's move on with the replicas. [[Applause.]] Mr. Plazonich.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187594	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that the crown of the past days has caused a lot of panic in this country and that there is no need to expand and shine panic among people in particular about things that we know little or little about the adverse impact of non-ionizing radiation on human health. In fact, this is a topic that deals with the world's entire range of scientific institutions that are independent, and what is a telecomputer. On the other hand, we use the benefits of these modern technologies, send our children to school with cell phones, type indefinitely, and do not pay attention to our own health. I would leave it to scientists first to determine the problem of this issue, and then to take it later. It's a political thing to deal with. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187595	Mrs. Sabolek, for the last time, I'm telling you, you need to get up, here, here you go, and that's the last time I'm saying it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187596	So I have already mentioned that there is still no full consensus in the scientific community with studies that have not identified harmful effects there are also studies that identify an increased risk of malignancies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187597	And in the end, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187598	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, it is clear to you that this bill will be rejected, I will personally support it. In fact, it's good to open this debate, this really is a technological issue. The introduction of a 5G network will need to increase the number of base stations, experts say it will reduce in fact their strength will be a larger number with less power, a lower health impact. However, there will have to be additional efforts not only through this law, but the entire European Commission, I don't know if you heard the data, from next year it will be a unique charger for a cell phone. It would also be good if the base stations didn't have every operator of their own. Why wouldn't one base station cover all the operators? Well, you know why, 'cause then it's their profit. We are talking here today about profits, profits from teleoperators acting as they behave and Croatia is the only country in which no building permit is needed, does not need a public debate, which is not good. That should be introduced. And I will support your proposal, but I'm telling you don't have the illusion that it will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187599	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but you'll be able to speak on behalf of the motionary and answer all these questions. Sir, Mr. Bully, after all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187600	Thank you very much. Here I am looking for a break on behalf of the club regarding the law on non-ionizing radiation. Of course, we are talking about a topic that has become somehow mystical, which is essentially a tribune to talk about, is a fear, rather than simply being done by other EU countries, and as far as the base stations in Croatia are concerned, it is absolutely anarchy and teleoperate. All the countries of Europe and the EU have building permits so as to place base stations on kindergartens, with windows near houses without any restrictions, without building permits only in the Republic of Croatia. And teleopers, for example, Deutsche Telekom or HT's biggest profit is in the Republic of Croatia, and there's absolutely no harm in the health of the population. And even about how these base stations are set up, there is no need for the consent of the neighbours, nor is there a need for the consent of local self-government units, but only in Croatia. Even in the EU, this is necessary in countries where they come from. We must fellow MPs, that's what I proposed the Construction Act, that teleopers in the Republic of Croatia behave like in countries where they come from, I was an activist, I was an activist, only in Istria was it resolved by the county's spatial plan. And I think teleopers don't respect it because Croatia doesn't, they don't care. 400 meters from building or building land. This is a serious topic where our political elites favor the Misetic dynasty, at the Misetic dynasty, and I will discuss it in the individual, in the name of the club and in the individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187601	Mr. Maras also asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is one thing for colleagues and colleagues to give citizens certain technological assumptions Yes, yes [[You're looking for a break, aren't you?]] So give it back, then. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] It is one thing to provide citizens with a certain technical infrastructure and the possibility to live in one quality way, while another is to allow El Dorado to develop in Croatia on this issue. [[- Yeah, yeah, I'll keep an eye out, don't worry, go ahead.]] Here I will say one example which I am particularly concerned with and which I am not happy with, 579 base stations have been set in Zagreb, so in the city of Zagreb from different operators, many of them are not in line with urban plans or with the requirements set by certain legal solutions. What bothers me even more is that when citizens complain to the city administration, the Office for Spatial Planning gets an answer that they can't do anything about it, and they are the ones who should be controlled by municipal directors around the city of Zagreb as they walk to determine which base stations are not in line with the spatial plans set up, which the base stations are not in line with the legal solutions and ask the operator to adhere to the legal solutions in the Republic of Croatia. In this area we still have I said a cloudy, gray area where there are simply no clear relationships and that's what needs to be fought against. Clear relations should be set, citizens should be protected and their health put first and it should be known how things are arranged. Only in Croatia, unfortunately there are no such rules, is there not one of the major cities of the European metropolis in Zagreb. The community directors should do their job, the city administration should do its job and stand behind its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187603	He also asked for a word, Mr. Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187604	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the Living Wall and Change Croatia I am also looking for a break to further explain and discuss this topic which is on the agenda today about non-ionising radiation. I would like to ask all these moral verticals from HDZ on the basis of which conclusions and research have they come to their opinion that this technology and all other technologies that would be introduced into the application that is harmless, especially for technologies that are suspected of begging to be potentially carcinogenic? I assure you that none of these moral verticals want a base station in front of their house and everyone will run as far away as possible, if they need to sell houses even if they'll probably make that happen on their street or in their neighborhood. They are all in elite areas outside of Zagreb, and they truly care if someone will have 10 or 20 meters from their window base station. These same people here today are telling us in the Parliament that this is where the panic is spreading. We don't panic, we just want enough technology to be explored before it's placed on the market. We're all witnesses to the tobacco industry, and for decades she's convinced us that the tobacco wasn't harmful, the more he recommended it was smoking, so look what happened today. You all know the recipe of Coca-Cola as he initially worked for the first 10 years, he retreated into the leaves of Coca-Cola. So these are all some of the things that we people have done for profit, some out of ignorance, but most of the profit. I must point out that there are billions in play here. Telecoms are going to be billions, not that they're going to make billions, and now imagine how much they're going to make by introducing 5G technology. There's a lot of money in the game, and that's why this crew here is so much at stake that these proposals of the Living Wall don't see the light of day. The question of what interests do you gentlemen work in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187605	Thank you very much. Mr. Plazonich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187606	I'm looking for a two-minute break to get a little consultation on how we're going to talk to our colleague Vucelic about this issue, although I would like to talk to him myself, but I'm afraid it would not speak equally at the same level. This is a topic that I know something about, unlike him. So this is public talk and intimidation, there is not one man here, nor in this country who would not want this area to be explored in detail because today we use more than 2 million mobile devices, they are used by our children, our families, and of course we care that we know if there are harmful influences and if they exist to what extent. I said earlier that a whole series of scientific institutes in the world deal with this area that are even more equipped and have a larger pattern. Some of them are dependent on some telecom operators, some are not, some are independent of God, and I trust them much more. As far as the 5G network is concerned, it should be made clear that the frequency at which 5G will work has been set or some television channels have been removed from that area, and we have been under the influence of television channels for 60 or 80 years, and I don't know how many televisions there are anymore. So we're constantly under some of the effects of electromagnetic radiation, now we're only picking up on this story. So let's take a look at how many power grids we end up under the influence of sunlight, these massive radiations and the nets we have in use that we don't use, etc. We've caught on to these, but let's be careful when we talk about this topic if we're panicking and I mean it needlessly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187607	Mr. Plazonic, I'm sorry, but I have to hold certain time discipline. The stop will be by 13.00 hours when we will proceed with the release of the stand. Thank you very much. MEETING IN 12.47 HOURS We are done with positions and now let's move on with our Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Non-ionizing radiation. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? With us Mr. Zeljko Plazonić is a state secretary at the Ministry of Health, do you want to? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187609	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes not to accept the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on protection against non-ionising radiation. The draft law does not comply with the professional bases proposed for non-ionising radiation by the World Health Organization, then the International Commission for the Protection of Non-ionising Emissions, which has taken over the Law on the Protection of Non-ionising Emissions, then the provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications, and the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning, and the items in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, 2021 and 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187610	You have, Mr. Plazonic, two replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187611	Thank you very much. I'd ask the secretary of state, here's a simple question, who's in charge of determining if the base stations are in line with the spatial plans and with the regulations in force in the Republic of Croatia? How many of these inspections have been carried out? And what I'm particularly interested in is whether or not there's a base station that's not set up in accordance with the regulations being removed? Here's what I'm interested in, given that there are 1,000 in Croatia, since there are 1,000 of them, I'm interested in how many of these supervisions you've done and how many times has the state reacted in the situation when she saw that regulations and other regulations are not respected? So it's expected to be about dozens and hundreds of surveillance and station movements, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187612	Answer, Mr. Plazonich.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187613	I must admit that your question does not have a very direct direct relationship with the Ministry of Health, it was more instructed to ask the Ministry of Civil Engineering because they are in charge of this legislative regulation or the State Inspectorate on inspection and inspection findings and I can talk about the health effect of electromagnetic radiation as much as you want and whenever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187614	Mr. Maras, you've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187615	Thank you very much, 238, the article was injured. Mr. Plazonic, you're a representative of the government here, so the government is running the Republic of Croatia, we're here to discuss this issue, if you're not in charge of this, you should have brought in a representative of the Government who is responsible for this and who could give us an answer to the question. It's enough for the citizens to dump them, to transfer them from one to the next, and to finally get answers from no one. So I expect about the government of the Republic of Croatia for these simple and simple answers, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187616	Time. And you and I both know that he didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, but we're moving on like he said before, right? Okay. ... You can't give it, but you can look for it at any time, and you and your colleague, you can ask here for five minutes to present the motionary's opinion so that you have every opportunity in the world to say your opinion. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And now you can do it whenever you want. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187617	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, do you have any information that electromagnetic radiation from base stations does not cause health problems and at what distances? Do you know the World Health Organization's position in 2013 that the possible cause of the tumor is electromagnetic radiation? Is it possible in the Republic of Croatia to be the base station of a ten-metre anti-space plan as it is now set up in Sinj after the bakery? 10 meters from the window of a girl, here I have a picture of a girl here. You see how big the base station is. So what is your foundation? Tell me, how do you appeal to Brussels that the mayor said that even their citizens don't want to be trying swearing? Who doesn't want certain radiation without scientific research? The example of Switzerland or Geneva and other thousands of cities, how do you explain it, what are your facts that electromagnetic radiation in a certain proportion is not harmful?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187618	Thank you, Mr. Bull, thank you very much. Mr. Plazonic, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187619	First of all, as far as the data on the harmfulness of electromagnetic radiation to human health is concerned. We can freely say today that there is no relevant and independent report or study of how and how electromagnetic radiation affects the human organism. As first of all, you need to know that we ourselves as living beings have electromagnetic radiation, each of us here an individual, that now all of us in this room are in an electromagnetic field, that there are certain electromagnetic radiations that have nothing to do with base cells, which are geological, etc. So, just look back at those base stations where I have to say that they're just emitters so much more radiating these two phones that I have with me for my health because they're the ones that receive and the ones that transmit electromagnetic radiation, so that would mean that in that context, yes, a little time has come in, but clearly, this is a topic that we can very much, thank you very much, forgive me. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mr. Plazonic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187620	Thank you very much. Sir, you'll have to come here, you know, Mr. Damjan Vucelic on behalf of the promoter will use his right to say that he refers to what is said, you have 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187621	Dear Secretary of State, I haven't had a chance to give you a replica of your exposure since I would be here solving these problems about the very announcements of the promoters. I would ask you to give me a replica now and answer me why the Ministry of Health just doesn't follow the recommendations of information to the public? In fact, as a ministry, you have made one video of the adverse effects of the base stations and other mobile devices on health. So this video exists, and they were literally hidden on their pages where some average user can't even find that video unless there's some hacking skills. You were obliged to forward this video to various kindergartens and schools in order to inform the public about these adverse effects. My question is, did you do it or not? If it isn't then please answer why it wasn't done. On the other hand, this cell phone that I have in my hand, so I'm aware of its adverse effects, I know what potential consequences it has on my health, I accept and bear the responsibility of using that device, and if anything is in the future, it's my own fault, but I've been informed of all possible and harmful consequences. For some things it's not like that, I have to remind you, I've been there talking throughout human history of such things happening with the aim of profit, mostly profit, and sometimes ignorance of people being consciously poisoned. I'm going to add another example to you, in the fifties of the last century in the U.S., where children were sprayed by DDT insecticide to prove themselves. prove to the public no harm to this insecticide. It's only 20 years after that he's banned. But imagine what was done. I also mentioned to you the tobacco industry, I mentioned Coca-Cola and defrosting into the coke leaves, I've mentioned a few examples to you. I'm afraid it's also done with non-ionizing radiation. There was one representative who mentioned the sun as a source of non-ionizing radiation, I need everyone who listens to this, but also to the representatives who probably know this, but here you take advantage of it for your own purpose, the sun is mostly to the greatest natural neionizing i.e. The most produces non-ionizing radiation, but I also have to tell you that man, and all of the plant and animal world throughout history, has evolved in the past adapted to that kind of radiation. We're also not exposed to the sun 24 hours a day, but we're evolutionaryly adapted. This is what you do with non-ionizing radiation that's been done in the last 20 years, i.e. The entire electrical net of the last 100 years, but it's one unnatural source of non-ionizing radiation from electromagnetic fields to which man is not accustomed. And you know what, research doesn't work, research doesn't exist except what I've mentioned researching whether you're going to get burns on your skin. I mean, what about our internal organs, what about potential tumors, nobody's talking about it. Until this technology is explored, enough to say that safe technology, it is unserious of us as a society to implement such technology. You'll most of you be buried already when people start getting sick of it, it might be 20 years from now, you're all over 50 years old, i.e. Most of you, you don't care what happens, but think about your grandchildren, think about your children because you have them. And if you don't think like that, but you're only thinking about your political career, raising your hands for your HDZ club or SDP club, I don't know how they're gonna react around this law, you're thinking about your interests, you're not thinking about our population. Follow orders from Brussels or the United States or no matter where you don't care about your country. It's not just this law. We don't have any laws. I won't say any, but most of the law in Croatia is not in the interest of our population, it isn't. We are either at the top or at the very top in the number of cancer patients or in the number of cancer patients. So why? Well, we live in the cleanest country in Europe, so it makes sense to you, so something's wrong with you, something you're doing wrong, or it's poison food, or it's poison water, or it's toxic non-ionizing radiation, but there's a problem. Did you ask yourself how, where did that come from? You're not, you're just looking at your wallets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187622	... You have two replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187623	The Honorable Chairman. I ask from this place a question, why is there so few MPs in the assembly today? Is it perhaps about the fear of the coronary virus, or do we actually have a chronic virus here, a non-rading virus, a virus ignoring its work obligations? And the question arises why do voters vote for these MPs or for these political options that suffer from the virus of unhappiness, laziness and do not come to their jobs? I wish there was an answer to that question, and I'd be in pain of investigating why the MPs are not at work today, because it's a question that is of great interest to many of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187624	Who did you replicate to? If you want to answer, you won't. Okay. Mr. Maras, here's another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187625	Thank you very much. Mr Vucelic, you have quite simply concluded that some MPs here react in a way that they care about their wallets, I do not see any connection between whether anyone will vote for this law or not, at least as far as SDP's position is concerned with someone's wallet. Well, let's not see any connection, so that's something on that side that's clear in itself. What's the problem is that even though the state doesn't offer answers to the questions that are logically asked here, it doesn't offer any solution. So in my opinion, the solution is to get to the government that will regulate the market here and think about the interests of citizens in a way that meets their infrastructure needs and needs for quality service, but on the other hand, to protect their health. So here we have a gray zone and we should fix it. There are penalties in your law, but unfortunately there are no solutions that would help us all to have a better situation tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187626	Thank you very much. Mr. Vucelic, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187627	Dear Representative Maras, the Living Wall believes that your party and your maybe potential government is not the government that will take Croatia on the right track. You run the same policy as HDZ, your policies are identical. You differ only in ideology you differ only in the voices of people who, whether it's people on the left or on the right, but you do, you run the same policy, you even support this law, you do it out of your interest, because you calculated that you might get some support in the people, but I think you won't support this law because you simply don't function that way. You're a politician, your client is. It happens quite often that I hear myself called the Living Wall of the populists. Mrs. Maras, your client is populist. HDZ's party is populist, Bandic's party and Bandic himself are populist. We're not. We're telling the truth, and you're all doing what you're doing, so you can come to power. And in the end, you'll be doing the same thing. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] And so are your predecessors. [[/Intruder Radin: Thank you, time. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187628	Time. Oh, good. I'm opening a debate now. There hasn't even been a debate yet. It's only now that I'm opening the debate and it's the first time Mr. Miro Bulj is in front of the Advocacy List Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187629	Thank you very much, esteemed secretary with your associate. My colleagues and colleagues, we're not here in large numbers yet. I think it's a very important topic, when it comes to the health security of our citizens, when it comes to the environment, when it comes to this, and I'm also an activist on base stations, and now it's even proven in January 2015, and 14th and 13th when the base stations are set up by the window of people in adjacent buildings, old buildings, there that I'm involved in this topic. I had, of course, protests and actions, and here on Saturday, it would be good, I'd like you to come, secretary, you're from my neighborhood, on the platform of base stations and health radiation in Sinj. I also had a round table, I also proposed a law that was not respected, so for the first time I spoke on the Committee on Transport, about this issue, when I was talking about disrespecting spatial plans, i.e. only in Croatia, which is not respecting spatial plans, only in Croatia for base stations do not need licenses. It is a basic and fundamental setting, not in Europe, not in the EU, but throughout Europe, even in Serbia-Montenegro. I gave that law, you didn't vote with it, you didn't vote either SDP or HDZ for that bill. We have another problem. How did this problem come about? We had to have a telecommunications system in order to have national security. We, unfortunately, gave it, in privatisation, it began to privatise HDZ, and ended the SDP privatisation that we put into foreign hands, a set of our telecommunications system. Construction, of course, started with a guessing, the building permit for the base stations was abolished, and of course it led to this situation that in us absolute anarchy in setting up the base stations. Since 2014, 15, I have been active on this topic, not as an agent but as an activist. I know that in the proposed laws, I have talked about these problems in this assembly, but I have absolutely never had the support of large parties, neither the SDP nor the HDZ. And the basic reason for my proposals was to prevent electromagnetic radiation on people against regulations. The only thing I've asked is that the teleopers in the Republic of Croatia behave like in the states where they come from. And even in Varazdin they organized the stands,... I've been taking part since the first day, since they started, there is, I said in Sinj, at the hotel, on Saturday at 11 a.m. on this call to the citizens, here and I live and I know the matter because a few days ago, the esteemed secretary, on the post, you see this column here, fellows, on the pole where the chimney was, from the bakery, the adopted base station, I didn't see any bigger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you see this little girl looking here, see, from the window? Would you like this to be your granddaughter? And if she was your granddaughter, then what would she do? That your granddaughter was looking at this boulder, a few dozen meters out the window. Look. You don't mind, do you? You're okay, that's why we're here. Let him do this in Germany where the telegrapher comes from. So are you ashamed that this isn't your problem? ... You said you were waving your head off, if you hadn't said, then you'd say we'd accept the same conditions that teleprasts behave the same way they do in countries where they come from. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No less or less, but you don't have the courage to take a look at the base stations of one child, one child 20 meters. This is 20 days ago, and now it's open here and a casino for rewarding whoever bought the bakery and instead of the bakery, look what he did. In the middle of the city of Sinja. That's what they call me in Trogir, that's where they call me in Split, so in Zagreb. I've warned for years and the first time I've said anything about this problem. And it breaks the GUP here even, the spatial plan, the inspection. Andrija Mikulić's answer is simple. The health department says there's no radiation. And I ask him if you're breaking the GUP, I'm asking him something else because 50 meters and now in the GUP, it's forbidden to build these antenna pillars or base.../incomprehensible... cells. You're absolutely guessing, but it's only because of the Misetic Dynasty that you're doing it. You can't say that. You can't. ... No, no, only the government of the Republic of Croatia that you're in, are you in the government of the Republic of Croatia? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're in the government of the Republic of Croatia? Secretary of the Ministry of Health? Secretary of the Ministry of Health? ... I'm speaking to you as Secretary of the Ministry of Health. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Which is why you are allowed to be wrongly, to ask you a question, you have to answer me. You allow it to be placed on a post, on a chimney, where there was a bakery, a base station, see what they are. And the people oppose, the mother of this child is pregnant, the tribune is born in 20 days, the mother is in fear, this in Germany you will not see where she came from, this, the teleoperator, nor will you see this in Austria. So I'm personal, and here I'm going to talk about what your reasons are. So the only reason teleoperators are that we don't favor construction, we even had money to build our optical network, European funds, we don't have the courage... Angels Merkel, we have to make out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have, so, at all, national security is at stake here, so we don't have, uh... The system of connections is managed by foreigners, left in their hands, and has the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia because of this behaviour. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let them do this in the country, if we are equally legally in the European Union, let them do this in Germany. Let him do this. So, we have an obligation, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm grateful to those who have accepted these proposals that the building permit must be made for building base flats and roofs, base stations and roof columns for base stations. Of course, the triba take measures and it is best solved in Istria, the Istrian County is the best solver, she said 400 meters from building land or the last built building, I personally suggested in Split-Dalmatia County, are now changing the spatial plan, to also be 400 meters, and we as a state have to level the same conditions of base stations, setting base stations as in other countries. As far as radiation is concerned, 'who can answer me why in Brussels the mayor said, I have nothing against technology, namely, 5G network, personally, it's a triba to develop, but when in Brussels, at the centre of political power, the mayor said he didn't want to build a 5G network because he doesn't want their citizens to be trying rabbits, do you know that?, so in Brussels, a 5G network project was stopped, in Switzerland in Geneva, in a number of other cities, and more and more, because we don't have research that says it's not harmful. Is it harmful or not harmful, so, these, we even have a World Health Organization, that... to quote, in 2013, she said that the possible cause of the increase in brain tumors is electromagnetic radiation of the base cells. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're talking about radiation to this natural, and do you know how many bees in the world, this one, was a bee killing, mostly around base stations, do you know that? I mean, look, it's not a problem of technology development, it's a problem here, and we need to develop technology, progress, so here's the forced contamination of this child without his will, and against the law, and that's what teleopers do. And you as the Ministry of Health, construction inspection, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, no matter what, if someone is under the window, this is from a few days ago, I won't be talking about the base station on Radosic where the police were taking us in, people have been doing their job, and in fact it has been proven that it was unlawfully placed... And what are they doing? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see this chimney, the man bought this bakery, he asked for a re-purpose from industry to business, I'm like a councilman on the town of Sinj's spatial plan, the GUP, that is, he gave the amendment that we'd re-purpose, to take down the base station, he didn't take down the base station, but he still continued to build the base stations, and we refused. And he wins for the prize that in this bakery, now in the industrial zone, we have a casino, it's close to school, kindergarten, base station. And not only did that owner of this bakery, bought this chimney here, and made the chimney... A column, but he started buying houses where he now rents teleopers for base stations, old... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Homes, old stops, sing, what's his name, and create business out of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So he buys a stop by your house, an old one, is there some space, because in Croatia he is not, why do they do it?, because in Croatia they do not need a building permit. And in Croatia alone, teleopers do not need a building permit. And the child, someone to do this to get his base station ten meters from the window, look at a picture of a colleague and a colleague, ten meters without the consent of local self-government, breaking the Space Plans, with the blessing of the Ministry of Health, and what are you going to tell this child now? So you know that you have, you have an obligation, that is to show, it is said, to show the videos that the European Council, the European Union, the European Parliament, are essentially to display the harmfulness of electromagnetic radiation, the wi-fi, that is our choice, we cannot influence it, but this is what you have made, and worry you, let it do this in Germany, let it target someone's child's base station by the window, and you know when people are rebelling?, when it comes to their window, when they reach their child's base station window. Of course I will support this Act, I am also a promoter, I may have mentioned this in the Parliament first, and remember when I mentioned this in the Assembly, then the media shared, that is, the teleoperators gave a statement that they wrote stop Mira Bulja, will bring us back to the Stone Age, and I only ask that they behave as in the countries where they come from, but 'cause it's the best, biggest profit, because they are the good sponsors, because if Misetic's family is the head of T-Com, if then, and she is the chief adviser, means Misetic Dynasty, to me the prime minister has not answered the question, here is the representative, so the prime minister tells me why the teleppers in the Republic of Croatia don't behave like in countries where they come from, he didn't answer, the words't get an answer in writing form, here for a year. Mishetic Dynasty is ruled by Angela McCall,.../incomprehensible/... Angela Merker, it's because of the telecommunications, the affection of Angela to this Tajani fascists exclusively economics must not be declared. The fact that he said that Dalmatia is Italian Istria will be easy for you to do so, it is important that he votes for the Council of Europe to be this secretary, Pejcinović Buric, who is more of this little reputation counsellor who was in Belgrade. It is important, and it does not matter the protection and equality of all in the EU, Doctor Kirin. Look at what our dicks are doing. You've been an ex-law and you've always been, but you've got to be a little more obedient now, but that's the second pair of freaks now. I can't believe that the Republic of Croatia has been brought to this level and the Ministry of Health refuses this without any conversation, acting, right now and here it says we have electromagnetic radiation, the North Pole, the South Pole, the North Pole, that's nature, and this is not natural. Please support all initiatives, support all initiatives you have, which are noble and good. I think this is regardless of which party we're trying to support. At least to be about equal, about equal to the citizens of the EU, Dr. Kirin, now you're talking. You're gonna have to defend this. I know it's neatly written. And I truly respect you as an old-timer, not at the moment, but an old-timer. Here's this picture, look. The kid in the window. You don't see, we're gonna raise you a Boric, and if your kid had this under the window, then we'd be skiing, yawning, don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187630	Thank you. The HDZ Representatives' Club will also be registered to participate in the debate on their behalf by representative Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187631	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, tonight, many have begun their performance in the assembly today by mentioning the crown of the virus, right? And it reminded me of something that was happening in the history of Marko Porcia Caton, Senator of the Roman Senate, all his speeches always began with the same words Cetherum censeo Cartagena esse delendm, among other things I believe that Cartago should be destroyed." But be still citizens and you, the health system is ready, it is organized and will easily defend us against the crown of the virus. And now we're going at this second, it's a protection against non-ionized radiation in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Law on the Protection of Non-ionized radiation, non-ionized radiation are electromagnetic fields, electromagnetic waves that don't possess enough energy to cause ionization. So in Croatia as well as in the whole world, there is a strong increase in the number of devices and plants that produce different types of radiation that do not naturally cause atoms and molecules to interact with matter. Such devices are used in a number of human activities, economy, production, trade, transport, electronic communications, science, defence, medicine and household. Only some of these devices are radar, portable phones, cell phones, microwave ovens, power lines, different antennas, transmitters, solars, health lasers, lasers in the entertainment industry, radio and television receivers, personal computers, diathermic devices in therapy, etc. Electromagnetic radiation represents electromagnetic waves of shorter wavelengths, infrared, ultraviolet, X-ray, gamma radiation, and you mentioned sun radiation. There's a spectrum of the sun that's ionizing so you need to know that. So light is also electromagnetic radiation visible to the human eye, wavelengths 380 to 780 nanometers. One nanometer is a billionth part of a meter. The speed of light is 3x10 per 8 meters per second or just 300 million meters per second. That's the speed for it to travel light years long. Yeah. In addition to the natural sources of electromagnetic fields in the environment we have adapted to evolution, an increasing number of artificial sources of electromagnetic fields of different technical characteristics and different impacts on people and the environment are growing. For the last 10 years, we have witnessed the intense development of wireless communications networks, a competition in the introduction of new mobile services that require increasing and higher data transmission speeds. So by doing so, there is a dramatic increase in the number of mobile phone user devices. It's currently being debated in the world and with us about 5G it's a new generation of mobile frequency networks 3.5 gigahertz, and it's assumed that there's going to be a speed of approximately 26 gigahertz. Slovenia has put the moratorium on the 5G network right now, and there is information that Switzerland has immediately stopped 5G. By increasing the number of sources of non-ionising radiation in the war area and the number of complaints of citizens reporting to the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Health and the construction inspection of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning due to the way the sources of non-ionising radiation are placed in the space. There is no doubt that there are problems in the implementation of the applicable law and specific rules in the area of building a spatial arrangement when it comes to the accommodation of a source in the space of especially antenna pillars and roof reception of mobile phone base stations. It attaches importance to the accommodation of a source of non-ionising radiation into space and in this sense respects the recommendations of the European Parliament Resolution 2011/2008 which requires that, based on the agreement of stakeholders, public authorities and citizens' associations, the criteria for setting up the source of non-ionised radiation to ensure that at least school and pre-school institutions, pensioners' homes and health institutions are as low as possible and at a specific distance from the source. Among other things, I will mention the position of the World Health Organization, which, on the basis of the results of two years of extensive research conducted in 14 countries by its International Cancer Research Agency, has declared radio frequency, electromagnetic fields potentially carcinogenic to humans. It has also collected and published the results of scientific research through a number of years, in particular a series of thematic issues of environmental issues, with a view to a systematic and reasoned demonstration of possible adverse effects of non-ionised radiation with a recommendation to take protection measures. So these are possible impacts, unproven of what was previously dying, so there was no such radiation, not so much and human life no matter what. The application of the Law on protection against non-ionised radiation covered the professional bases proposed by the World Health Organization and the International Commission for the Protection of Non-ionised Emissions and meets European standards on the protection of public health against non-ionised radiation. These professional bases and standards are incorporated into sublegal regulations relating to the area of non-ionised radiation. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the limits of electromagnetic fields are permitted under the provisions of the Regulation on protection against electromagnetic fields more stringent than the recommendations of the border levels prescribed by the International Commission for Protection against non-ionised radiation. It shall also continue to apply. 8th draft law proposed to add a new Article. 8.a does not comply with the provisions of Article 8.a. 25th century 3. The law on electronic communications which determines that the criteria for the development of electronic communications infrastructure and other related equipment are prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister responsible for electronic communications and with the preliminary acquisition of the opinion of the HERA Council by the Regulation on the criteria for the development of electronic communications infrastructure and other related equipment adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 25(3) of the Law. Other than that in Art. On 14 and 15th of the proposed law of the Living Wall, the bill proposes the establishment of a national coordination body to protect against non-ionised radiation in such a way as to form it as a separate internal establishment unit of the Ministry of Health and to ensure that the costs of the work of the coordinating body are provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. The tasks of the co-ordination body shall also be prescribed, including the preparation of educational and promotional materials resulting from the establishment of a co-ordination body and its work, and shall require the provision of certain financial resources which have not been assessed as well as budgetary positions in the state budget on which those funds would be provided. Further to Art. The 15th draft law states that the new coordinating body, in addition to other tasks, would also produce analyses and reports on the situation in space and the effectiveness of the implementation of the regulations, and would draw up expert bases and give an opinion on the procedures for drawing up spatial plans. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the creation of an analysis and reports of the situation in the area according to the provisions of the Law on Spatial Regulation in the jurisdiction of the bodies performing the professional tasks of the spatial arrangement and therefore the proposed tasks of the coordinating authority are not in line with the provisions of that law. It is also unclear that the coordinating body as the internal establishment unit of the health ministry would consist, inter alia, of representatives of associations in which it is part to promote the protection of people from electromagnetic radiation. It should also be noted that internal establishment units of the ministry do not adopt rules of procedure on their work. Following all of the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on protection against non-ionised radiation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187632	Representative Gordan Maras reported for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187633	Thank you very much. I was a little confused with this last part of the presentation of a respected colleague, Kirin, when he said the government did not accept it because when discussed on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, it is not the government. So it's very dangerous, it's very dangerous when HDZ takes over states it's me and thus takes on attitudes and formalizes attitudes as if it were the government of the Republic of Croatia, which, of course, is not the case. So, we should not be surprised at the fact that in the Croatian Parliament not once in these last 3.5 years, not a single opposition proposal, although many have not been accepted, as good as it is, it cannot satisfy HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic's representatives, that we do something of quality for the citizens, and at the same time in many areas that deserve it, and this is certainly one such area, HDZ is not proposing anything. So, it's like they're responding to a mess in the system. So, it's not right for me, and I don't accept doing it in a gray zone and doing whatever it is you want with the base stations, it's only important that you find someone who rents you real estate so that you build up a base station up there no matter how much it has or doesn't have a foothold in the legal regulations and how much it affects the citizens. I said already in the City of Zagreb there are almost 600 of these stations and every responsible authority and all of us who think and take care of the quality of our citizens' lives would ask ourselves whether anyone, whether or not they control whether these cells are set up in accordance with the legal rules and whether they should be supported by further arrangements. I think the answer to both questions is number one that a lot of these cells are not set because in accordance with the regulations because you can visually view it if there is an obligation to place above the highest building in the area, and that is not how each of our fellow citizens can identify it in the City of Zagreb or in any other part of the Republic of Croatia as far as these cells are not set up in accordance with the regulations. And then the question arises why this is allowed, which is why we allow such a thing, which is why no one controls it, which is why no inspection is competent to warn a breach of the move of stations that are not in accordance with regulations, etc. It's a gray zone, and if we're saying that some countries limit the development of the 5G network, the question is, why doesn't the Republic of Croatia do anything? And on this side I can welcome this bill of the Living Wall, although they would say quite like this without some excessive arguments accusing a party or parties such as the SDP that the populists did not want the citizens well, and at the same time the citizens had the opportunity to see how the Living Wall works and how it fell apart from itself and that because of its petty passions it failed to formulate or any policy that would offer citizens something better, at the end of the time the rating of that party that was a year ago 15% fell to 2% and simply raises the question of which law is then at all to those who will actually be able to settle this area tomorrow. And I can tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia here that we will arrange the area of base stations in a way that the rules are respected and that tomorrow you know very clearly who you can contact if you have any questions and that this service will respond. For example, it would be natural for me to regulate the area in the City of Zagreb, and that, if the law is not true, and the regulations are not complied with to punish those who have placed conscious stations in a way that the law and regulations did not foresee. And that's why it's important who's saying it and what he's saying because tomorrow you'll be able to ask as citizens of those people why, if they haven't done something or commended them if they've done something right. The advantage of Mr. Vucelic from the Living Wall is whatever they say tomorrow, no one will ever call them because they will not be able to apply any of these suggestions. Which does not mean that if some proposals are not good that we will not support them and we will not allow people to see that as representatives in the Croatian Parliament they can propose something and what they can say very openly here and as a party who will be in a position that and did not once happen that in Parliament we have supported both the activities and initiatives of parliamentary representatives. So this is something that we must leave in Croatia, which is that the activities of the parliamentary representatives and their proposals are not at all experienced at the end of the day, I say, once again, no matter how high-quality the initiative was, unless it came from the government's position it is not accepted. And that's why the citizens of the Republic of Croatia often and with these pictures very few MPs in HS do not see the Assembly as an institution where they could achieve some of their own, their own initiative that would be a quality for their lives. What I am very clear once again as a message, that we will arrange this area, that citizens will know the very clear rules by which the base stations must be placed, that we will have very clear, and although I say, and at this point it is possible to predict and, let's say, the Office for Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb should control what is happening in the city of Zagreb, and not do as it has been done in the past few months, that when you see that the disorder in the system, then you are trying to amend the GUP to legalise all that is illegally de facto and illegally and not in accordance with the regulations made in the past few years. So, we need to find a measure between what our fellow citizens expect, which is that they have a quality connection and quality infrastructure and some rules, that is, protection of human health, although the state, and that may, let's say, the Ministry of Health should think about it, when we're already talking about all instruments or all appliances radiating, that some have significant adverse effects on people, and that long-term use, especially children, and today we see that children get phones at 6.7 years old and that they use these phones in excess. And I have two small children myself, and I'm not happy, and we have to, it's always kind of a punishment, which is a paradox, that if you take away their phone for a while, the state should take care of some initiatives, for example, some countries have banned the use of cell phones in schools. So I'd like to get some information from this guy in Croatia, how harmful this is, and how much longer-term use could endanger our children, both with cell phones and other appliances. Let's see what we can do in this area to eventually protect against the negative influences of the future generation. So there's a lot of things that we should discuss. I think that the adoption of this law, or that certain rules that should be passed around the base stations, should be applied absolutely, but the question is how much would these penalties affect those who set base stations without some legal footholds work. So it's no problem to pay someone, if they're making billions of kunas and a fine that's measured in millions of kunas. So I think that it should enable more efficient removal of such cells and allow citizens to be the ones to warn, who will report, and then at the end of the service, I would even say that there should be communal directors who would sort it out within a short period of time and in some way bring laws and spatial planning into those borders that our citizens expect and deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187634	We have two replicas on your exhibit. Representative Vlaovic reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187635	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, neither you nor I nor anyone in this assembly is against new technologies, especially if it goes into the function of raising citizens' standards and supporting the economy. However, you are right when you say that order should be made, that we must all be equal before the law and it is unthinkable that of these 600-thin stations, as you have said, in Zagreb, a good part of them does not satisfy the law, does not satisfy the spatial-planning documentation, however, nothing. Teleopers are owned, profits are out, taxes are paid in some other countries, and we're left with a problem here. Why shouldn't they have, or should they respect spatial-planning documentation and pay for a building permit, as one agricultural producer in Bebrina must pay for the lagoon to take care of barn manure? He can't build such a lagoon without a building permit, and a teleoper can build a base station near the kindergarten. That's why we're not all equal to the law, and that's why this one, there's no trust with the system in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187636	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187637	Thank you very much. So I agree with you, so the rules must exist and must abide by them. But, let's say, what the ministry could do. I don't see why it's not planned, let's say next year in the budget, money for a quality study to be made in the Republic of Croatia. We also have scientific institutions, we also have health institutions that could do this so that we have quality data on the number of base stations, health impact, so it can be implemented over 5 years, so let's see some of the influences that this has on our fellow citizens. Unfortunately, quite often here I see a fellow Bulja who goes to the stands about it, using data that are either from some other countries or in some other period. So, unfortunately, we do not have any more quality information in Croatia so that our citizens can inform about the impact of this all together on their health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187638	Representative Loncar has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187639	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, in your debate, you mentioned spatial plans. Only in spatial plans, where someone wanted to accept it or not, are defined areas where it is allowed to, just a little bit, in order for that to happen, each such station to have a location permit. For a location permit for anyone to get the possibility of setting up certain conditions and based on these conditions and local permits and spatial plans, they actually happen. I agree with you in a small part that there are also those who do not respect the law. But it's also not and it can't be done by a communal director, it can only be done by the state's inspection service. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187640	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187641	Thank you very much. When we talk about spatial plans, they define the space where it can be. But they also define certain conditions under which base stations can be placed. So there are also spatial plans that can define what are the preconditions for putting a base station in a location that is plotted in a spatial plan. Yeah, so it would be good if the State Inspectorate worked. But we can see how Mikulic's State Inspectorate works when we don't have a single application, and we're aware that there are hundreds and hundreds of base stations that have been placed out of line with the regulations. How is that possible? So here's what I'm interested in, and maybe it wouldn't be bad to ask Mr. Mikulic's state inspector to tell us how much surveillance he's done and what he's done about it. Probably nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187642	Thank you. Time's up Representative Maras is out of time [[Because we don't see that one base station...]] Representative Miro Bulj reported for an individual debate. [[Intruder Maras: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187643	Thank you very much. I'm glad that when I came into this House, I was the only one who spoke, and I'm glad that my colleagues of the Living Wall have been very active in the last year. We also see colleague Maras as former minister, here is now a parliamentary representative before the end of the term, and I also see that he is getting a little closer to what I'm saying, what I've been saying all along. Here's the Living Wall I see when the board of my legal proposal for veterans was then your colleague and President Sincic and Mr. Bunjac they also said that what I'm saying is okay. That's when they joined this story. I appreciate it and respect it when people stand behind some ideas that they can push towards solving this problem. I'll just say that from the first moment of 2014, I've been putting the base station under our return window. A man who worked in Australia who invested all his capital at the Joy of Sin. From the window... with his grandkids 10 meters from the window to the unfinished house he's been set up by a base station and since then I've been in this story. In particular, I would like to thank the Croatian Association for protecting electromagnetic radiation, which has helped me greatly to write legal initiatives that I have given mainly to address the problem of building permits. Because it's building permits that have been solved. To return the building permits and give this space 400 meters from the building as it is resolved in Istria, it's different if they don't respect it. In fact, they would reduce this entire risk because 400 meters away from the base cells does not increase significant electromagnetic radiation of the base cells. And I think there should be one alternative to this story that obediently handles everything in the interest of teleoperators who have the gain of distinguished secretaries in the Republic of Croatia teleoperators 42% T-com. His sister's company HT. All over Europe, i.e. The European Union where they work is 20% profit. For what? Because they don't need a building permit. They need to invest in infrastructure, project documentation. They don't have to wait like Austria or Germany for a year, two, three to get licenses. I didn't stop the development, but that there was some order. A little while ago, counterpart Maras mentioned what Andrija Mikulić said. I ask him about this base station, I ask him about this base station where under this little girl's window a base station is made, I haven't seen a bigger one in my life on a bakery chimney. He answers, I ask him if he is in line with the spatial, with the GUP of the City of Sinj, he says, "The Ministry of Health has said that it is within the limits of allowed radiation." I ask him about the spatial plan, about GUP, and he responds that you gave that, here's what you did to the baby and the pregnant woman, see. Who's going to answer? Well, you do, too, so in France, schools are banned from Wi-Fi schools. What's the reason, I don't know. The education ministry also has an obligation to show the film on its website about the harmfulness of Wi-Fi only this phone is my choice, and this is not the choice of this 5-year-old girl and her mother now pregnant young woman. So this is not their choice to be so constantly 24 hours contaminated, impacted by radiation that has not been proven. So in 2013, the World Health Organization says it's a possible cause of cancer, getting cancer is the electromagnetic radiation of the base cells. It's got information. You prove the opposite. Then why in Istria did they say 400 metres of base stations from the construction area? But with us, the whole chaos came because the building permit was lifted, because, nor did the SDP, I'm sorry that Maras had left, I can see that he got close to the attitudes. But I've been giving out colleagues and colleagues here isn't much of us, I've been making a bill that neither the HDZ nor the SDP that the base stations have to be set up to have a building permit like in other countries. And this isn't an attack on telecommunications, on development. But the question is why Brussels, the mayor of Brussels said no to the 5G network. Here's what I'm asking, do you have any information? Brussels is the center of power. Our prime minister is always in Brussels, missing with Brussels that it is the centre of Europe. Why in Switzerland, Geneva and numerous other cities? I'm interested in your reason. Do you have an explanation for what? You don't stop, you know why? Because they think that the safety and health of their inhabitants is more important to them than anything else, and there are many cities that, uh, say no, but if Brussels said so, it seems to me in Bavaria, Geneva, there are many cities that have seen the reasons. So the triba sees the reasons. The teleoperators break the rules and I think that their sentences are small, we have an example in, at Radosic where after three years it was proven, that that base station was placed against all principles, conditions, laws, normal behavior, and that base station, and now it's several times and punished, 70 thousand, 70, every few months, two thousand, but the question is whether at all, whoever broke it, pays the fine, and now he's become a business, here I said a little before, here where this former bakery, where this chimney, is now an industrial zone, there's an industrial zone, there's an open casino, the Ministry of Finance gave him, there's a school nearby here, so, this one, you're created, so... The industrial zone, this government is working now, the only business is gambling, so it's the only industry, the Croatian industry and the base stations with the windows of young people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we must be careful, you as a representative of the Ministry of Health, I believe that the Tribals would take certain steps to see why in other countries base stations are being set up in another way, which is why in the European Union, but only because of equality. Once again, here I called you, I said you came down from my corners the distinguished secretary, the stands about base stations and health risks of radiation, you're invited, here you can come,... If necessary, and I will bring you to Sinj, Sinj, I have Trogir now, Iman, for what?, not what I want, but people want, people are afraid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So me from Trogir, if I show you from Trogir memos of people, young families in the center of Trogir base station, today you have in the Free article in Dubrovnik, afraid young people in the new settlement of Dubrovnik,... In the middle of the settlement, the base station, people are afraid, you must inform these people, and you must protect them, and inform them of what the European Union requires, always the caution and safety of citizens above all else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, first of all, the safety of citizens and health. Why health, don't you agree? There's nothing more important than the health care of our citizens. However, we have nothing left but to fight, to fight, here I have said, when I entered this House four years ago, in 2016, when I first mentioned that I needed building permits, that the tributaries were acting like in their own countries, the cover was screaming Stop Bulja, they would bring us back to the Stone Age, then I had no supporter, and already, here you see the Living Wall giving, so it was accepted anyway last year on the Committee. I again thank the people who are industrious and who will come to Sinj, and Mrs Ankica Kosovec Krželj, President of HUZEZ, also thank the gentleman, Mrs Maja Očko, Tony Šunjic, Roberta Markusic, and many other people who point out that they are not in politics, which point to irregularities and what can happen, and illegalities, and dangers, and risks that you as the Ministry should be concerned about setting up base stations or ionising radiation, non-ionizing radiation. I think Secretary that you've seen, state, you've seen this base station by the window... And tell me openly, I would give you, which you would if this were your child, here's the girl, here's the column, the chimney of the former bakery, and there's 15-ac, 20 base stations on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And imagine when a mother, who is young, a husband... I think she's so nervous, so much so she has, when she sees this base station and her kid, you can't believe it, and my wife tells me she hasn't thought about it so much before she comes under her window and now she's afraid for her health and the safety of her children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to move these things away for the safety of our residents' health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187644	Will it? Here you are, Mr. Plazonic, on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187645	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, I only came forward to express the truth about what the Ministry of Health has done so far in terms of education and generally speaking about electromagnetically. We, on our websites that we have for years, have quite one comprehensive text bearing the title of the Communication of the Ministry of Health with the population of the Republic of Croatia regarding the impact of electromagnetic fields on human health. Among other things in that text are in one... He also finds the educational video that we've created, and he's talking about the harmfulness of the use of mobile phones, phones in small children and children in general, and there's also a copy of the brochure that we at the Ministry have printed and shared with schools, and kindergartens to educate everyone, from parents, those who work in their aunt's kindergartens, to, to and from children themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as other matters are concerned, and since I'm surprised that my countryman, as you say, Mr Bulj, who is from Sinj, has so many problems in Sinj, and you're such an active parliamentary representative, so I don't understand it, you know that I am from Vrlica, we don't have such problems in Vrlica by setting up various base stations, where, in your opinion, they're no place, and I wouldn't want this whole discussion to end and it only comes down to the question of base stations because the base stations in themselves do not imply a relationship to human health, but to some economic and financial interests. As for this picture that you keep showing me, and you're still saying what you'd do if it was your diet, so now I have to tell you that it's my granddaughter I would consider it one time I'd say a terrible abuse of child's integrity for political-populistic purposes, so I'd probably sue you for it. Because it's not allowed under any law for children to be used for these purposes. If there is a problem, it can be solved at adult level, not at child level. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187646	Representative Bulj has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187647	I'd ask you one more time, you're asking your colleague if you're okay. Are you ashamed? This picture came out in the media. I didn't take this. This picture is in the media where a mother who's 10 meters pregnant 20 days ago was set up a base station and you're telling me that I have the right to talk about it. Because this mother is calling me and she's asking us to organize the stands, to meet the citizens because she didn't know this was going to happen to us either. And you're saying that shame on me and on Sinj's problems. So that you do Sinj... The problem in Vrlica, that you left Vrlika and when you crossed Knin you forgot that you were from Vrlika because many of you were from Vrlika and Cetinski region, from Sinj when you left you didn't mention it. [[You don't understand.]] I happen to find out that you're from Vrlika. Do you know what the health system is like in Vrlica? Do you know what he's like in Sinjo? Do you know that women die in ranks without rengen, that it's been broken for two months, that we don't have a radiologist, that we don't have a pediatrician? Instead of four, we have one, and he's asked if he'll go out. Don't do anything at all for your end. ... You're your end. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187648	Thank you. Time's up, Representative Bulj. [[And this is a shame that the lady sent me this picture.]] Representative Bulj, time's up. Representative Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187649	Dear Secretary of State, please try to explain this. So at the time when the Ministry of Health issues brochures on the harmfulness of neonizing radiation, at the same time the base stations are placed on the roofs of the Medical Hospital Center of Dubrava and seems to me in the courtyard of Vrapce Hospital and that means the base stations are being careful without the applicable permission that the Ministry of Health has left in operation and they are contrary to the Law on Spatial Plans. Tell me how it's possible. So I'm saying it one more time. At the same time, you issue a brochure on harmfulness, and you poison your own patients, please try to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187650	The answer to the line, Mr. Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187651	The explanation is very simple. We didn't give the brochure about the damage to the base cells, we gave it to the cell damage and the base cell damage. It's not the same. It's not the same, Mr. Bull. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's as different as heaven and earth. And on the other hand, we have standards for electromagnetic radiation of base stations that are two and a half times stricter than European normatives, so you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187652	Thank you. Please, MPs, you've had a chance to speak. On behalf of the promoter, the closing statement will be delivered by MP Damjan Vucelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187653	The honourable MPs who still stayed here Thursday at 3:00, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Chairman. The living wall is proud of this bill. I'm proud of this bill. I will defend this law until my last drop of blood because this law is in the interest of citizens. We are convinced that this law is harmful to the public, to our people, that it is not in our interests. The secretary of state is leaving right now, so he didn't have the dignity or obey me until the end because I wanted to address him because the last sentence he said in this assembly was a lie. What they're doing, be assured they're not doing in your interests. They do it in their own interests, in foreign interests. All major companies in Croatia have been sold. All major companies are owned by foreign companies. Teleopers have billions of profits and they, I think, under HDZ but also their people at the Ministry of Health, the Secretary of State himself works in their interests, and I know that these people work for their salary to do what they're told to do. But these people kill people with their own actions. Dear Secretary of State, please don't get used to this, please get out of the assembly and don't argue. I would beg the chairman to warn you Please, I'm being distracted by the Secretary of State. [[Intruder Petrov: Please proceed with your exposure.]] Give it this way, my fellow citizens and HDZ, and neither the SDP cares about your health nor your interests as already proven. [[Intruder Petrov: No one bothers you anymore.]] In the past, the government's decisions are not in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Me and my colleagues in the Living Wall have been warning that for five years. These people sitting in this House will tell you one thing today, tomorrow they will speak to you. They'll behave differently, act exactly the opposite of what they used to say when they were so-called. opposition in this House. I just want to tell you that these people here today, and there are those who convinced you today that non-ionizing radiation is not harmful. If it wasn't harmful from the base stations themselves, I'd plant people like that on every corner of their house one base station 50 meters away as they work. Here's my colleague Bully said there's even a small one, 10 meters away. I'd put four of those antennas in there and I'd plant them there and see if those people who now convince us that they're not dangerous to have these radiations that these people sleep through one night in their own home. I assure you you wouldn't. But it's not them because there are no base stations in their neighborhoods, they took care of it. It's the problem that they're doing to you. They're trying to make the teleopers billions. And why is that? So one of them would pursue a political career either in Brussels or pursue political careers in Croatia. It's real reality and truth. Some of them will, of course, in all that i.e. A good part of them in the whole process and they're gonna put some money in their pockets. In Croatia, it is not legal lobbying as in the European Parliament. But that's why they put money in their pocket under the table. And be assured that's what's happening. You set up some business, you set up business for companies and their relatives, cousins, cousins, none of it matters. But they put that money in their pocket. And in the end, as a consequence of all that, we have people dying. So these aren't harmless laws. As a result of their decisions, someone will die of cancer in maybe 20 or 30 years. Now they're dying. I already mentioned we're on top of cancer diagnostics, tumors. The same weave we are in Europe for mortality. And we have a clean country, a beautiful land. Clean water, clean ground, clean air. So where did all the crabs come from? From where? It had to come from somewhere. Is it food, is it water, is it non-ionizing radiation, is it burning Bandić's garbage on Jakushevec every year deliberately burning where it poisons citizens of New Zagreb and Zagreb in general. So you have to be aware that all these people don't work in your interest, they don't. They're just looking at how to squeeze you out, how to turn you around, how to get as much money as possible from you the poorest with the lowest incomes. He's got the most of you. He'll take the most of you. They also don't care how you live when you retire, whether you have food or watch you buy a gun and a bullet with your last pension, with the last 800 kuna because you don't have food, you don't have a director, you don't have a flat. Do you think they care if you die from electromagnetic fields of non-ionizing radiation? They don't care. They don't care if you eat poison food. They don't care what kind of water you drink, whether it's polluted with feces, whether it's poured out because of the weary net as it may be in Zagreb and mixed with drinking water with fecal waters, they don't care. And to keep doing it like these today on both sides will convince you of something else. You're looking at it all and you're thinking watch this man speak wisely and wisely must be true. That's not true. They're selling you fog. Then when they come to power or when they are in power, they continue the same. I'm very interested in whether the SDPs will support this proposal to amend the Law on non-ionizing radiation, and I'm very interested. But if he's taken what you think will be different when they come to power? He won't. It'll be the same. It's identical. They may even be worse than HDZ. I think that's easily possible. They implement the same policies and will implement the same policies. Nothing's gonna change. And I don't trust them at all. And you shouldn't trust them either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187654	Representative Loncar has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187655	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, I only answered because I feel hurt like a man when you stand out and put everything in the same package. I am and I belong to HDZ, but I know what they do in my midst and I know how to take care of people, and I know how to protect these people, and I know how to create conditions for people to stay in my territory. And that's why I won't do much about your opinion, but I ask you in the future when you say such things that you don't put everything in the same basket because believe in the territory of the Republic of Croatia you have a lot of benevolent, working and honest people and we're not all the same. If you already know any of them, I'm asking you to name them. But don't put everyone in the same basket again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187656	Replication response by MP Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187657	I respect your opinion and you may be right. Maybe there are honest people in HDZ? If there are, there are few. But you know what the problem is? The problem is that honest HDZ cannot reach the Parliament at all. I was already in the Parliament here saying that I think HDZ is a mob organization and I think it's a mob organization. And let me know if it's possible for anyone in a mob organization to get into Parliament at all, for example, an honest man. Well, he'd be a problem for them himself. Well, they wouldn't let themselves put on the list of honest men at all. I say that there is a possibility that this could happen and that a truly honest man would be on the HDZ list and enter this House and be a representative. But these are individual cases. There's very few of them. Maybe you're one of them, I don't know. But there are few of you. There's a few of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187658	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll get back to work tomorrow. The first item will be the Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection rules and repealing Regulation No 2006/2004, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 844. Thank you. SESSION Interrupted at 15.08
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-27-0.u187659	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on protection against non-ionising radiation, first reading, P.Z. Number 678. The promoters are representatives of Snježana Sabolek and Damjan Vucelic, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for that law is not accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 74 for, 2 abstentions and 10 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support, first reading, P.Z. Number 570. The proposer is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support is not adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for and 18 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
