ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u9633	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. There aren't many of us, but I hope we fill in. I'd like to do it first on the basis of an article. 247. The HS Rules of Procedure proposed the implementation of a joint debate on the following six points: - Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kosovo, - Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the activities of the permanent NATO Group of Mine Forces 2 - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland in the Peace Operation "EUNAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA", - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the UN Armed Forces. Is anyone against this proposal? No, I therefore find that we will conduct a united debate on these proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u9709	Mr. Domagoj Prica will be the positions of the House Representatives' Club, no, the SDP, I apologize, I apologize, please be my guest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u9710	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In the next 2021. We are expected by the census of households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia. The census is one of the most important matters of the state for which it gives the most basic insight into population and country data. The census was made in Croatia for the first time in 1857, and the importance of the census is best said that the United States has been leading the world's most powerful census since the end of the 18th century. American, as well as Croatian lists, lists and lists of other countries talk a lot about these countries at that historic moment when they were implemented. It is important for the census to tell us about different data, from the number of residents, population density in the country or part of it, average age of the population, degree of education, size of households, economic activity, main elections, sources of means of life, place of education or work and many other information. By keeping such data, the state shows that it is serious and shows that it is arranged. In addition to learning from the list the number of inhabitants in Croatia, we see movements over decades, as well as the number of inhabitants by regions, counties, cities and municipalities of Croatia. It is easy to see demographic movements, emigration and immigration, as well as migration within the country. We also gain insight into the quality of life in our country. This is the information about the ownership of apartments, the type and use of housing units, the type of installation in the apartment, whether there is sewerage, plumbing, electricity, and years of building a housing unit. Although it may seem dry, the information obtained is an indicator of the social status of our citizens and the rights of images of Croatian reality. The list also tells us about the degree of education in Croatia, the economic strength, it is an important factor that shows at least trends and interprets what needs to be improved. Unfortunately, part of the last list carried out in April 2011 They've been posted late. Part of the data was published within a few months, while part of the data was waiting for more than a year. The following list and results will be indicators in which our society is heading regardless of whether we are satisfied with these indicators or not. In order to be serious in front of our citizens, it is important that the state bodies act in a timely manner. I therefore hope that the next list will organise, that the next list will organise data processing in a way that all data, not only part of the data, will be processed, published and made available as soon as possible. Therefore, it is essential not only to organise the census well but also to organise timely data processing after a census has been carried out so that the public with the census data is informed as soon as possible because the data become relative in time, they lose value as time moves away. I hope that the collection and processing of the next census of households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia will be as high as possible and information available to the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u9711	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mr Tomislav Tomašević, who will be the position of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u9791	First of all, I want to say that what my colleague was saying was absolutely okay with me. And I guess there's gonna be a theme where we talk about what happened yesterday at HS, and there's been a lot of stuff going on. But okay, I'll go back to the topic I prepared for free speech. So I want to talk a little bit about something that's been talked about these days, and that's the Sljemen vest. 13 unfortunate years, meaning 13 unfortunate years The City of Zagreb which new cable company or at least repairs the old one. The HDZ as a coalition partner to Milan Bandic in the last five years has put the coalition with Milan Bandic into implementation of the project. And so, thanks to HDZ, this wire has become the most expensive wire in all of Europe. I will give one example, the HDZ at the end of 2016, Bandic conditioned support for the 2017 budget by increasing only 10 million kuna in the wire budget to 40 million kuna and then Bandic was broad-handed and said, well here I will give 50 million kuna to the budget in order to reduce those 50 million kunas to five million kuna at the end of the year and HDZ voted again. Then next year for 2018, he put as much as 150 million kunas in the cabler's realisation budget and then HDZ said thanks to our amendment being accepted as 150 million kunas for the cabler we will support the budget and the budget has passed. That same year, of course, the rebalancing rate would first decrease to 128 million kuna, and then be reduced to six million kunas. And nothing again. And then the works start in 2019 pompously, Bandic takes the buffer to dig up the pit, hopefully his political pit and move the works without the money being secured at all. So the work starts, a contract is signed with the GIP Pioneer, without providing money anywhere in the budget or in the EU funds. Now we know why the money was not secured in the eu funds, we saw it on the example of the student campus where the money should be returned because the competition for Todorovic Agrokor was being set up, and now we see why no money was asked for because then it couldn't be pulled out of the same project outside. The project was made, we saw everyone who was obviously made by someone on the inside, clearly seen in the video all the documents, all the costs, the Ministry's inspection records, the surveillance footage, everything is clear when the day served for USKOK as a result of the 89 million kuna of city money that I am fully convinced will be used for Milan Bandić's election campaign. So the same GIP Pioneer company that built the building where Bandic has the penthouses in which he lives was the contractor here. They gave the lowest bid of 300 million kunas of three bids that arrived, the initial estimate was 250 million kuna, they gave out of 300 million kuna, the most expensive bid was 389 million kuna, they got the job and then the annexes of the contract that Bandic signed with 300 again increased the works to 389. How? Here's an example, they were digging a construction pit at the lower station of the cable car was supposed to cost what was an integral part of the coster, an integral part of the contract less than a million kuna. The soil of the C category where it should be neither partial nor complete mining, the simple excavation of the baggers, the surveillance cameras are all recorded, all phases of work every day and it is seen that there was no mining, but then a change in the cost and increase of that item from a million to 11 million kuna because it was claimed that a hard ground could not be made differently by digging a cave without partial and complete mining, means the ground of A and B categories. The economy ministry's record, which was created at the same time as the contract annex signed by Bandic, claims that there is a category C soil and that's the supervision of the works, the company that was doing the surveillance of the works signed and was present there. It means clear as day to draw money. But this isn't just about getting the money out, it's also about the safety of the citizens, given how much the work went down, and that's what it says in the auditor's findings. USKOK launched a video-based investigation and our criminal charges, so far the institutions have not done their job, if nothing else, I believe that citizens will eventually do the job by the end of the next local elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u9792	Thank you. Now we're going to continue the debate. And now we're moving on to making a point on behalf of the Representatives' Club and the Independent Representatives' Club, not Mrs. Boric, it's one hour, we have to, we have a stand. The first is Mr Milanović Litre. Yes, yes, yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u9882	Thank you, dear vice president of the assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. A few weeks ago, I was called a friend from Osijek, a family caterer, with the usual conversation about daily life, and we came to the topic of work. Of course, like all guests in Croatia, there was no good news. He tells me Marco's people are scared.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u9883	Please forgive Mr. litre, stop the chronometer, please, it's out there, it can't be disturbed, please, please stop, we've stopped, we've stopped, we've stopped, we've stopped, we've stopped. There you go. In the beginning, at the beginning, put it at the beginning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u9884	Thank you, dear vice president of the assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. A few weeks ago, I was called a friend from Osijek, a family caterer, with the usual conversation about daily life, and we came to the topic of work. Of course, like all hosts in Croatia today, there was no good news. He told me Marco, people are scared, we stick to all the recommended measures, but there's just no job, and now I see they've raised our minimum wage. So how am I supposed to pay my minimum wage with all the monthly obligations I have, and there's no job, I barely survive like this. We agreed that we couldn't change much because as things stand, the headquarters and the government of the Republic of Croatia in coordination are conducting our lives. They decide who can work, when and under what conditions. But what we can and must do is point to all the problems of our citizens as a consequence of government decisions and state institutions. Still called me another friend, my generation, recently engaged, trying to buy an apartment, stay in Croatia, live here, create and fight for your future and the future of your future family. He's also a caterer. Mother, father, sister and he depend on the business of a rented coffee shop of 40m2 in the western part of the town of Zagreb, in which they are more than 30 years old. Their work has survived all governments to date, both HDZ and SDP, but if their relationship with the caterers and entrepreneurs does not change, this government could cost them dearly. The family I've been talking about for the last 30 years. It works, creates, employs, contributes to all of us and ensures themselves a normal and dignified life. Yesterday's announcements about the introduction of the strictest epidemiological measures since the spring lockdown for them and their business will have inconceivable consequences. The new lockdown, which is supposed to last until Christmas Eve, and today they said by December 21st, will not be affected only for the next month. The impact and consequences of these measures will be felt by the guests until at least the next tourist season if not longer. You who work in state institutions must understand that every caterer and entrepreneur has fixed costs or cold drive that must settle every month radio he or she does not. First of all, they must think about their employees, their salaries, rent, electricity, water, water, gas, economic chamber, ZAMP, HRT, municipal compensation, concession if they have terraces, more than 20 parafiscal duties and who knows how much more costs I haven't mentioned. The cause of the announcement of such rigorous measures towards the caterers is arbitrary. Except for nightclubs, I don't remember any article or news mentioning that the focus of the infection was a cafe and a restaurant. And believe me, they weren't. There is neither evidence nor research to confirm it, which would trigger such measures against the caterers. A large majority of them adhere to prescribed epidemiological measures, although they have drastically reduced their business. I am responsible for telling you that they all care about their guests and friends who come to their institutions. Taxes paid by caterers are the largest in Europe and while other European countries reduce taxes that are far more favourable than ours, our government is not even considering such a thing. The hosts have been urging you since September to provide them with favourable loans to bridge this crisis. Not subsidies, not sharing money, but a loan that the caterers will pay you back. They can't get their own money from the banks because no bank wants to lend money to the hosts who have a sword hanging over their heads. The new measures that will further make their business impossible do not want them because their business is at risk because of your decisions. But they are not just threatened by business plans, their private lives are also at stake. The friend I mentioned can't raise a loan for the apartment, not because it has no conditions, but because banks are skeptical of those who work, who are employed in the sector. To make the matter quite clear, you have created the conditions for a young person who wants to live and work in Croatia to question himself, his profession and his future in the Republic of Croatia at the moment. Croatian sovereigns expect the government to monitor all restrictive measures that prevent normal business and aid measures just like those carried out by Germany or Austria where they will make up for business from the same period last year with 50% to 70% of traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u9885	Thank you, too. Now it's really the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club and Mr. Stephen Nikola Bartulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u10022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, in this debate on the replacement of Minister Ćorić, we heard from, the main message in fact of Prime Minister Plenkovic's victory in the elections, so every attempt to change this matter is in vain and it doesn't matter what the opposition thinks because they won. The same question that I asked in the replica mentioned by the way to Belarus and that I didn't grow up there but in the West I know how to tell the difference between America and Belarus, but I see that this country has a special itch. However, I would say something again about what I see as an inaccessible policy of this government. So, we are talking these days about the Executive Law, about a large number of blocked citizens, many say this as a reason to leave Croatia, obviously they have no exits, and the government has kept repeating that it wants to help these people. At the same time, we have this case with an affair of a wind power plant where one company is due from the age of 14. guarantees a high electricity price. So, on the one hand, citizens fail to pay their regular costs, directors and the like, and on the other hand, the government is increasing the price of this same energy and making it difficult for these same people. It's incoherent, it doesn't go together. I will repeat once again that citizens slowly realize that the state budget has over 28,000 items and, of course, exists in every government, not just this one, the phenomenon that is not rationally managed by our resources, is too big to attack that the position of power is misused and helps certain people. So, unfortunately, that's what it looks like with us, is some stepmother, some mother, and it won't change for sure until we have this budget with 28,000 items that we MPs should have studied in a short time to discuss next year's budget. But he would say something about that management. So we still have due to government inaction, monopoly, state monopoly on the health system. I claim that every monopoly makes bad decisions for its users and in time necessarily abuses that position, unfortunately every monopoly. And so the HZO and the way our health care works. And 25 billion kunas isn't enough, there are new debts, it's not a question of money, but in what way it's being spent and we see that actually the system is now under these extraordinary circumstances in, in a very difficult state and we shouldn't be surprised. In addition, we have a public sector where, in fact, only doctors and nurses are leaving, so people in the public sector are well insured, their salaries, let's say, are safe, but those who may be doing the hardest under these conditions, the hardest work, and I will repeat, they fight with this pandemic well, and I am taking off a hat to nurses and doctors who are fighting for each patient, but unfortunately the facts show that they are leaving Croatia because obviously this system is not even encouraging, it does not reward excellence, it does not reward those best, we have what we have. It's always like that when the state manages, with everything. And we're still listening to the public that health services should be free of charge. They're not free, they cost at least 25 billion if they don't have any more kunas. And in the end, I'd say the situation is getting harder and this is coming up now because of years and years of delaying the necessary reforms. who are in tongues and are not in action. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u10077	The presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will be Mrs. Maria Selak Rasudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u10078	As I walk toward this honorable speaker, I still think about how fortunately I dress today, because if it had been a different day, for example, if I had thought to put on a short skirt, it might have been a provocation and it would have been a provocation that would justify any violent act from someone who would have understood it that way. Did you know that the woman your husband beat up was just supposed to get married better? Are you more clear on what I'm talking about right now? What can we connect this to? So all I'm telling you about is that when a woman is wearing a minima that she's guilty or if she gets beat up that she should have been better married, the message that came from the highest seat in the assembly yesterday came from the vice president of the Sanader Assembly, who told Honorary Assembly representative Hajdukovic that the fact that he was the victim of violence was supposed to be better to choose society. Imagine, it's not the perpetrator's fault. It's the victim who didn't choose his society well enough. To make things more paradoxical and cynical, he said that on the day of the fight against violence. And we didn't react enough to that fact. A message was sent from the highest place, the most important place in the country by a person who was then in charge of managing that same place that the victims were guilty of crimes. I wonder what Mr. Sanader thought at that point? How exactly did he think that he had a political point that maybe his right hand would clap because some left-handed guy got beat up? Mr. Sanader, people in this country don't share on the left and right when we talk about the settlement. They're divided into perpetrators, they're divided into victims, they're shared into primitives, and they're divided into those who aren't. And moreover, I'm not just gonna call you Mr. Sanader. Where are you honored with Prime Minister Plenkovic, the esteemed European Prime Minister Plenkovic, could you perhaps explain to the French people what you think of this scandalous, and I would say the sexist outburst of your vice president, Sanader? Because I'm just curious were he dared tell a woman the same thing? What did he perhaps think that Mr. Hajdukovic as a man must bear such a comment as the beatings, or that I will not assume, that those who are different sexual orientations should suffer in a different way an act of violence, or that we may enjoy that they suffer violence, and then we will all give free speeches, moralize violence, and say that we all as a community advocate that we have a single political consensus in the fight against violence? Where are you respected by European Prime Minister Sanader? Another thing I'd like to point out, and it happens to us every day when we come to this assembly is to walk past cops. You know, it's those cops who've been watching us lately because we were potential victims of terrorism, a terrorist that was named before the investigation itself was over. We reacted more quickly to protect ourselves as the most important institutions in the country. And when and when are we going to react to protect these same cops who are currently keeping us under inadequate conditions, for a salary of neither 5,000 kuna, which are currently frozen, and temperatures are going down? Well, ladies and gentlemen, every ham with cooked wine and sausages has a heater, and our officers who take care of our safety there are frozen every day, while we spend five minutes with them on that cold coming to our warm high homes. So if we were already so quick to protect ourselves that we could at least give a minimum of dignity in the conduct of their duties, and also so that we could restore the minimum of dignity in this House so that we would no longer listen to the vice presidents of the session-leading Parliament, while at the same time justify violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u10108	Now it is Mr. Silvano Hrelja's turn that will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u10109	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We had a major economic crisis in 2008. The greatest burden of this crisis has been borne by the real sector. In combination with other phenomena such as eviction over a period of several years, more than 200,000 jobs were lost. We now have a health economic crisis and yet the biggest victim is asked by entrepreneurs and workers in the private, real, manufacturing sector. The divided society is still breaking down. Once again, most of the burden is on one part of society, one that creates a new value and provides services on the market. Whoever follows this, the work of this high house knows that I often mention the social state and solidarity, as well as the fight against poverty. The social state, my dears, is using its powers and resources to correct all social injustices resulting from the functioning of the market. What if the state itself is causing these phenomena, negative phenomena on the market? What if the measure adapts to events, when measures are not respected by the authorities themselves, what do we do now? No social, remember, no social state without a productive state. We can't ask the same taxes, taxes, impositions and fees from the people who are banned from work by decree, from the man you tied your legs to asking for a marathon to run. It's illogical, it's impossible. At this time of health economic crisis, we cannot increase the net wages to those who already have the highest wages, nor have I asked for it, nor will I ever vote for such a relationship. When we talk about solidarity, we think about the solidarity of young people to the elderly, healthy to the sick, rich to the poor, but also solidarity to the safe or at least to those who feel that way about the insecure. Selective solidarity is not solidarity but the oppression of one group at the expense of another. It's a ghastly silence as workers and entrepreneurs move the ground under their feet. Know that income cuts do not suffer fixed expenditures. Let's go to our headquarters. In addition to unfortunately losing credibility because of frequent changes in attitudes and political adjustment, the impression is that measures are created, sought, promoted and celebrated by people whose income and life will not change much by applying these measures. That's why they're so vague and so sudden. The measures must have a measure, remember, the measures must have a measure. To be based on verified data, uniform, precise and fair. We can't be company come on come on come on come on come on come on come on come on come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, 'cause no one has eaten from an empty pot. We must be a society of work and creation. And when our cities fell, we worked and created grenades. They say health measures will also follow appropriate economic measures. I think they have to come in the package. At the same time, citizens who work, pay rent, loans and citizens who are employed must be given a plan that they can expect in 3 months, 6 months. We can't assume the movement and the strength of the virus, of course, but we can assume what kind of measures a man who's forced to have no income for 2-3 months or more. The environment from the EU country needs to be monitored, but it is too important to design its own measures stemming from our figures and epidemiological and economic. And while we're following others, we're following them better. Our dear Germany takes care of the health of its citizens, as well as their jobs. Shutting down jobs was also followed by compensation for losses. Not all hosts also own the facilities they work in, pay high rents. Is there a willingness to make up for these costs or to get rid of rents because of the Covid-19 situation and the labour ban? We can't go through the crisis like geese through the fog. Taking responsibility in this place and in the assembly means putting your heads together and looking for the best solutions. Let's be responsible for everyone, be responsible for the elderly, the workers on certain, craftsmen and students. I stand for it, and I think it would. that our citizens hailed. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u10110	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17350	And now we would like to make a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 69. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the SDP Representatives' Club, the IDS Representatives' Club, the Green-left Blocks' Club, the representative Marin Miletic, the representative of Katarina Peović, the Advocacy Bridge Club of Independent Lists. The amendment was submitted by electronic means. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, the Honorable Josip Salapic State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration. First, the first amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17351	Amendment 1 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17352	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. 2nd Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17353	Amendment No. 2 is not accepted. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law has left the Institute of Predictable Costs and only the actual costs incurred are compensated, and the proposed solutions on the rejection of costs due to non-compliance or are too high in view of the purpose of costs or are too undefined and do not contribute to legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17354	The bloc's representative is gone, so we'll have to vote on that. 3rd Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17355	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law has left the Institute of Predictable Costs and only the actual costs incurred are compensated, and the proposed solution is too undefined and does not contribute to legal certainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17356	Representative Peovic doesn't have any, so we'll have to vote on that. 4. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17357	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17358	It's becoming an integral part. 5. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17359	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17360	6th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17361	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17362	7th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17363	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal shall be covered by the provisions of Art. 1st proposal and has been regulated by the provisions of the Law on Procedural Procedure and Electronic Communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17364	On behalf of the counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17365	We accept the refusal, already covered by the earlier amendment 6. HDZ's what we suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17366	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote? ... So you're withdrawing the amendment. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So Amendment No. Seven is withdrawn. 8th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17367	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed solution is too undefined and does not contribute to legal certainty, since there must be a legal basis for the regulation of the form.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17368	In the name of the Green-Left bloc club, the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17369	Here's the first thing I have to say is that I really don't think it's right to change the agenda within 12 hours. So, you changed your agenda from last night to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17370	The agenda hasn't changed at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17371	This wasn't a vote today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17372	It was announced last night.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17373	We're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17374	Okay. Amendment No. 9 Advocacy Club of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17375	Amendment No. Nine won't be accepted. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17376	Take it easy, please don't throw it out of the bench. Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy's representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17377	Your Honor, Vice President. And this shows what your relationship to the opposition is, we're constantly handing out our hand, we're giving our amendments, we're making our proposals, we've given them to the Executive Act, even though 150 amendments have been refused by the Mosta Club, every man with any spine, with any self-respect that anyone refuses 150 amendments, would say why would you ever do this again, I won't send any more amendments. But we have Croatian citizens ahead of us, ahead of some pride and injury, we have again given you amendments to this poor executive law to try to fix it a little bit, and what do you do? In the evening, change the agenda, although here we are thank God here we are fully present representatives of the Mosta, even more than predicting these epidemiological measures of yours. We ask that the clubs be consulted because the way you run HS and will and the haughtiness you show deserves a sharp and serious answer. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17378	You'll take a break, of course, this point was announced last night at the end of the session... All the MPs are expected to be here, you always say you're working hard, you're doing a lot of work. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're all here, I expect everyone knew about that point because it was announced. [[I'm here all the time.]] It was also published at the Parliament station, therefore, it was all quite clear. I've been taking a break since... Here you go, dear representative Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17379	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club. So it's not just that you announced it from last night to the day, but that, our materials came to us today also, in the morning and I don't understand how you think that we as advocates can be prepared from last night, after we've had the debate all day and for the changed agenda for this morning. So you know that you don't get it, but you're getting it because, because none of you read it, it doesn't matter to you. It's only important for you to come here possibly to sit down, vote out as your boss told you. Some of us like to get and read materials. It's not right, yesterday you were extremely rude to my colleague and today you continue with this, with this way of holding a session, I must say that the other vice presidents and presidents of the Parliament really don't hold a session in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17380	So you know what materials you have submitted, and We have debated them. Oh, we're only discussing the materials you submitted. ... [[Intruder: Looking for materials for the session...]] My colleague, let's get this straight for everyone and the public. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] These are your amendments, you prepared them. There are no other materials. There are no other materials down there than those you prepared, therefore, you probably know what you are, the remarks you made.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17381	Tell me, are we the only ones who put the amendments? Are we the only ones? What materials did we get on the mail this morning? [[/Intruder: What?]] What materials did we get on the mail this morning? Amendments of all. That's what we got. Is that okay to send half an hour ago? [[/Intruder: So but which materials? What materials?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17382	Take it easy. What materials could you get... Down with what you wrote? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you wrote the amendments. ... But it's not, it's your amendments, you've made them, so I guess you know what you wrote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17383	But I want my colleagues to know the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17384	Oh, good. Whatever. Uh, uh... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17385	But it's not just ours, it's common.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17386	Okay, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, let's work calmly, let's function normally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17387	There's a fellow Bull before me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17388	... Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Bulj, here you are. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17389	Yeah. Thank you very much. You have injured, Honorable Chairman, the entire Rules of Procedure because you are turning the Croatian Parliament into robots, best to order 76 robots here and raise your hand, and you are not even listening to us or calling or making any of these suggestions to make fun of the amendments to the opposition di you lie that we are not present at the session, and we are present all the time, we are most of the opposition, and this time you have really broken the entire Rules of Procedure You mock the Croatian people, [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] You mock this House and you turn this House into [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Raiser's arm. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17390	Please sit down. Of course it wasn't a broken Rules of Procedure. Here you are, the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17391	Dear Vice President, since you need an additional explanation to understand what you've done, I'll try to simplify it for you. So our deputies came here to discuss the points that you predicted. For example. Our representative Miletic, who has an individual amendment today, shouldn't have discussed sending our army on various missions, because he thought today he wasn't defending that amendment he referred to in the Implementing Law, and you are now because you announced it last night. taken away our representative's right [[Thank you, thank you. Thank you very much.]] to explain his amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17392	No right has been taken from anyone, anyone can be here defending their amendments in any way. ... Dear Representative Boric, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17393	I'm sorry, the fact that all your sitting here had information. We're just looking for the scale of the information. A good custom in this House was, at least yesterday at the end, I was here until the last second, to announce that today is it. You can't say that at midnight post on pages, notice the change. We were preparing today to discuss peace missions. They're all from the Green Block. But at half past ten, we only came to two colleagues who would talk about peace missions. My colleague Bencic stayed there. You called her first. She didn't make it. From, how do you think that's democratic? How do you think we don't have to be It's just you doing it. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17394	Dear colleague Boric, you said yourself, you were here until the end of the session. At the end of the session, see, if you don't believe me, if you don't remember, if you forget, see the minutes, see the stenogram. I just announced it. I just announced it. ... And look, please, look at the stenogram. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm asking you to take a nice look, see if I'm lying, making it up, or, I don't know, somebody doesn't remember, let's call it that. This one. Okay. Do we still have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? ... Dear Representative Zekanovic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17395	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, there is still a weekly debate plan on the Internet, still, where there is no statement on the amendments on today, here's a check on the Internet. There's probably some kind of whisperer coming to you right now, but there isn't, so it's still missing. We're informational written go to the Internet here. Look at the cell phone, there's no phone. So what changes should change in the weekly debate plan. If you put some fus note to change something, it can be sent from the Bureau of Parliament emails to all clubs that have changed, I don't think that's hard nowadays.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17396	Of course that's what I said here, I repeat there's a common practice to it that I really don't see what's bothering you right now, but obviously something's bothering you, and I don't understand what. But good. Honorable representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17397	I thank the chairman. So, with this practice of putting the agenda of five to twelve or by changing the agenda in five to twelve, I call it the lakordian, the largest home in Croatia. And you yourself know that self-will is one form of dictatorship and such a way of ruling and managing and composing the agenda, but you also know better that it has its own time of duration and that it will eventually end, eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17398	Well, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, of course, and I repeat by not knowing which time, I said yesterday I was finishing a session of whoever was here knows it well or is pretending just not to know that we're going to continue to declare the amendments. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17399	So, you did not let colleague Ahmetovic speak on behalf of the promoter the closing word... /The speakers speak at the same time./... You withdrew all individual debates to complete the debate for 8 hours and 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17400	Based on an article. In 240, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. We have a break wanted by a respected representative, Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17401	.... /The speech room was subsequently included./... Croatian National Assembly. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement. The MPs of the Homeland Movement are here as usual. The fact is that there has been a certain misunderstanding between my colleagues and my colleague, Boric, and my colleagues, Kujudnzic and Bulj, were here until 9:00 last night. We've had little misunderstandings about the discussions, so I suggest that we have no amendments because we said that the Homeland Movement will not participate in these cosmetic corrections of the executive law and we ask for a new executive law to be passed, but I suggest a break to calm down the passions a little bit and so that these ambiguities can be made clear that we can continue to work politely, civilizedly, normally as it suits and worthy of HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17402	Thank you very much. I'll take that break anyway, and I'll approve it. And the esteemed representative Demetlik is also looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17403	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's me, on behalf of the IDS club, I'm going to ask for a break to take a stand on this illogical behavior of yours and to bring to the agenda something that wasn't before. And I'm surprised by your misunderstanding as a first because when you say that we've received amendments, I know about my amendment. We gave it to the IDS Club, but if I get an amendment from other parties in half the night or at one hour I didn't just have the opportunity and how I'm going to vote tomorrow for their amendments if I couldn't read them. It is obvious that your rude behavior as ruling continues, no matter what the budget has been passed, continues on to other points because most of your budgets are coming from all your presentations, you've received most of the votes and you have the right to do whatever you want. But if you want to co-operate in this House and that we from the opposition can also make a good contribution to the adoption of certain laws, really this inappropriate behaviour of yours towards members of opposition parties is not right. I would ask that you do not make such misunderstandings and mistakes in the future because it is simply a misdemeanour, not us fellow MPs who come from the opposition but all those citizens that we represent here because if we propose something then we propose for their own interests, not for our own interests, but for the interests of the citizens who have chosen us, who have delegated us to defend their interests in this House. And you, with all your machines and tools, are trying to minimize, demean and simply insult the institution of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17404	I'll go over that first or second sentence that was an insult to me, but once again I'll say, look at your email, please look at the email on Tuesday you got all the amendments, exactly as they arrived. And I say again yesterday at the end of the session I announced that we would discuss it, but on Tuesday you received all the amendments as they arrived during the debate because, as you know by the Rules of Procedure, amendments can be given during the debate until the end of the debate, as they arrived there by email and received them. The Honorable representative Bačić also asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17405	Thank you, Vice President HS. Well, let's just calm down our passions 'cause it's gonna turn out to be a problem here, and I don't think it's there. When we put into the agenda the final draft of the Implementing Law we agreed here and I don't think there were any objections about the emergency procedure, so all the clubs agreed to bring it in as soon as possible, to come into force as soon as possible about the Christmases, related to the performances during the winter periods and other changes that are in this final draft of the law. To do that, we must vote him out, to vote him out, we must explain all the amendments and agree here. You have submitted the amendments you will explain here, you know which amendments you have explained all other amendments from other colleagues by tomorrow you can read as much as your heart desires. The raid is not heard....until tomorrow, and here if there had been a supplement, if we had introduced some key law to be discussed today, and you hadn't prepared yourself, I would have understood. Okay, and maybe that's not right. The amendment's interpretation has been introduced so that the law under emergency procedure can be voted tomorrow. It means something we all agreed on. Both opposition and ruling, that this is important to solve as soon as possible, to get into effect as soon as possible, and now the problem in the morning is to explain your own amendments, and to read others all day. And then tomorrow prepare to vote on the amendments of other clubs. And by tomorrow, I can read every amendment of yours, listen to your argument here, and have a position by tomorrow because I agree with you, or you agree with me. But I mean, let's go back, just for a second, let's go back to base, first of all, we agreed here that this law is very important for Croatian citizens and that it must go into emergency procedure. In order to be in an emergency procedure, you had to agree with that. You've agreed, we're planning, and it's already announced when we're going to vote on the law itself, and now the problem is that an explanation of the amendments is included. He wouldn't have been included,... Just a second, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Wouldn't have been included in a whole executive law that would now be debated. [[Intruder: Please don't leave the scene.]] You know what you wrote, put it out, by tomorrow we'll read it and vote on it. [[Thank you very much. Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17406	You're way out of time. Re-respected Representative Bulj with a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please. What's been hurt differently now than before?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17407	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. My colleague Bacic has hurt his ankle. 238 where it's persistently warm-cold, basically, you've reversed the story. It's no problem to explain the amendment. We don't have a problem with that. The problem here is that it wasn't announced in time to explain the amendments through the procedure that yesterday was sent to the clubs, if it had been called, we would know it today. I'm here today, and I was here in the assembly, and I didn't notice that all day. So this is where the procedure for not being co-legislators was deliberately violated, in order to defend democratically their amendments that would be useful, we have to hear them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17408	Thank you very much. Come on, I suggest we give up on those unnecessary, thank you very much for giving up. He's a colleague of Zekanovic's. Did you ask for a break? Yes, it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17409	That's right, I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns Club for 10 minutes. We have a situation here that has never occurred in this congregation or in the last term. We have one precedent. I'd like you to admit, however, that a little bit has strayed from the usual procedure. It would be normal for you to decide after making a decision at the Presidency, i.e. after you and Mr Jandrokovic have decided to discuss the amendments this morning, that you have also sent an e-mail to all the clubs with information on the discussion of the amendments at this time. It wasn't done. The other thing she didn't do, so she hasn't changed a week's debate plan, and it hasn't changed, so I checked it this morning, checked it almost every day, and it's not in the weekly debate plan, and really colleagues who have proposed amendments, some colleagues aren't there. And they wanted to be and they wanted to defend their amendment because these amendments make sense. We'll probably support this law because it's better than the one that was originally, but it's not at all the point of this debate. The point of this debate is that you know well that you have made one procedural mistake, intentional or unintentional. But the mistake was made. And just from you, I'm not even asking for a public apology, but I'd like you not to be replicating me on my break right now. Let's finish the story here. The mistake was made, we noticed it, we warned you, here, in 10 minutes after the break we can begin to debate the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17410	I'll, of course, give you a break. I am categorically telling you, no mistake has been made, no deviation from the usual practice of this House over the years, years and years has been made. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17411	Thank you very much, Vice President. In 238, a colleague of Zekanovic, but also all other colleagues, here deliberately make false, means they deviate from the rules of conduct. At the end of the session, did you make it clear that today, the amendments to the Implementing Law will be discussed? But what happened. They were still searching for it at that time when you said it, it can be looked at in the videos, which exist, have it there and I can look at it, where you are clearly saying that in the morning you will discuss amendments to the Executive Law And they assure you that you didn't say that. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] It's not correct of them. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17412	Thank you very much. I'm not hurt by the Rules of Procedure, neither am I, I'm not giving any warning, I'm giving a break, and I'll see you at 9:00, at 10 and 5. At 10 and 5. It's 9:00.55. [[Intruder: Plenkovic will buy Boric a chocolate bar.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:05 A.M.]] We now have Amendment No. 9 Advocacy Club of the Independent Lists Bridge. Your Honor's state secrets, please take your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17414	Amendment No. 9 Independent Lists Bridges are not accepted. The proposed amendment covers the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives to Art. The 4th draft law is already covered by that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17415	In the name of the club, the Honorable Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17416	Thank you very much for having prescribed the amendment that we have given to a constructive debate, but when we talk about these amendments and the way we vote on this most important one of which citizens are awaiting the law it is the executive law one of the bigger problems is visible and today from this debate that it is best, I will repeat 76 robots here in Parliament, it is artificial intelligence that is in line with the digitisation of Europe, so the lower costs will not triangulate measures because of the covid, so the way you started this session today's statement on a very important law is unacceptable. But it's good that HDZ prescribes the amendments and proposals made by the Independent Lists Bridge, so I hope that these others will also be prescribed by us in this package. I'm sorry that you didn't prescribe colleagues and colleagues from most of the amendment to the state budget, mostly you from the mountainous and mountainous areas, here's Drniš Mayor and what didn't vote for Drniš, Drniš, Drnič, Dalmatinska Zagora, for amendments that are very important for the survival of people in those areas because unfortunately we have empty areas. And here I hope once again that you will be able to bring here robots, and that this will be new artificial intelligence in line with the European principles that Plenkovic here often represents and that there will be fewer costs and that there will be no need to adhere to the robots of epidemiological measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17417	Are you asking for a vote or are you withdrawing the amendment I didn't understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17418	I'm asking for a vote no matter what it's accepted to see... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17419	Thank you very much. 10th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17420	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed solution is too undefined and does not contribute to legal certainty, since it is not clearly prescribed a period of time during which the operations are not carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17421	On behalf of the bloc, a respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17422	Since we believe that colleagues will look at the amendments to the Green-Left bloc, I will not explain it, but I demand that they be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17423	Thank you. 11th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17424	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17425	It's becoming an integral part. 12th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17426	The amendment is not accepted. Substantial solution in art. 6 proposals have been introduced as an additional strengthening of the protection of the rights of the perpetrators and cannot be taken into account in isolation but should also be considered in conjunction with other provisions of the Implementing Law, the Law on the Procedural Procedure, the Consumer Protection Act, which provides full protection of the rights of the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17427	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17428	We'll vote on that then. 13th Amendment of the Independent List Bridges Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17429	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed solution referred to in Article 1 7 is appropriate given that there are executives who have a large number of cases, and because of the above circumstances, that deadline is precisely indicated as justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17430	On behalf of the club, counsel Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17431	Thank you very much. Here you have accepted an amendment of course prescribed by the HDZ from the Bridge proposal, which means it is a step forward, it is good to know and copy and copy what is good even if you wrote to yourself. I hope you'll rewrite this amendment once again. Otherwise, in this law, it is very problematic that we Croatian citizens, legal and natural persons, are in a discriminatory position towards foreign legal and natural persons if foreigners do not have to and do not have public notebooks as Croatian citizens go to courts, so that the parties directly resolve the problems of the creditors and debtors, and in the Republic of Croatia we have a food chain, so we go to public notebooks which is unacceptable, discriminatory and is not with the principles you are referring to. Croatian Government Andrej Plenkovic, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, these are European principles of equality, justice than the Croatian people in this case is also discriminated against in the worst way because we have one whole food chain between creditors and debtors, and in this way we have brought our citizens into a more unfavourable position than foreigners we do not have, so I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17432	14th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17433	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed solution referred to in Article 1 7 is appropriate, given that such a high amount of debt is no longer a social category and that up to 40,000 kuna is foreseen as a social measure to protect the dignity of the perpetrators and that low debt cannot be sold real estate in the executive procedure and that this does not distort its market value.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17434	On behalf of the club, we don't have anyone, so there's got to be a vote on that. 15th Amendment of the Independent List Bridges Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17435	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed solution referred to in Article 1 7. We consider it appropriate in view of such a high amount of the principal debt to be no longer a social category and because the principal of up to 40,000 kuna is defined as a social measure to safeguard the dignity of the perpetrators and that the low debt does not sell real estate in the executive procedure and does not distort its market value.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17436	On behalf of the club, counsel Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17437	This proposal came in favor of our citizens not to be taken away from the property below you listed 40,000 kuna, we asked for a more significant increase so that for the petty people not to be thrown out into the street. That increase is acceptable, I mean, it's done, you're looking for your 40,000 kunas, we've put 75 thousand kunas, so that in this way, as I repeat again, we don't contribute to our citizens, but, behold, I would once again say that I am disappointed in the non-democracy procedure regarding the adoption of these significant laws and issues that they have given and suggestions from the opposition. With this, we have an amendment behind my colleague Marin Miletic who asked for people who are teachers in our education system, but today he is not here because he didn't have timely information at the club, but in the late hours, someone slipped through his mouth probably, if it was done, was not timelyly informed. So I expect you to accept his amendment, his amendment is very important to those who teach, educate, which are teachers, and that threatened people who receive union support because of the one in which our education is located, and mostly educational workers, will be excluded from this. It is an amendment that will soon succeed, and since there is no fellow Miletic and has not received timely information, it is on the ground, I think this procedure, that you have violated it, and that you will accept that amendment. I believe that also the minister the other day when the debate on this law gave a positive view of this proposal which follows behind, and I hope you will accept this amendment, that people will not be taken away from them for change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17438	16th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17439	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as the previous amendment. In addition to only one note, and for all these amendments, that the court may decide, in the procedure it implements, that this principal of up to 40 thousand kuna in view of the procedure and nature of the debt, a specific case may decide that the property is not sold for more than 40 thousand kuna, that is a discretionary assessment of the fair procedure in a litigation procedure in a court of law. We don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17440	On behalf of the club, respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17441	Well, I'd remind you, and swallow yourself a little bit, you've just got yesterday and today a case of single parents of the Adriatica and her daughter Lorena who because of a debt of ten thousand kuna were completed in a way that their real estate was also, what we were looking for here, this disproportionate property value estimated, sold and that the two of them are on the road today, and that the girl, i.e. A young 20-year-old girl has a fever. See what your executive law has done so far and look at the situation that two women are in today. Of course we'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17442	17th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17443	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17444	It becomes an integral part of the law. 18th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17445	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17446	It's becoming an integral part. 19. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17447	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment is covered by the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to the article. 12 draft laws. It's the same as HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17448	Honorable representative of the story on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17449	I accept the refusal since our request is covered by Amendment 18. We're not looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17450	So you're withdrawing the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17451	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17452	20th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17453	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment is to a greater extent covered by the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to the article. The 12th draft law, i.e. at points 20 and 21 of the proposed solution, cannot accept the amendment because such solutions leave room for manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17454	On behalf of the Block Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17455	... that it will not be completed [[Specially enabled.]] Is Well, I'd say that HDZ suggested that the performances don't exist on Christmas Eves and that kind of supplements happen once a year, they sound so very handsome, very populist, that we won't kidnap people, and we know very well that many of these Christmases won't even win. [[/Intruder: Yes. Yeah, it is now.]] They're looking for people here, like. Seafarers or accessories for union social assistance, so other measures are required, and not what you have suggested and indeed, take a closer look, so, I warn my colleagues to look at, these are their voters, to look at what we have asked for in this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17456	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you. [[Intruder: Of course.]] 21st Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17457	As far as the union's demands are concerned, we've accepted everything. The amendment is not accepted 21. The proposed amendment is to a greater extent covered by the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to the article. 12, whereas income tax reimbursement is an integral part of the salary and cannot be retroactively excluded from the application.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17458	Dear Representative Demetlik on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17459	Right now, thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I will immediately say that I will request a vote for this amendment. Namely, as you said, these amendments and additions to the law in Art. 12 You have really predicted and expanded the benefits that have been excluded from this, and that is a positive one, but we at the IDS Club believe that this should have added the severances as a first because we consider it to be the same as the one prize, as we call it, the jubilee, meaning for a certain job experience that someone has done, that this award enters the benefits that are exempted from the performance. And secondly, tax returns, which are due to some reliefs, e.g. Someone hasn't done all year, they've been fired or overworked, and now they've got that privilege, and they're getting that tax back, and we feel the same thing should be excluded from the exercise, and that's why I'm going to ask for a vote. Thank you. And you might want to install that into a new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17460	22nd Amendment of Representative Marin Miletic But he's not here, so we'll vote on him anyway, please, an argument. [[Intruder: Amendment to...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17461	The amendment is not accepted because it is largely covered by the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to the article. 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17462	We'll vote on him, of course, this one. 23rd Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17463	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment is to a greater extent covered by the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to the article. 4. Therefore, give an article. The 13th must be prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17464	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17465	First of all, I would like to ask for amendments on which I did not have the opportunity to explain because it was not exposed anywhere that the amendments will be discussed today, so I would ask that I be allowed to do so. As far as this article is concerned. 13. Here's the explanation next. So, after you change...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17466	I'm sorry, so we've already discussed this, and we can't go back to the debate that went through, now we're talking about Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17467	So I'm not asking for a debate on that, I'm just asking that I be allowed to explain an amendment that I couldn't explain because there was no notice that at this point the amendment is being explained, that amendments are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17468	Notice, you received an e-mail on Tuesday, not to repeat the whole story, and yesterday afternoon it was announced that amendments will be discussed today. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17469	We didn't win, so we didn't get the time of the debate. So we didn't know they were going to discuss the amendments today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17470	It's said. That was said yesterday. Yesterday afternoon, it was said. Look at your stenogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17471	Yesterday afternoon?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17472	Look at whatever you want, tape TV, whatever you want, right? But we're on amendment 23 now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17473	Okay, so we'll check that information. As for the art, then. 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17474	23.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17475	I say the amendment applies to the article. 13 after the amendments to the law are allegedly taken to reduce the costs of the law being carried out again to carry out operations under the procedure of enforcement on the basis of a credible document, it allows public notaries the right to compensation. Therefore, it is necessary to return the proceedings to the courts, as many have said here, and thus allow both a fair procedure and a cheaper procedure, especially since the case before the court, as many have pointed out, allows foreign citizens. That's why this amendment is needed, and I'm going to ask for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17476	24th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17477	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17478	It becomes an integral part of the law. 25th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17479	The amendment is not accepted because it is largely covered by the amendments of the HDZ Club of Representatives to the article. 4th, and this is about filing a court by means of an e-mail system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17480	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17481	Since what we've been looking for is covered by amendments 6 and 24. We're not asking for a vote from the HDZ representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17482	So you're pulling back then?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17483	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17484	Thank you very much. 26th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representative Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17485	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment is to a greater extent covered by the amendments of the HDZ Club of Representatives to the article. 4. on the court's submission through the information system e-mail.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17486	On behalf of the club, respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17487	It is seen from the argument that everything is already included in what HDZ has proposed, so we will only ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17488	So you're asking for a vote? Yeah, yeah, I didn't hear right either, since you said everything was covered, so I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17489	Yes, yes, the arguments are here and colleagues before and colleagues before it all exists, that all this has already been suggested by HDZ, so here I'm just wondering how it was done on the road, and then I'm asking this one for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17490	Okay, thank you. Thank you very much. There will be a vote of course on this. 27th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17491	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17492	It becomes an integral part of the law. 28th representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17493	We don't accept the amendment. The adoption of the amendment in question would create a legal gap in the behaviour of the public notary when the Commissioner of the Court adopts a proposal for an implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17494	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17495	So here's why I'm going to explain in principle why my amendments are going after the fact that public records are being excluded from this system as much as possible? Public records are basically privatizing part of the justice system and state apparatus. The judicial system is systematically destroyed by corruption and low investment, too few people are employed, and those employed, as we know, must be politically similar. In such conditions there is overload of the system, and those who have produced this overload as a solution now advocate something that can be called privatising part of the system. It is in fact the same model as in all other cases of privatisation or so on. the nice words “outsoring” is, as is the case with any privatisation of outsoring, the result is more expensive and less quality service, the leak of public funds is a lower level of protection of rights, etc. The solution is therefore the return of the executive procedure entirely and exclusively to the jurisdiction of the court, which will result in a more efficient, cheaper and fairer implementation of the executive procedure. I think there's a consensus here that tells you that it's best to return this case to court practice. I warn that the reason and not the quality and expensive services is because it's actually a model of exorcism. Every time we have a model of exorcism or so on. a public-private partnership, as it is said, is publicly losing to the benefit of private. And here's the model in action. So if we go back to the courts, it's going to be better and cheaper, I guess we all do. I will ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17496	Thank you. 29th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17497	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17498	It's becoming an integral part. 30th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17499	We don't accept the amendment. The proposed solution is too undefined and does not contribute to legal certainty because any court proceedings in the case or executive proceedings are subject to judicial fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17500	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17501	So I don't really know what's undefined here now when you say instead of doing business in the procedure of enforcement based on credible documents, public notebooks "have the right to compensation" and in my intervention "have no right to compensation". It literally means that what you have written is prescribed, it is only explicitly said that "they do not have the right to compensation" if I am unsettled then your article is unsettled, but in any case the same explanation as in the previous articles that I do not repeat, it is important that we make this procedure cheaper and make it more effective in the end case. And what you're doing is bringing one more step into this whole procedure into what's-his-name. a unique fee based on the rules on fees and clientelistic elections, a high coster of public records services in this case only make it necessary to say so at this new step. What we'd like to do seems to me to be that there's some consensus that we can reduce those steps and end unnecessary public records that have been voted on by the clientelest, and otherwise they wouldn't be so high. But that's how I say it in the logic of the job itself because it's people who are fighting on the market and of course their goal is to collect a service that is a service of a private business to say so in legal practice. Therefore, if we go by market principle with all things then of course we will have expensive services in each segment and so on in this segment. I will ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17502	31st Amendment to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17503	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17504	32nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17505	The amendment is not accepted. Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted an amendment to the same proposal. The 8th Amendment of the Law cannot be accepted by this amendment, which represents nomotechnical compliance with the amendment to the Article. 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17506	There are no club representatives, so we're gonna have to vote on that amendment. 33rd Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17507	The amendment is not accepted. The provisions referred to in Article 1(1) shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. On 19 December, it is prescribed that the provisions governing the enforcement procedure are applied in an appropriate manner to the insurance procedures and that, in this rule, an exception is prescribed that the provision governing the implementation of the property cannot be implemented if the principal of the debt is less than 40,000 that it is not also applicable to the insurance procedure. The above solution continues to protect the perpetrator from launching an application for claims in which the principal is less than 40,000 kuna and damages the executive's right to seek or achieve a balanced solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17508	On behalf of the club of MPs, respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17509	33rd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17510	The amendment is not accepted because it constitutes a nomotechnical alignment with the amendment to the Article. 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17511	On behalf of the club, counsel Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17512	This proposal to increase the capital that makes it impossible to run real estate on the only real estate will mainly now be more and more in this crisis, the economic crisis, and otherwise we have a number of people who lose their only properties, the only family homes, and everyone in the Republic has the right to a home. But this amount of 40,000 kuna is I think it's amazing that now people are going to be kicked out mostly now in this covid crisis on the road. Otherwise, I have to mention here that many people will unfortunately end up on the road because of the savings of credit cooperatives, Raiffeisen, who have simply done illegal business in the Republic of Croatia and passed the law on to this house unanimously that these loans are worthless, however, the executive power, you respected state secretaries, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, is doing nothing about this one law that we have brought about the nullity of these loans that were not legal, so I expect you to solve that too. The increase in the amount is minimal what we can do in this economic and mainly now in this covid crisis is believe me if we do nothing that many of our citizens will lose their only real estate, our home, and we have no right to do so in the Republic of Croatia. We have to do everything to protect these people, it's not their fault that the economic and economic situation in the Republic of Croatia is this coffee, which is all devastated, robbed, being humiliated. It's the policies you're conducting, and so I'm asking once again to protect our most vulnerable and poorest and I'm asking for a vote...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17513	Thank you. 35th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17514	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed solution is too undefined and does not contribute to legal certainty, given that proposals for the provision of demand by nature of things in the context of this article cannot be considered pending.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17515	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17516	This amendment is important precisely because of the cases already mentioned here today, so it is about the mother and daughter who had just been decommissioned from their home a few days ago. The daughter also had a fever, so they ended up out there not to say in the cold during the crown. Otherwise, the debt that caused them to lose 40 square meters in the centre of Zagreb is only 10.000 kuna, it was created in a way that simply the owner could not pay the reservation because of the difficult social property situation. That is why the debt was later reduced to 7,000 kuna, but no matter what, it was dissuaded. Otherwise, the owner also filed a complaint, and the complaint was, unfortunately, only one day later, and the dissuasion continued or occurred. It is this amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives that would avoid such cases in the future, and we are absolutely looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17517	36th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17518	The amendment is not accepted. Application of the exemptions prescribed in Art. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17519	On behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17520	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17521	Thank you. Dear representative Boric is. 37th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17522	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment is to a greater extent covered by the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to the article. 4 and the existing provisions of Article 4 172, Art. 173. The law of law. It is therefore unclear that the proposed solution would change in practice through transitional and final provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17523	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17524	But that's hard to accept because it's about people whose status isn't defined, and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17525	Amendment 38 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17526	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17527	39th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17528	The amendment is accepted in part, but in the amended form, given that the proposed amendment would not, with a delay, cover the implementation of the budget implementation on accounts carried out by FINA and the implementation of the pay and other permanent monetary incomes, propose to amend the amendment as follows: The Government of the Republic of Croatia may, under special circumstances, adopt, following the declaration of the disease epidemic Covid-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, a decision to halt the implementation of the executive procedures for a maximum period of 6 months. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government will provide for the enforcement procedures, the procedures for the implementation of the implementation of the audit on monetary demand by the accounts carried out by the FINA and the implementation of the pay and other permanent incomes of the decisions. That necessary legislative intervention shall ensure full protection of the dignity of the performers while retaining the principle of proportionality and proportionality between the interest of the creditors and the interest of the debtor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17529	In the name of the club, a respected representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17530	Mr. Secretary of State, I'd be happy to say that I accept this intention of your partial acceptance of our amendment, but unfortunately I can't say that. We continue to insist that you accept the amendment in a way that excludes all income from the executive procedures of persons with disabilities, on the one hand, who are recipients of personal disability or compensation for assistance and care, as well as their parents or guardians, until the adoption of two laws, the Law on personal assistants, personal assistance and the Law on Inclusive Supplement. Why? Because despite this intention of yours and the fact that even now some social benefits have been excluded, as well as personal disability, the fact is that if a person has no other income or income, its personal disability is $1,500 per month. In a situation where we don't even have new competitions for personal assistants, which is the 1st cold stand, when people themselves have to pay personal assistants to put them on a wheelchair, take them off the cart, take them to the toilet, and that rarely, these costs are from 3,500 to 7,000 kuna, then it's quite clear that unfortunately these disability benefits and for help and care are not enough, these are, their social inclusion intentions, and people with disabilities are unfortunately forced to spend...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17531	Sorry to interrupt. I have the impression that you've been having a bit of a joke, that you're talking about each other, the conclusion, not this amendment. I have a feeling you're in a little bit of a wrong movie.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17532	Excuse me. We're on the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17533	We're on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17534	39.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17536	Transitional and final provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17537	No, no, no, it's not, it's not your conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17538	No conclusion, I'm talking about the amendment. That's right. [[Clip intrusion: Amendment page 21]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17540	Why are you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17541	No, no, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17542	You see, that's why you didn't accept the amendment, unfortunately. What do I do now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17543	No, no, just, just keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17544	So how am I supposed to continue when you broke my whole concept?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17545	No, no, well, we'll keep going over time, but I think I still think you're talking about the wrong one, that you're in the wrong movie.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17546	But I'm sorry that you think I missed out on the subject...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17547	All right, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17548	...because it just shows that you don't understand this amendment and that's why you didn't reject it, but you accepted it in part.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17549	All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17550	Anyway, I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary of State. The existing exceptions to the performance that we take on the hands of people with disabilities or social cases, which is not the subject of this amendment, unfortunately we do not solve their otherwise difficult situation which is even more difficult in this situation. Among other things, I'm not doing government in certain parts and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17551	As far as this amendment is concerned, the president of your club has accepted this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17552	Well, this colleague obviously doesn't accept the amendment on behalf of the club, so the SDP Club is asking for a vote if I understand well. The SDP Club is requesting a vote on this amendment. [[/Clip intrusion: What?]] Okay. I would now like to ask if the proposing representative would like to make clear on the proposal for a conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club, which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to propose within 90 days of the adoption of this conclusion the HS legislative solutions that regulate the introduction of an inclusive allowance and the area of personal assistance for persons with disabilities and children with development difficulties." Please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17553	The conclusion is not accepted. The regulation of the inclusive addition and development of the personal assistance system is one of the key programmes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2020-2024, and these issues will be part of a regular legislative procedure involving working groups involving persons with disabilities and public consultation and other ways of participating in the public interest to address the challenges faced by persons with disabilities in a way that will provide them with support that provides them with an adequate opportunity to engage in society on the same basis with other citizens of the Republic. As far as the laws in question are concerned, the work of two working groups that were to finish their work is under way, but due to the pandemic of the coronaryvirus, it is a little stalled, but in 2021, two laws will be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u17554	Thank you very much. You want on behalf of the club? There's actually nothing here, that's what we're going to vote on. [[I will.]] This is what I thank both the proposer's representative and everyone who discussed it. And now that we've decided yesterday we're moving on to a united debate on the next six points, I'm going to read them again because obviously everything needs to be read more times, and then it's not enough. Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peacekeeping support operation KFOR in Kosovo - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Support Operation “Sea Guardian” in the Mediterranean - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the activities of the reinforced presence of NATO in the Republic of Poland - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the activities of the permanent NATO group of mine forces 2 - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members... Will you let me read it, Comrade Bull? May I speak? - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation “EU NAVFOR Somalia – Atalanta” - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operations of the United Nations. So, the proposer of these decisions is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article. 24 Laws on Defence and Art. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The Honorable Secretary of State at the Department of Defense, Zdravko Jakop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18043	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and representatives of HS. The Republic of Croatia is a responsible member of the international community and, in accordance with the possibilities, actively contributes to international security and the resolution of crises through peaceful means. Participation in operations, missions and other activities is an important instrument for the foreign and security policy of the Republic of Croatia and ensures that national interests and foreign policy priorities are met. Speaking of operations, missions and NATO activities, the Republic of Croatia is further developing its capabilities and raising the interoperability of the Armed Forces with the allies. The contributions of members to missions represent one of the 3 pillars of burden distribution, with the exemption for defence and modernisation of the Armed Forces and with the achievement of the defined objectives of the member's ability. The EU takes on an increasingly important role and responsibility for European security and one of the important instruments of the EU's common security and foreign policy are missions and operations to which the Republic of Croatia contributes in accordance with its capabilities. In addition to NATO and the EU, the Republic of Croatia has made international security and peace-preservation efforts, contributions and engagements in UN peacekeeping support operations. The participation in peace support operations, missions and other activities is one of the 3 missions of the Croatian Army and 9265 members have been involved since 1999. We are currently participating in 9 missions and activities with a total of 161 members. Taking into account the external political priorities and the needs expressed in the field of individual missions, operations and activities for the purpose of contributing to international security and retaining the role of responsible and credible members of the EU, NATO and the UN, it is proposed that decisions be taken to engage the OSCE in 2021 and 2022. The decisions are in accordance with the Defence Act, decisions under the Law on Defence be made by the HS on a proposal from the Government, with the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia and these decisions are meant, last and two stages, to the Government and to have the consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia. NATO peace support operations, now perhaps a word, two on each of these operations and missions, when we talk about NATO's peace support operation for KFOR in Kosovo, is the primary task of supporting the maintenance of the security environment on the basis of the mandate set by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. HV supports the operation with key air transport capabilities and specialist teams to control the movement and collection of data. Since 2009, 831 HV members have participated in the operation through 33 rotations, and a particularly visible contribution to the operation has been given to the participation of transport helicopters. Currently, up to 40 members with up to 2 helicopters in the area of operation are currently deployed 36 members. The proposal is to increase the number of members to up to 150 in 2021 and 2022 using up to 2 helicopters. The increase would refer to the declaration of an easy pedestrian company in the Western sector where the leading nation of Italy is. The Republic of Croatia, after completing its participation in the mission in Afghanistan, also increases its engagement in the neighbourhood, in Southeast Europe and continues to confirm that it is a credible ally who continuously contributes to NATO missions. We all know that in Afghanistan we had over 550 people in certain times, then it was reduced to 200, and now we've pulled back forces, so in some ways here we would give our pedestrian forces the opportunity to participate in certain operations. When we talk about NATO's peace support operation Sea Guardian in the Mediterranean, it has the task of establishing maritime security in order to co-operate with Mediterranean countries to maintain awareness of the maritime situation and build defence capacities. The operation launched in 2016 and the Republic of Croatia has so far participated in 2018 by Vukovar, and in 2019 and 2020 by Dubrovnik with 99 members, i.e. 33 members after rotation. Participation in the operation improves the ability of the Croatian Navy to carry out tasks and increases interoperability. The new decision proposes the possibility to refer to the Sea Guardian operation up to 35 members of the OS ship of the Croatian Navy since our ships also have this capacity of practical crew. When we talk about NATO activities, strengthening the forward presence in Poland is part of NATO's engagement to deter and the state of readiness to reverse aggression and to demonstrate NATO's determination to defend allies. The decision to strengthen forces on the eastern wing of the alliance was taken at a summit in Warsaw in 2016, and all activities are carried out to strengthen collective defence. 475 members of the Croatian Army participated in the battle group in Poland with the leading US country since 2017. The participation in activities of the enhanced NATO presence in Poland began with a decision in 2018 to send up to 80 members to this activity in 2019, 2020. It is currently in the activities of the 6th contingent with 80 members. The proposal is that in 2021 up to 90 members can be sent. The level of the battle of single multi-state rocket launchers with the possibility of rotation. This is practically the only place where our artillery can practice interoperability and participate in international activities. When we talk about NATO's continued NATO activities, the anti-minor forces group 2 is an organisation of naval forces available for Allied anti-mining activities at sea, heavily engaged in the Mediterranean and Black Sea areas, which contributes to the level of safety at sea. The participation of our members in the activities would be carried out to form a combined Croatian-Italian anti-mining diving team on the Italian Republic Navy. During years of cooperation with the anti-mining forces of the Italian Navy, the pro-thumin HRM divers achieved a high level of common abilities. It is proposed to make a decision for 2021 and 2022, sending a team of anti-miny divers with up to five members of the armed forces as part of a dedicated organised naval force for allied mine action at sea. When we talk about EU Operation NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA is part of the EU's comprehensive approach to the Horn of Africa, and is an answer to pirate attacks on merchant ships passing through the Gulf of Aden. An important role in deterring attacks on World Food Programme ships is autonomous security teams, Autonomous Vessel Protection Detachment or we call AVPD composed of 12 to 20 persons on ships carrying assistance. The Republic of Croatia has participated in the operation since 2009 by filling in the operational command of the operation and by seconding the AVPD ship protection teams to date took part in the operation four teams in 2014, 2016, 2018 and in June 2020. The new decision proposes the possibility of a reference in 2021 and 2022 to 25 members. When we talk about UN peace support operations, they aim to help create a long-term stable, secure and more advanced environment, and strengthening the rule of law, respect for human rights and security are fundamental preconditions for meeting this goal. Participation in operations in India, Pakistan and the Western Sahara began in 2002. In accordance with the decision in the operation in India and Pakistan, it is possible to refer up to ten members and now ten of them are participating in the operation. And in an operation in the Western Sahara, up to eight members and now five of them are involved. Armed forces have been participating in the operation in Lebanon UNIFIL since 2007. On the basis of the decision made in the operation, it was possible to refer up to 70 members in 2018, 2019, with 52 members participating in the operation and currently participating in one member. The new decision proposes to give up to nine members of the operation in India and Pakistan in 2021 and 2022, in the operation in the Western Sahara of MINURSO up to five members and Lebanon UNIFIL up to three members. Here are the honourable MPs and MPs I suggest you support these decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18044	Thank you very much. Please stay here if we have a whole series of replicas on your exposure. First, he's an agent of the Bulls. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18045	Thank you very much. Here is the Croatian soldier who deserves the greatest honor, the Croatian soldier is on the Croatian soldier. It is the biggest brand of truth about the Croatian soldier, and I hope that when we talk about this matter, we will talk first of all about Croatia's safety under the umbrella, as you say NATO. I ask you a question when you listed all these missions and even the front forces, you said that the number of people were often our soldiers and clay pigeons in some kind of missions unprotected, what did you do for the safety of our citizens in accordance with the law of border protection as the Croatian Government? When will HV protect the safety of our citizens from the entry of illegal migrants and when will you protect our sea, our Adriatic, Croatia's coast guard that foreign fleets do not use our seas?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18046	Thank you. The Honorable Secretary of State will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18047	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. The Croatian Army, the Croatian Armed Forces are acting in accordance with the law and regulations, so that all activities within this framework are secure that all activities carried out in Croatia and carried out in this international activity in international operations, missions and activities are aimed at strengthening the CV with, with the willingness to participate actively whenever necessary and whenever possible by law or by decision of this HS, so that there has never been a questionable ability to protect our borders or protect our seas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18048	Next line, Comrade Bull, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18049	A representative of the government has been injured by an article. 238. I asked for answers whether the safety of our citizens was protected...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18050	Comrade Bull, enough of this! Based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning. You abuse the institution on a continuous basis of the Rules of Procedure and I've had enough of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18051	Let me finish. You didn't let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18052	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18053	You've got behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18054	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18055	Thank you, Vice President HS. Secretary of State, in each of these peacekeeping missions, the main item is "the development of new capabilities of our armed forces". It is these "new abilities" that I am interested in, specifically, that through the Ministry itself we cannot nor can we calculate, but the vast experience that our soldiers carry on in these peacekeeping missions, but also experience and learned, learned behaviors and learned operations that they later bring into our armed forces. So I'm interested by the Department of Defense itself in what way exactly are members of contingents who are on such missions, here in particular through the SEA GUARDIAN operation, do we use these members as lecturers at military universities? Are we using them in the Coast Guard? Do we, in what way do we use exactly the experiences that members of these contingents bring back into our armed forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18056	Dear Secretary of State Jakop.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18057	Your Honor, I really thank you for asking this question because perhaps I have tried this opportunity in some way to present this point to show that the Ministry of Defence and the HV is trying to participate with all genders and all branches in certain operations in accordance with the possibilities, means both financial and, and this human capacity. So we've chosen certain operations that, one of which you've listed is SEA GUARDIAN, but we're also for the Croatian Air Force having a participation in KFOR with helicopters, and we've also participated in Lithuania with the Patrias, and so here's the artillery I've somehow pulled because I might have been someone, maybe a little more close to my heart because I was the head of artillery, so we're trying to find a place for every generation, branch, somehow to participate in international operations. First through training, second because of the goals of fulfillment, [[Intruder: Thank you]] objectives and tasks. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18058	The next replica of the respected representative, Rada Simičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18059	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, HV is a winning army that proved it in the Homeland War and she is the pride of her people. They will certainly carry out all the tasks professionally and responsibly in, in these missions and it is important here to stress that we are members of certain alliances and that we should also participate in certain operations. It is important to say that these are not combat actions but that these are peace-preservation missions and it is also very important that all the tribes of the army, as I have read in these materials, are represented in these, in these missions. What are your previous experience of HV participation in missions and do you support the active participation of HV in, in, in, peace missions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18060	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18061	Thank you very much for asking. Our experiences are positive, positive, and this is one of the reasons why we have proposed today to continue to participate in such operations for several reasons. One, I mentioned earlier, that this is important for us because of interoperability, it is important for us for our training, it is important for us to adopt standards because we are an integral part of this and of NATO and EU members, as well as of the UN. Everything, all of these experiences basically, each of these operations requires an evaluation, so inside the operation is an assessment of how someone contributed, but we also have a system of lessons learned to be able to pass on experience to others. It was mentioned earlier that we also use people who were in operations to be lecturers, to be instructors, and that these knowledge is actively transmitted in real time to our troops that could not participate in the international operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18062	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18063	Thank you, Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Peace missions, our army heads under the auspices of the UN, the EU and NATO. The name of a peace mission itself says that they are in peace service, means that crisis hotspots help to establish peace. The first peacekeeping mission was in Sierra Leone, the western part of Africa, and they are now closer to the peace mission, Kosovo, the Mediterranean, etc. That is, I seem to have some impression that the crisis hotspots are getting closer to our homeland. And that's why I think it's good for our HV to be involved in them because of what you've stated and to practice certain operations with our allies, to have additional experience, knowledge, information because, as I mentioned, the crisis hotspots are getting closer and closer to our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18064	The answer of the esteemed representative, Jacob, Secretary of State, forgive me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18065	Mr. Representative, I am pleased that both Croatia and HV, as an integral part, have somehow moved from the stage when we were users of such operations to, in a phase where we can contribute to this stabilisation, peace and security in the world so that here, it is our small contribution and in accordance with our capabilities and you are right, too, that we may have participated in some operations when they were far from home, but now it is also our priority to contribute to our immediate environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18066	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Deura.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18067	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, this is certain that we are supporting this support of peace, but also the HV, along with what we have seen so far, in all the missions and shows the security given by the recognizability, but here, I would like, and also the responsibility that is recognised as one serious, serious force that can take part alongside all NATO members. And I'm interested, especially here you mentioned Poland and the ability that the HV shows in that operation so I'd like to hear, here's how much these abilities are and what else we can expect because we are really one of the main NATO members and shoulder to shoulder with the United States, and I'd like to hear what else we can expect and which will be shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18068	Dear Secretary of State Jakop.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18069	Thank you very much for this question. I can say from this place that our participation in peace missions, practically in all peacekeeping missions, was evaluated either very well or excellently, so it shows that we have something to pass on to our young forces or troops who, who had no possibility of being in international operations, but it also confirms various praises and rewards that there are several levels, I would say, no? How those formal assessments that are within NATO, the EU and the UN, and from the host country or the operator of the operation, and I must boast here that we are a really large number, practically in each operation we received certain thanks, whether the host countries or this operator of the operation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18070	The next replica is the respected representative of Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18071	Thank you, Vice President. So, Madam Secretary of State, first of all I have to conclude, you've already told us more about the data than it says in the annual report on international missions. So during your presentation, you mentioned Afghanistan, that over 550 people were engaged in the mission itself, we know that this was made in partial decisions even in the previous assembly. What's the problem, you used a word as we know it, and we don't know, we didn't get a report until today, so most of the people sitting here in the Parliament don't know how the mission ended in Afghanistan, why it was over, what the effects of that mission were, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18072	Dear Secretary of State Jakop.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18073	And for this, we're going to give a report in accordance with the positive regulations of the law. Be sure to make this annual report a little wider and bigger than it has been so far and I'm glad if I've been able to get through the opening presentation to give maybe here, in this High House more information than you've had so far, and I say we know, well, maybe think of myself, I think I know what I'm doing and I'm always in line with the positive regulations, but in order to make it as best that I can give it to RH.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18074	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18075	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The Sea Guardian is a NATO mission in the Mediterranean in international waters to prevent weapons smuggling. But it also provides operational assistance and cooperates with the EUNAFOR MED IRINI operation carried out by the EU. For the purpose of implementing UN Security Council Resolution 2292 2016, now, I would be interested and the question would be, because in your explanation you have left out to say that this one is involved, the question is, can you explain to us how NATO's Sea Guardian mission is co-operated with IRINI's mission in a segment to prevent human trafficking?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18076	Dear Secretary of State Jakop.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18077	Your Honor, I thank you very much for this question. I had additional information on page 9, thank you for that opportunity. So we, as a responsible member of both NATO and the EU, also have a member of the IRINI Peace Mission who participates in the operation command in Rome, and one of the tasks of that command is a coordinated action. When you look at the number of EU members, as well as NATO members, make sure that all of these members, like us, try to make some, have some added value. So we are trying to get through this one member in IRINI to have additional value when our ship is involved in the Sea Guardian operation, to achieve this additional effect because we cannot send an unlimited number of people to IRINA even though it is one of the EU's priority operations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18078	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now we're going to the representatives' clubs. The first is the Association of State Movement Representatives in the name of which the respected representative Stipo Mlinarić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18079	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. A few days ago, the government sent us 4 proposals for decisions on participation in operations and 2 proposals for decisions on participation and activities of the OSCE in various international military missions. Content and thematically, this is the continuation of the 2019 Defence Report that we discussed two months ago and we have concluded that it is a visual picture of the important rather than the partner position of the Republic of Croatia in NATO and the EU. However, in particular, the subject or item of the agenda here is operations that are different to the holders of these operations. And other differences result from conceptal, political, perceptional, and others. The holders of the two operations are the United Nations, the holders of the other two operations are the common EU and NATO, and the holders of the two activities are NATO itself. The missions will take place extensively from Kosovo and Poland via the Mediterranean Sea and the Black Sea. I do not doubt that Croatian soldiers will be up to the task as I know unfortunately that Croatian policy is not and will not be, will not be up to their share in this task in order to participate actively as an equal member of the UN, NATO and the EU in the creation of security and military strategies of these international associations. For now, it is totally passive and barren because if it wasn't, it would have initiated discussions and activities on a security strategy related to BiH's space. This space for us neighbouring republics is regional, European and global interest and problem. In fact, the geostrategic problem of the BiH space came to the heart of the global and European attention back in 1878, the Berlin Congress and remained unsolved. in the center of attention until now, and you don't see when it's going to stabilize. Should it be reminded that the occasion of World War I occurred in BiH, and that various and complex instabilitys in this area would be one of the major destabilising threats to European and world stability after a quarter of a century of the Teston Agreement. A superficial view of the geographical map clearly shows that the premises of BiH and the Republic of Croatia are extremely connected and are conditioned in a number of ways, and that the Republic of Croatia cannot be stable in any way unless there is stability in the BiH area, and vice versa, BiH cannot be stable in any way unless it is stable in the Republic of Croatia. So I ask a key question, what has the Republic of Croatia done as a full member of the UN and the EU to make these 3 extremely powerful global and European associations aimed at creating concrete and effective strategies and policies that would stabilise BiH's space? The answer is unfortunately totally disappointing. The Croatian state institutions have done nothing concrete and pro-active in this regard for the last 3 decades but have completely passive, immature and complexly left the dispersion to the opposing and often changing desires and conflict of interest of the powerful states of these associations. This was the most obvious and painful during Serbia's armed aggression in '92. until '95. when only the Croatian side is i.e. The Republic of Croatia received and implemented all proposals coming from the so-called international communities, as well as each other. The highest price of such state inadequacy was paid, especially now paid by Croats in BiH, and therefore by the Republic of Croatia as a state. Many humiliating examples are unnecessarily cited because they happen and witness to them daily. Therefore, we in the Homeland Movement have decided to do everything possible to stop this Croatian misery, and we propose that an urgent debate be opened in HS that would in the next few months articulate a clear and elaborate strategy in line with international but also in Croatia's interest to take concrete economic, political and security measures of the UN, NATO and the EU in order to fully stabilise in BiH. I will refer specifically to this occasion to the proposal for a decision on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in Operation Support for Peace SEA GUARDIAN. This operation in the public is presented as a fight against refugee smuggling, and in fact it deals to the greatest extent with the rescue and care of refugees in the Mediterranean. It is an operation that NATO has joined an existing EU operation in the Mediterranean that is officially called SOFI. According to EU data only in 2015 730,000 refugees were rescued by the Mediterranean action. Croatia should certainly participate in actions to rescue refugees from drowning, but I would personally be happier to deal with this rescue in these actions by deterring refugees from illegally crossing the EU's sea and other borders. Croatia is more faced with the problem of illegal entry of refugees across the border from BiH. There are obvious intensities that some of these refugees are being transferred organised and supported by the BiH authorities. We are facing the import of the BiH refugee crisis, and it is increasingly becoming a threat to the security of our borders and our citizens living at the border, so it is becoming a security issue of the Croatian state just as the Serb aggressor attacked Croatia from the territory of BiH, and that it has officially seen, turned its head, and now this is happening with the refugee wave. It could be said that this behavior by the BiH authorities is trying to destabilise Croatia on a sensitive issue of refugees. I believe that as a NATO member of the alliance involved in these military operations, we have the right to ask the same ally to condition its negotiations on BiH's entry into integration with stricter border control by the state. Especially because officially Sarajevo enjoys the great support of some powerful NATO alliance members such as Turkey and the United States. I believe that our commitment to the EU and NATO, especially to our citizens, is to do everything we can to make sure that neighbouring BiH considers Croatia's borders, not only the borders of the neighbouring country, but also the borders of the EU and NATO alliance. If they meet their obligations under the alliance, we have the right to seek support in the policy of curbing the immigration crisis that is coming to us from BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18080	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be the Croatian sovereigns, and time will be shared by respected representatives Sacic and Zekanovic. First of all, the Honorable Representative Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18081	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. As you know, therefore, we have suffered huge, huge war damage from great Serb aggression and with the help of the Croatian people, especially with the help of our emigrants, we have managed to defend ourselves somehow with the enormous force that attacked us in the aggression of the 1990s, and with God's help we managed to maintain ourselves until the end of '91. The year that was the most critical of years. We were very happy that President Tudjman, together with our leadership at the time, provided us with international assistance, the arrival of UNPROFOR forces, which was also one of the exceptional, exceptional, important, significant, fateful, as well as this, international forms of support for Croatian freedom because we recovered during that period and were able to free our area through later liberating actions. Through such glasses and through such a prism we Croatian sovereigns today see our friends' aspirations in R. Kosovo where we send our Croatian soldiers, winners, war winners who are valued in the international community with exceptional skills. Thank God that's right, they're forged exactly, unfortunately in the war and as such today at an exceptional price, I think they're the greatest value of our Ministry of Defense. Now, what is good, especially our friends in R. Kosovo, many of them, Albanian sons have helped us to defend and free ourselves, and in itself, understandably to help them in this peace operation to deter stability from any hostilities to preserve public order and peace, cooperation, as explained there. But also, we're a little concerned about this, uh, this, uh, presence number, first it was with 40 people, 2 helicopters, so 80, here we are now 150, I think it would be compared to all the other countries that are taking part in this one of our top burdens. It is that we have provided around 145 million kuna in the budget for all these activities and from Lithuania, Poland, this and this UN activities, Somalia, down and so on, Sea Guardian. However, we must keep this in mind, that it is objectively looking at us also, and we also wish for the engagement of HV at Croatian borders. We don't know how this crisis will escalate, illegal migrants are at the door, we heard a little while ago from our colleagues, we know, we monitor, we see daily, our media don't exactly keep reporting it, it's more in the focus Covid, however, there are columns of refugees through the Gorski Kotar, down there, every day we see it, illegal, where our police, border police can't absolutely cover it because it even suggests our colleagues from Slovenia, from Hungary, and even from Italy. Now, what we need to say is that the NATO system that we've entered into, which we're looking for our help and we expect support and help from it, we're safer with it, somehow less anxiously looking at all these outbursts of our neighbours, our generosity. Here, we have chosen, recently we have witnessed the chosen young, smart, beautiful mayor Banja Luka, when what is worse than this before, Dodik, even more denying all these war crimes, genocides, even more promotes large-scale Serbian politics, not to talk about our neighbours in the Republic of Serbia, their aspirations, their aspirations to arm themselves, to be better than Croatia, to be praised, to invest more in their weapons, and then when we're in that NATO system, we know, there they are, if there's anything, and in the end, President Bush said, the Croats, they'll never attack you again when you're in the NATO system. Now, that costs, it requires certain danks, both in material means and in our people, thank God we've come out of Afghanistan, rests our souls to the soldier who died there, who spilled blood there. We stick as close as we can to our country to Croatia, and our Croatian soldier loves it, he likes to be in cooperation with other foreign soldiers, he confirms it, he comes to terms. We feel and know our friends are in HV that they happily go on these missions, but we want them to not be risked by those who lived in the Homeland War, so for now, let it be just one good preventive action, without the use of resources that can lead to the loss of life, and let it be a strategic exercise in which they will restore and enrich their expertise. Thank you very much. Mr. Hrvoje.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18082	The respected representative Zekanovic will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18083	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President of HS. I would mention one man today, and this is Josip Briski, a Croatian soldier who died in Afghanistan in a peacekeeping mission involving the HV. And we here today will agree more or less with everything the secretary of state has exposed to us today, but still note that the pensions of the mission, no matter how much we agree with them, and we are aware that our country, our army must help create peace in the world, sometimes I can end up in a way that some Croatian man, a Croatian soldier, I will even say Croatian hero in this sense is no longer among the living and that is what is important to emphasize. What would further point out as far as SEE GUARDIAN peace mission is concerned is one mission that is extremely important in this regard, and I think that Croatia would have to make more effort because the problem of illegal migration is a problem that will grow, a problem that will not stop. Finally, I would mention a mission in Kosovo in terms of KFOR, if there was a people who were with us in our own alliance, it was the Albanian people, it was our Kosovoers, it was Albanians, and I think they care very much that the Croatian army, which is with them, in some sense, the Allied army participates in these missions, and they know very well how to recognise the Croatian army in these missions and they are pleased to see it with the signs of a peace mission and the Croatian flag on the shoulders of Croatian soldiers. And in this sense precisely because of this one never agreed alliance that exists, I am glad that Croatian soldiers go there together with other international forces. Let us not forget who, with our people in the Homeland War, was uncompromising, without that, but by wearing the uniforms of the Croatian army and in every other way they supported us, it was the Albanians. With the fact that I have to stress here that this peace mission, that we remember this history a little bit, that it has been going on since 1999 when the United States had bombed Serbia that they never forgave them, I will say thank you to God, we regret that they had not done so in the 1990s, there would be no war in Croatia, and I will mention that the Croatian army is also stationed there at the base of work in Bondsteel, Bon Bondsteel is one of the largest US military bases in the world in general with 7,000 troops and I believe that there is also a Croatian army that has gained experience and in the Homeland War can learn something from the Americans, and that we can learn something from the Americans, so thumbs up for the KFOR mission.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18084	The next club of representatives is that of the SDP, and time will be shared by respected MPs Kuzmanic and Vidovic. First of all, the respected representative Kuzmanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18085	I thank the chairman. I welcome all MPs and State Secretary Jakup and Secretary of the Department of Defence, Mr Barac. We've heard a lot about the destruction of the opposition, and that's exactly what we want to talk you into. The Croatian opposition, at least as far as the SDP is concerned, is always constructive when it comes to the interests of Croatian citizens and the interests of the Croatian state. Such decisions contribute precisely to this, they are in the interest of the Croatian state. Why? We have to be ashamed. Today Croatia is not Croatia from 20, 30 years ago, we are a full member of the EU today, we are a full member of NATO, we are a full member of the UN. What we must become, and that is equal partners, we must be an equal partner in all these alliances. Namely, the SDP club will support this, we give full support, full support to the participation of the Croatian military in missions of this humanitarian and peace nature, and especially to the fact that there is a clear and unequivocal consensus within the club, and I am personally proud that we are from a state that has recently needed a form of this kind of assistance, we are now a country that participates and helps establish peace and stability. I deeply believe that from us MPs, regardless of party membership, almost no one doubts the participation of the Croatian army in missions of this kind. What I may have talked about earlier on the Defence Committee and here at HS, which is that in this way the Croatian military must take advantage of this opportunity to share certain experiences and knowledge to strengthen the Armed Forces in the Republic of Croatia, but also to strengthen our economy and our industry because there is no strong industry without a strong state, and the military industry is an important component of that system. I've talked about these things from this pay phone before, and I'll talk about it in the future. Only a strong state has a strong industry and we need to take this opportunity to in some way strengthen our economy, our military industry and strengthen Croatian sovereignty and Croatian stability on these missions with our skills and our products. So, the only thing we wanted to propose on this issue is an amendment that will explain in detail by colleague Vidovic, and he is concerned that it is simple for HS to report more on these operations annually, but as you have heard, we have learned more about these operations here now from General Jakop than we have, Secretary of State James, I apologized, than we knew from the reports and all the materials we have received so far. We therefore give full support to this in the hope that we will be more detailed about such matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18086	The respected representative Vidovic will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18087	Thank you very much. So, we at the SDP Club are perfectly clear that it is about the international commitments undertaken through alliances, etc. Croatia is integrated, thank God, and into the Euro-Atlantic alliance, or NATO, that it is integrated into the EU, etc. And it's a clear thing that we're going to support it because it's, it's, it's missions that are already taking place, and practically since 2008, some of them, even before. However, the part we are not satisfied with concerns the very reporting of this mission. Here's when I said today in the replica that you state secretaries gave us more information than there are in the report, there's proof of that, so the annual defense report. As far as contributing to international security is concerned, it goes from 92 to 97 pages, so on page 5 it costs 11 missions. I assume you'll all agree with me that it's not serious reporting. So, HS lacks data on the financial aspect of these missions, we lack data on the benefits we have in these missions, and you mentioned them through ineroperability, through cooperation with other NATO members etc., etc. and we understand that participation in missions is practically part of the Croatian Armed Forces training. It is clear to us that this is a huge contribution to international security, that all the missions in which Croatia participate are practically, ha could say almost humanitarian character, so they are aimed at maintaining peace, and are not focused on entering, establishing peace or such, so these are not war operations, these are operations that are turned even towards raising levels in certain countries of democratic life, etc. That's why we don't think it makes any sense to virtually deny that information to this tall home. However, I think that's the data everyone should be proud of because wherever HV gets the medals, it gets the praises, but we don't know anything about it, so that's what we hear here from your speech today. I think these are things that we should know, as I say, the financial aspect of getting through the budget in one item, what is the number of engagement of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in international operations, but we don't know by each operation how much, we don't know what the benefits are, I say a number of things. That is why we in the Club of Representatives of the SDP have decided to submit an amendment which will say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit, once a year, a special report by HS on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia referred to in point one of this decision, in principle in all decisions, to point 2 which is disputed at this point. As for the reasons, we clearly believe that it is necessary to bind the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a special report once a year for each mission or for the Peace Support Operation, not only in the framework of an annual defence report. Then, due to concerns practically for the interest of the state, so finally and for the care of the Croatian soldier himself we send to the mission, which, dear colleagues and colleagues, is our responsibility, we raise our hands for it and when we mention the late Croatian soldier Josip Briskog, we are the ones who raised our hands for it. It's perfect and natural that we're looking for a report on these things. So, and because of that, because of transparency, at the end of the 21st century, I think we left some things behind to have the same look as we do about the armed forces of the Republic, that there's no point in any secrecy and that the data that are classified are classified and are available to a small number of people, but I don't see what should be classified in international operations. I think this data we're appealing to is a principle that shouldn't be kept secret, which, after all, isn't as protected as it is. Therefore, I must also point out that our amendment is going in the direction so that we can get the content, not get the form. We will also be satisfied if the annual report extends this part concerning international cooperation or international activities of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and if this is far more exhaustive than it is now. I say you'll agree with me on five pages of eleven missions, here's so much from me and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18088	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the green-left bloc on behalf of which Rada Boric, a respected representative, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18089	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State Jakup. I'm glad you're here and as a woman I'm talking about topics such as pension missions or pension operations. It seems to have been some space for men and with pride, and I will talk about it in an individual debate, I am also talking about a significant number of women who are represented in our peace operations and who make that extra value to these peace operations. The left-green bloc club wants to remind, in a way, that we're detaching considerable funds for the mission's pensions in '21. We will single out 145 million 834 thousand and of course we all know and what the importance of peace missions is. We know that obligations, as counterpart Vidovic and other colleagues have just said and taken over from various international agreements and agreements, and what we find extremely important is that certain missions really contribute to stabilising and maintaining peace and helping to build a local community that, of course, our soldiers have the opportunity, I will not say testing, but also to show their abilities and skills, their training and what is important cooperation with other military missions. They have, I'd say, the most deserved actually in this knowledge transfer, the very company is just commending and we're getting that experience that we gained from the Homeland War and those skills are very useful in some other environments. But what we further think is important for our soldiers, we are all talking about lifelong learning that our soldiers are also going into multicultural environments in different environments. Here are some colleagues who, apart from the police, would be very happy to see both the army and yesterday we heard a colleague who said that because of refugees, the mountaineering home had been welded, and as we know, he is a Christian, so I don't think it's very Christian to weld the door to anyone in these difficult times. So I think that the participants of the extremely Croatian army in all our missions are something that might be an example. But what we seem to have missed, which is that these acquired experiences in peacekeeping missions could also be useful in the process of transforming our own education system and I don't know how much knowledge and experience is being used. In fact, we still don't have something to call if you want, I'm not going to say it might not be a good word and it's not from a military dictionary, so we can have a good manual of learned knowledge and skills that could be systematically applied to our security policy, and we'd have to decide what security means to us. Is it human security or is it just the safety of the army at the borders? And we think that exactly our participation in peace missions disproves the idea of self-preserving the status quo, and our missions don't. Indeed, there and colleagues spoke before me, they promote, democratisation, community development, if you want the economic development of the community and strengthening the rule of law. However, what is very important to us, and it goes in the direction of what I was talking about, that these missions must also be supported by adequate development aid. You have seen how much one single amendment was accepted by Mrs. Petyr, partly out of misunderstanding, because she did not design it as a story about a million-and-a-half-breed development aid, which means helping a persecuted community. And I think also as a Christian she could find a different term which means helping because there are other different minorities where our pension forces go that are somewhere haunted by a minority. What worries us is that we haven't allocated enough resources for development aid, and moreover, we have been refused an amendment that we wanted to increase development cooperation to be present for development cooperation and in countries where we already have military missions, perhaps a little less than will now be in Kosovo, but the presence together so-called. The military element and what we call development cooperation must be different but it's just keeping the status quo whatever it is. When we look at projects of international development cooperation for the past year, we only symbolically invested funds in Kosovo and Libya, for example. 15.614 for scholarships to students from Libya, here we talked about SEE GURARDIANAAN should indeed see what it means and what assistance it is if it is indeed an average parliamentary salary invested in the education of students from Libya. In other countries related to these Somalia, India, Pakistan, the Western Sahara and Lebanon, no matter what in those countries, five or six people. What concerns us is also to say why we do not have in what I have said to the catalogue of some of the experiences and knowledge of the peace mission in Afghanistan, which we would have followed by this request by Mr Vidovic, I think the Parliament deserves one final report after the pension of the operation in Afghanistan, not only how much money is spent because what is said about the spilled milk or not spilled should not be spoken. What have we learned? I remember there in development aid was help, for example. for one school in one part of Afghanistan or that it was for the development project of women who were engaged in new production in a small destroyed city. That's where our soldiers and soldiers were admitted as hosts, not guests. So there, it's kind of a kind of parallel collaboration. I'd say a little bit of grief, we've seen the most, that we're most financially present in NATO missions, and then in the EU missions, we know what the EU military story is like. We're just symbolically present in UN missions. Why do we have such imbalances? Have we forgotten the good side of the UN in our area related to the peaceful integration of the Danube? No matter what criticism we've had, we're not going to be on the trail of Trump's policy that would reduce the funds for everyone, and that's probably the UN's connection to that, too. We also worry, as well as colleagues from the SDP, that they gave up the regular report on the missions carried out. You suggest that these missions be reported in an annual defence report, while we'd rather practice remain as it was before. So, special annual reports like we don't discuss every mission today, so at least that cumulatively all missions once a year, and when a mission is over then we'd like to see how the funds, which means we have the right, and I'd say we have a responsibility according to that. We'll also ask that we get that practice door, maybe we can agree not to write two, two amendments. And finally, last year, we also passed the Law on the Participation of Civilian Experts and Experts, which is also called the Law on Civilian Experts, Experts in International Missions and Operations, and I am interested in having regard to this law, indeed which is the place of civil expertise and experts, as I said that when our military mission is accompanied by good development cooperation and that how and financial assistance for what in some community is recognised to be important to them, and not what we would decide to do here is important to them, I think we should also have excellent experts, someone here has asked whether we are using at our universities exactly all of them, so we have the answer that, therefore, those who have acquired additional knowledge and skills, so we are interested in the use of the skills of experts and experts and experts, and what is therefore with education precisely about our peace missions, I have had the experience, and I have educated the Finnish missions in the field of Kosovo, which is a more common sense for Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18090	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which a respected representative, Miroslav Tudjman, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18091	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary. Today, we are discussing 6 decisions on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in nine NATO, EU and UN peacekeeping missions. There is already a proposal to mean the Government of the Republic which is the basis for this debate, the consent of the President of the Republic, and the majority of parties in the assembly to accept this decision. Therefore, I would not overly debate and repeat the arguments why this should be accepted but I would simply like to say that, at the beginning, the HDZ will accept the proposed decisions on the participation of HR in these operations. And so far these discussions, i.e. the views of clubs, place an emphasis on political objectives, the reasons for the participation of HR in peacekeeping missions. However, it is important to warn of experience and knowledge. lessons learned that should be capitalised from Croatia's participation in peace operations. Not only about professional, professional training and political tasks, but also what these operations could mean for Croatia's economic development. I will remind only that Croatia has been participating since '99. in peace operations and we have heard that nearly 10,000 members of the Croatian Armed Forces or Armed Forces have already participated in this. What are the basic lessons learned? The world faces new security challenges and threats, from asymmetric conflicts to hybrid wars and terrorist threats. That is why the UN, the EU and NATO are constantly dealing with the challenges and threats to global and regional security, the fight against terrorism, freedom issues without state nations, the fight against proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, protection of critical infrastructure, etc. The purpose of peace operations is to contribute to the creation and long-term stable and secure environment, and to strengthen the values on which freedom, rule of law, respect for human rights and security rests or should rest internationally, etc. Therefore, the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia must develop their capabilities by participating in peacekeeping operations for interoperability and compatibility with the forces of other Member States. This contributes to common security, but also to the common objective set out in this explanation, which is simply forgotten in a way, development and economic growth by NATO and EU Member States. This is explicitly stated in the explanation of these operations. We must therefore ask the question of how and how the participation of the Croatian Army contributes to the economic development of Croatia. HV as a member of NATO operations and other operations, is on the front line of contemporary experiences of protecting and promoting regional and global security. Multiple experiences are of interest to national and regional security. I'll just remind you of some. On the one hand, it is an articulation and acceptance of standards, standards for equipment and weapons, technological standards, especially when it comes to new technologies,.../incomprehensible/... but also standards of political action, from those for the management of national policies and global policies of security, but also to the moral and ethical standards of each member participating in these operations. The assumption of applying these standards, or the urge that forces us to do so, is interoperability and compatibility with the forces of other countries, i.e. digitalisation of data. That's what it means, to take part in a new environment that we call cyberspace today. And this cyberspace today isn't just an army space, it's a common space and civil and military action, it's practically a public space. The next dimension is the education and training of people in this area, these are people with new knowledge and new abilities. In short due time, I will only have to point out that all these changes have also led to global changes in which domains, in which areas today are guaranteed the domination of certain countries, either in political, military or economic space. The classic ones are land, water, air and weather, these new domains are cyberspace and space. It's a lesson, it was about the HV and the Homeland War. Croatia, we won the Homeland War because we were able to successfully combine the first four domains, military skills or provide real-time information, which was a key factor for success in all these major operations. But today, we need to be aware that our experiences in cyberspace are limited, and in space, they hardly exist. That's why the HV experience in these operations is special and I would say even invaluable. Why? Because members of these operations have experience, not only military, not only political and organisational but also relevant knowledge of Croatia's economic development. As these experiences are conveyed, it is a special topic and I think what I am saying is, far beyond what my colleague Vidovic suggested, I agree with it, but I think it should be complemented. Military experience, theoretical, practical and doctrinal, would be normal to transfer, articulate and scientific and practical at the Croatian Military University or University. Political knowledge, we already have problems here because we adopted a dogma that politics must be excluded from the Armed Forces, although OS participates in operations that have primary political objectives. Therefore, the assumption of participation in these operations is the understanding of missions and reasons for and the motive for which it participates, thus assuming, and the task is to transfer positive and negative political experiences from the missions in which Croatia participates. That means, when I say this, I don't think the army should be made, it's not her job to make political decisions, and she has to understand the world where she is and where she works. What is of particular importance to me is that this segment simply does not seem to have, that is, what are economic messages, not only about the functioning and development of the military system, the entire military segment, whether the Croatian, any NATO alliance, but also, one system concerning general social development, who collects these information and how the procedures, which are, how these economic information is transferred for the needs of the Croatian economy, for the needs of the military industry, and ultimately, for the articulation of national policy and the strategy of industrial development of Croatia. Here, perhaps as a conclusion or.../incomprehensible/... one, one reminder, would remind you of the development, strength and role of the Dubrovnik Republic, which since the 16th century was rightly one of the great powers in those relations, precisely because all sea captains had an obligation to bring what they would call intelligence and information today to which the policies of the Dubrovnik Republic were then conducted. Today, in my opinion or in what we know and we don't know exactly that segment should be developed and developed, and that should be talked about, not just the political dimensions of these operations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18092	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that bridge of independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18093	Fellow Members and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Croatian government, State Secretary. In this debate when we talk about HV in any topic, then we must always say at the beginning, and colleague Boric also mentioned certain questions, but I would say here that the Croatian state's best thing and HV has the most trust of Croatian people and HV, what she had in the Homeland War, which is a great knowledge, skills, motivation for the freedom of Croatian people is something that has the most valuable and should not be slow about it, so to mention anyone's role and any role in helping the Croatian soldier, I think in freedom that the greatest role was solely motivation, the courage of Croatian soldiers, where are members of the MUP, police officers, of course Croatian defence forces HOS and HV. And speaking of peace missions, the Croatian soldier is not only now on peacekeeping missions where he is exposed somewhere as a clay pigeon as he was in Afghanistan, the Croatian soldier also helped in the Homeland War, mainly in the area of the Bihaćka Enclava, so as not to commit a greater crime that Ratko Mladic would commit in the enclave than was Srebrenica. So that the Croatian soldier was always human, he had this line and she played a big part, also Col. Boric mentioned women, women played a huge role. We can remember here, starting with my Sinjana, who died Snježana Jurić Šolto and many other women, from Sandra Bulj to other women who were in medical staff, but also on the front line of the battlefield such as Violeta Antolic, who gave heroin in the defence of Vukovar, who defended herself on the first line at the Fair, so that women, we should talk about that there were numerous those who were heroines, and even in the last term there was my colleague Ines Strenja Linić, who was the Croatian defender seen at the war in Ličko-Senjska, on the Ličko ratište, on the back of our Croatia. The role of HV in missions must be observed through several aspects. First of all, the Croatian soldier is responsible for the freedom of the Croatian people. These experiences that no one has and the whole world is proud of, I don't understand how these operations took place against a liberating, mainly operation, but also the defense of Croatia itself against a much more armed, motivated enemy? And we need to keep those experiences respected representatives in HV. All the schools, all the sciences were amazed, all of them, all the science wondered how it had been led then by President Franjo Tudjman as commander-in-chief, how it had preserved and defended the Republic of Croatia against one force that was at the very beginning, intended to occupy Croatia, destroy the Croatian people in the heart of Europe. The international world forces weren't exactly on Croatia's side then, and those big ones, if they had been intent on NATO and others in Croatia, they wouldn't have fired a single bullet on the Croatian man, there wouldn't have been crimes from Vukovar, Skabrnje still. So we must be proud and speak exclusively and only and promote the truth and only the truth about the Homeland War, that people, young men and girls in rabatins, jeans, weakly armed stood before the Serbs of the Chetnik tank, and JNA was a great force. So let's get rid of the fact that we're always asking questions about who helped whom. The Croatian people were mostly left alone with a few allies that we had at the time and not exactly had any help. So we don't owe anyone anything, so they don't talk about any debts to any international organization. Of course, the Croatian soldier must primarily serve for security when we call on umbrellas and this, these missions we call the UN, NATO's European army, that we must not allow ourselves exclusively and only to stick to that parole that was in the Homeland War, the sons, the poor sons, and the rich oxen. So we wouldn't be letting our boys bleed for other people's interests. We have to be very careful here, because when we mention our dead soldier, Briskog, then we must always look at how and where we send HV, and we are the ones who have to decide where, how and when we send the Croatian soldiers and what the interest of the Republic is if we call here to be protected by some umbrella, NATO or what everything here is mentioned and the front power in Poland, the front power of Lithuania, is not well here, but we have these missions. It is therefore essential to point out once again that the HV plays a key role in protecting the safety of the Croatian people in the '90s. Many have washed their hands from the Croatian people, those who could help with the international level of the Croatian people, and have not even allowed the large-serb aggression, then JNA to defeat Croatia in several weeks or months, have even given them the time to stifle the rebellion allegedly of Croatian peoples. In fact, it was a struggle for freedom. I would first of all talk here about the security of citizens in the Republic of Croatia and the legislation, in essence about the Constitution adopted by this Assembly by the respected representatives of the ministry. If we're talking about international missions right here, okay, I'm going to discuss international missions, although I'm not agreeing with a lot of things here. First of all, I don't agree with what the salary is, say, the Croatian soldier on the mission, how much in the American soldier, the German soldier, the French soldier. Is our blood cheaper than the blood of those strong forces if we already cooperate? Another question is if we send so many of our sons, boys, Croatian soldiers on a mission, is that our return? Do we, uh, have a combat squadron of our planes maybe to help us? You may say, you give a lot of your soldiers in the most difficult missions in very difficult situations in which they find themselves and threaten their lives to promote freedom or preserve freedom in certain areas like that. Afghanistan, what about the planes? What about our coast guard? We have a problem in technical equipment. We also bought hoodies that I don't know how much ammo they have. What about the reserve of Croatia, we see that our border is threatened by illegal migrants people do not feel safe either in Gorski Kotar or in Dalmatinska Zagora? They enter how, as if cheese were hollow, and we have the law that we passed this year in 2016 that the Croatian Government or the Ministry of Interior can ask for help in keeping the border unless there is enough power, and the Ministry of Interior doesn't have enough power to protect itself from illegal migrants, we don't. The illegal migrants come in as they please. Croatian police officers struggle, lack enough resources, human resources to cover the Croatian border. We also have a problem on our Adriatic when we talk about missions where our alleged friends who invite us to our missions are taking out fish, our flora and fauna are destroying us, and even now they're going to turn off the economic belt. It's our sea. We have the right to make 24,000 square miles of declaration regardless of what some here oppose even from the ruling ones, I have seen that it is a good thing that the Italians declare an exclusive economic belt. But why don't we declare him? Why does the government refuse him? And do we have enough in Croatia for the Coast Guard to do this? So once again, let us be careful in sending our missions for other people's interests. Let's not let us send our sons, and they charge some sort of... Thank you very much. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18094	Thank you very much. Now we're going to individual debates and first they're going to speak to the esteemed representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18095	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. General, with associate, colleague and colleague, nice greeting to all. For starters, I will read to you a piece of the report by the famous Croatian research journalist Robert Valdec who was on the Croatian border with Bosnia and Herzegovina a few days ago. He was in the U.S. Canton more precisely, and now he sent me the current state of affairs a few minutes ago. In the Unsko-San canton on the very border with Croatia there are therefore approximately 10,000 illegal migrants. 85% of them are from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, and even 98% are young men. Those who come from North Africa are mostly criminals or former ISILs. I note, it's a newspaper article I quote. Due to the configuration of the terrain and the lack of people, it is impossible for the Croatian police to cover the entire border in quality. As soon as a more serious problem is made as a recent knife murder in Sarajevo... media and NGOs are immediately hitting on stories about the cruelty of the Croatian police. So there is only one small excerpt from the article that speaks of a serious security threat at the Croatian border, as well as in this part of Gorski Kotar, and, of course, the Dalmatian Zagora. The migrant crisis at our borders primarily for those with Bosnia and Herzegovina poses a serious security threat, and in some parts of Croatia our people have major problems with illegal migrants. Border areas are wandering people for whom no one knows who they are and where they came from, entering cottages or empty houses and living there, and they often leave them completely devastated. The Croatian state border has a very specific shape and is difficult to monitor throughout the length, and neither does the European Union have a clear policy and attitude towards migrants. They need labour, but at the same time they are disturbed by ghettoisation and religious radicalism, which are viewed in the worst possible way in terrorist attacks under the auspices of religious fanaticism. I therefore call for a change in this policy. A pool of cheap labour from African and Asian countries has proved to be a complete failure, and Croatia as well as its neighbouring countries has become a dump for refugees for which there is no quality solution. Croatia has the absolute right to seek and obtain assistance from all integrations involving NATO primarily in people and technicals, and from the European Union in co-financing of reception costs, accommodation and transit of illegal migrants. As far as these six members of the Armed Forces are concerned, we support all of them, under the condition that the safety of our soldiers and soldiers always comes first. To all members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia currently engaged in all operations around the world, the Homeland Movement wants successful work, especially fast and safe return to the homeland and its families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18096	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18097	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Secretary of State, Secretary General of the Department of Defense. We have six peace support operations in front of us sending our contingents to the Croatian Armed Forces, we have some here, such as the KFOR mission of operations in Kosovo, which was launched in 1999 to some new peace support operations involving the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. As before, as in 2018, when we discussed sending our soldiers opened some topics, but also the importance of these operations themselves. It is important to stress that the Republic of Croatia has recently been a beneficiary of precisely this kind of peace operation, and now it is nice to see Croatian soldiers in these operations, all the awards and praises received from Member States and countries where these missions are carried out and the important emphasis we often mention, which is... abilities, why we are including these missions that are dangerous and which have their own risks. And, of course, it's not easy for HS to send Croatian soldiers so far from their homeland, but this very development of new abilities is something that we have prescribed in the strategy for the development of the armed forces itself, the experience that the Croatian soldier also has from the Homeland War I think is commendable and something that definitely contributes to our allies and our colleagues who are together with our soldiers on these missions. As far as Kosovo itself is concerned, there are several of these missions to be highlighted, it is short of time so I won't be able to do everything, but here I don't think we should even mention in what environment and what is happening in Kosovo and how important the presence of the Republic of Croatia as a country that understands the situation in Southeast Europe, but also a state that wants stability and security. And it is important that this segment is just the experience that we are promoting is important for the transformation of the Kosovo Republic's forces in the future, i.e. Here is the current armed force of Kosovo itself. It is an important segment when we look at the social stability itself, but also at the economy that we are protecting in this way, so this second peace support operation SEE GUARDIAN, which is very important and which we have listed in the beginning through the very replicas to the Secretary of State that contributes to the development and maritime security and the fight against terrorism. But here we have heard from colleagues and the protection and rescue of the migrants themselves, but how important it is to participate our armed forces in this kind of peace support operation in the Mediterranean, we know how much these activities take place near the Adriatic Sea, we know how much experience we need in developing exactly our coast guard, so it is immeasurable what the Croatian Navy is just getting and participating in these missions, and it is an interesting aspect of our sailors who tomorrow and commanders who are returning to their homeland and all of that experience are being transferred through the Military School, and I believe tomorrow and through the very University of Defence and Security and conveying these experiences to future generations of Croatian Armed Forces. As for these other missions, briefly, as far as Poland and the UN itself are concerned, here are the anti-mining forces, normally that participation in some missions that we see may be some closer benefit for the Republic of Croatia, we must participate in UN missions and some missions that may be far beyond the Republic of Croatia, only to work on the alliance itself, and on the global presence and protection of the external borders of alliances as is happening in Poland, but also the very interest of NATO itself to be in the Eastern crisis of the alliance and in Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia and Poland as well as in Poland in which we are now sending the armed forces. For the finale, we must always stress this important factor in the development of new abilities and experiences which will, just as our soldiers and members of the armed forces, translate and transfer back to the homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18098	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18099	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, in your discussion, you gave a broader picture, which is why it is important that our soldiers go on peacekeeping missions from the experience of training, and of course it is important to pass on to new generations. It is precisely why you would like to note that during the course of the construction of the Croatian Military University, we also have the Centre for International Military Operations Josip Briski, thereby contributing to the safety of our country and our citizens, and in this case I can say to challenging times of crisis most important, that our citizens feel safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18100	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18101	Thank you, Vice President. I agree, pal, thanks for the line. It is immeasurably important, and that is why it is important that we insist here and that we stand behind our necks a little bit if we need colleagues in the ministry to transform the military university itself into the University of Defence and Security because ultimately this experience that we get from this kind of mission and the peace support operation, when we beat it and return it back to our homeland with all the experiences we have from the Homeland War, I think that this transformation of the Military University and, in my opinion, an urgent establishment of the University of Defence and Security, I think we're going to give a very high quality and important added value to our armed forces, but normally, and create from them what they are today, which is very much worth on the military market, but here tomorrow and in academic terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18102	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18103	Vice-President of the HS, state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I believe that when we talk about sending our soldiers to a peace mission, our Croatian public is well aware of this because, among other things, every debate is being held here in the Parliament, and then a decision is being made here. Also, whenever we discuss the annual defence report, we also discuss here in the Parliament and of course the debate is public. We had one transition from the recipient of international peace assistance, I believe that all of us older remember UNPROFOR, UNCRO and then UNTAES, who was in charge of peaceful reintegration of Eastern Slavonia, which ended in 1998 to be the donor of international peace missions, or the first mission our soldiers participated in, was in Sierra Leone. Then we have Afghanistan, Iraq and now, we are discussing peace missions of Poland, Kosovo, the Mediterranean, or I have the impression that these crisis hotspots are getting closer to our backyard. From Africa and Asia, we are slowly reaching European borders, and we are as a Member State of the EU and therefore have the longest land border, not only Croatia but the EU. Our soldiers in peacekeeping missions participate under the auspices of the UN, the EU and NATO, or the Alliance of Integration, whose members we are, and this was our goal in creating an independent, sovereign and independent state, the first goal was to create a state, and then Euro-Atlantic integration. The objectives of these missions in which our soldiers participate are to build peace, stability and security, as well as the economic prosperity of these countries, or we can say that they are a peaceful and humanitarian character. In these peacekeeping missions, the tasks of our soldiers, depending on the mission to the mission, and that I do not personally list, will be to enable access to humanitarian aid to civilian populations, the safe return of displaced persons, the fight against terrorism, the fight against proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the protection of vessels carrying humanitarian aid, the protection and control of criminal acts of piracy and armed robbery, the development and capabilities of warships of partner countries, the prevention of threats against unexploded mine-explosive assets, the prevention of hybrid threats, etc. By participating in peacekeeping missions, our country is among the responsible members of the international community who are willing to take over its share of the burden in building and preserving international security. By participating in these peace missions, our army is trained and trained with the armies of the states of allies, it receives the necessary knowledge and experience and thus is more ready to respond to the security challenges of today, and the security challenges of today are not missing and are numerous. From war conflicts, terrorist attacks, climate change. elementary accidents and disasters, migrant threats, cyber attacks, etc. A few months, two months ago, we witnessed terrorist attacks in France and Austria. If we take that about 2,000 ISIL warriors have returned from Syria to the EU, it is clear that the threat of Islamic terrorism is increasing. So I think it is important that as a state, we are familiar with all these threats, to work together on these issues with our allies in the EU and NATO, and we can do this this way, through peacekeeping missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18104	We have a few replicas. He's the first honorary representative of Tudjman. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18105	I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Comrade Striker, you mentioned that we were discussing these missions in HS and that shouldn't be controversial. However, qualified discussions on this subject, i.e. committees, exist in order to be qualified to discuss all topics that come into the plenary session, therefore, which is your opinion, i.e. my view that these missions should be discussed in detail on the Committee on Defence and the Committee on National Security, depending on the dimensions we want to discuss, and that the plenary session should be attended by conclusions or presentations of these views which are thoroughly discussed on the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18106	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18107	Dear fellow Tudjman, most of the constituency boards have been filled with a large part of the profession. So one part of our committees as the working bodies of HS will soon receive external representatives who either literally name certain chambers or associations or will be in a public tender that was called a month ago, the Assembly Committee for Selection and Appointing will propose to the Croatian Assembly who is appointed to those committees, and these external members are just the representatives of the profession. I can therefore say that, often at meetings of these working bodies or parliamentary committees, there is a far more high-quality expert debate than at a plenary session where the debate often goes in the direction of demagogy, populism, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18108	The next replica is the respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18109	Thank you, Vice President. It is good that you emphasized your participation in these operations and the very instability and security risks that are getting closer as you have expressed them, and here I support that expression, getting closer to our backyard. So it's always important to point out that just participating in these operations isn't just about protecting some of the interests of others. It is not only the protection of our allies, but it is the protection and normal and social and economic activities that are happening in the Republic of Croatia, because God does not give in the circumstances in which we are in particular here and in the geographical position not to mention Bosnia and Herzegovina, so here is this operation of Mira in Kosovo and how important it is to keep this stability and security in as you say in our backyard, because how quickly this would spill over to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18110	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18111	Comrade Bačić, we are currently in a crisis situation caused by a coronary virus epidemic. Before that, there was a crisis related to the migrant crisis. So the biggest crisis since the Homeland War was just in 2015 related to the migrant crisis, and migrants have come from exactly these insecure areas of Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq and the like. So I think it's important that our army be present where the source of these instabilitys and crises is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18112	The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18113	Here's my thanks, Vice President. Your Honor, here are the witnesses that we've never actually talked about peace again, and we actually have the most armed conflicts in the world right now. Do you think that the Croatian Army is able to respond to the potential challenges of the future through these peace missions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18114	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18115	Well, you've noticed that. Never so many peace initiatives, conferences, and at the same time so many conflicts and instability. And what I stressed in my debate and what worries me is that these crisis hotspots are getting closer to our courtyard of the Mediterranean, Kosovo, Poland. It is these countries that we are discussing today, and that is where we send our Croatian soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18116	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18117	You mentioned that, you often mention that the closer we get to our backyard are the threats they exceed. Not that they're closest, but we're being pushed out on a migrant crisis. We have a time bomb as regards illegal entry into the area of the Bihačka enclave not far from Zagreb. We have problems in Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora, a person where illegal migrants threaten the safety of our citizens, their material goods. People are in fear, and there is no law on the border where the Croatian Army has the possibility. The security of people in these areas should be ensured and nothing is done. And plus that we have not far away, you speak well, in Turkey a few million refugees who will eventually depend on Erdogan's to get up on which foot... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18118	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18119	Dear fellow Bulj, precisely because of all the security challenges, the crisis is good, not that it is good, but it is great that we are members of NATO's alliance and of the European Union. All those who claim it is not good I would like to say where Croatia sees whether it is west or east? And that's why I'm surprised at all of our colleagues who keep discussing how bad it is to be a member of the European Union, it's bad to be a NATO member. So what's the alternative? What is an alternative to these alliances? Are there alliances with the east again? I can't figure it out. I don't understand. Explain to me a little bit. If you're not up for the West, would you like to go east? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18120	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Villa Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18121	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We from the Green-Left bloc Club certainly support international military peacekeeping missions and the participation of the Republic of Croatia and our Armed Forces in these missions. Let me, I hear you fellow MPs louder than myself, we really think it's very valuable that our soldiers and soldiers have the opportunity to practice, to be in a multicultural environment which we think is extremely important with all the dangers that we have experienced among others and that our soldier who was killed in that mission experienced what is, of course, a terrible risk of military work and a great responsibility to this very Parliament when he sends. But what soldiers who take risks and soldiers take but precisely in this multicultural environment. They learn one special skill, which is that as much as we all are on this globe, we are incredibly different, that we have the right to differ and that the HV supports this right to diversity in the name of what is universally common and human. And in this sense, we are pleased that certain missions really contribute to stabilisation, that they really bring peace to these terrible areas of war after so long and that Croatian soldiers participate also soldiers. And of course, they're never big enough wages, and we're glad they're there when they take that kind of risk and make some money. What I'd like if it were possible for Mr. Secretary of State to further explain to me, we didn't understand each other in my replica, means Operation IRINI, which along with SEA GUARDIAN, which gives some kind of support to that action here. I'm interested specifically, but really specific, what does our ship, our sailors do, what does the captain do when he gets a tip because this IRINI action that, it's planes, it's even a satellite used when they get a tip about a particular ship that's full of refugees, I'm interested in concrete procedures? I don't believe it's a secret or you can tell her to the principle level here, if not then it would be good to find out from you here at the National Assembly, not to find out through the Guardian and the outsiders, as we know about the reactions of our police at the border in the "smoker-backs" they do, sometimes our officers are forced to do it very violently, which is certainly not good because it's not good for a man to do these things in secret. I believe our army doesn't have to do this, but I'm interested in what procedure is in international waters, what is NATO's cooperation with the Libyan Coast Guard because it's an IRINI operation, which is the EU, among other things, helping the coast guard to prevent human trafficking, human trafficking, and I'm just really interested in how this operation of ours is in international waters and when it comes to telling us that the plane and satellite have seen that a ship from Libya from this coastal border has crossed international waters, do we then come to our ship and what we do? Are we then returning and calling on the Libyan Coast Guard and giving them what doesn't seem to be a good solution, personally I don't think it's some kind of happiness for those people who already have the last money they have, they put them on bad ships and put them in danger, are our sailors then at risk of making decisions? What are they against their conscience? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18122	Thanks, time. You have a replica, just a moment. Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18123	Thank you, Vice President HS. Comrade Matula, I will refer to this first part of your exposure regarding what you are, to commend that our soldiers will be in a multicultural environment, to convey these experiences of other cultures. A colleague from your club before you also mentioned the importance of exactly the lectures at military universities and others about these experiences and dealings with other cultures, so I am surprised by the discrepancies when we discussed the budget, I don't know if you or your club, it was even an amendment to reduce the funds we invest in learning about the Homeland War on our children, so that those funds would be transferred to civic education. If you're here to praise that it's important to pass on these experiences from military operations and learn it in our universities, where they're better values than learning from our Homeland War. Why are you there against it, and you're here for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18124	Thank you. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18125	Thank you for asking. On civic education, I think we've said everything and there's going to be other topics. I'm going to go back here to what I think in the threats that come after this completely inconspicuous economic crisis that's coming, still with the vaccine, and we don't know how long the covid crisis will take and what damage it'll do. After all that is happening in Africa that is over a billion people who are enough to send these extreme locusts to tens of millions of people not only in Turkey and that, to be almost the Mediterranean Sea flooded, we don't know what threats are ahead of us. In that sense, I think that people who have had a vivid experience of how to calm down a bitter, horny, decommissioned soldier with a right and if our people have managed to calm him down, that extraordinary skill will be in the years ahead of us of great value.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18126	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Rade Simičević's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18127	I would like to thank Vice President HS, State Secretary and Associates, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers. Here is the proposal for a decision on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in UN Peace Support Operations in India and Pakistan, the Western Sahara, Lebanon, and the Operation for Peace in the Mediterranean of a permanent NATO group of anti-mining forces 2, an activity strengthened by NATO's presence in Poland, and support for peace in Somalia and support for the peace of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in KFOR in Kosovo. The participation of the Croatian winning army created in the Homeland War in peacekeeping missions significantly enhances the ability of the Croatian army and the Navy to carry out assigned and international missions. The participation of HOS in international operations is in line with the strategic commitment of the Republic of Croatia and Croatia is considered a responsible member of the international community who is willing to take over the most demanding part of responsibility in building and preserving peace in all the missions in which it participates. What is important to stress is that these are not missions where combat operations are and where the Croatian military is not involved in combat activities. It is never easy to send its sons and daughters into different areas, but unfortunately it must also be given that we are a member of the Military Union and responsibility should be assumed when it comes to crises. In the event of a possible threat, it is important to know that we too can count on the assistance of the alliance to which we belong. You remember the beginning of the Homeland War when we were all alone and only thanks to the Croatian man, Croatian patriot at the head with the first Croatian president Dr. With Tudjman we managed to form the Croatian army, organize and win. The Croatian soldier and soldier are proud of their country that in the war they defended their country and defended against Chetnik aggression to actively participate in world peace missions. I don't know how many secretaries of state I managed to count on right now, about 322 members, or soldiers and soldiers, together with material and technical means, should participate in these missions, along with the acquisition of certain experiences in new life opportunities, as well as one segment of the development of the Croatian economy. I would also like to stress here that we have the agreement of the President of the Republic and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Mr Zoran Milanovic that our armed forces are actively participating in peacekeeping missions. And now it is up to us representatives and MPs to make this decision that the Croatian Army can participate in peacekeeping missions. In the end, I want all the soldiers and soldiers all the best in the peace missions, God save them, happiness follows them, and may they continue to be proud of their homeland from which they come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18128	Thank you, too. Mr. Vidovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18129	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Simičević, in principle I agree with everything you have said, but I will be tirelessly repeating further, so you mentioned the development of the Croatian economy through the mission possible, and then you mentioned the acquisition of the experience that it is good that the Croatian army participates at the end of the international missions with what I agree with, what we ask is that it is also on paper, so that we get a clear report on it. We all advocates to establish this standard because we are ultimately responsible for sending our soldiers and soldiers to the international mission, the Parliament decides so that the Assembly should be informed about it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18130	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18131	Thanks for asking. I agree with you absolutely that, perhaps all these proposals may lack reports, especially what you have said and financial reports. We're for transparency like you, and I think the ministry is going to bring it to the council next time for sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18132	Thank you, too. You don't have any more replicas. Mr. Miro Bulj is on his way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18133	Here's what I said on behalf of the club, I'm not getting an answer yet, and I believe it'll end up being won. Through the replica, I received something, which means first of all when we talk about the war missions of Croatian soldiers around the world, whether NATO, whether the UN, through any other operation, we must always say that the Croatian soldier who should first have the Croatian army should play a role in protecting and protecting against the threat of the Croatian people, i.e. Croatian countries. Once again, I am not satisfied with the response to the migrant crisis because simply your colleagues and colleagues mean your policy was Angela Merkel's open door policy towards migrants, but it has changed them, which is the Chancellor of Austria Kurz himself recently and said that there are no more open doors for illegal migrants, with Slovenia sending the Slovenian army to its border towards its borders means to Croatia, even drones, and now this whole migrant crisis and threat is essentially being transferred to the back of a member of the EU that has a large border, we do not have enough police force. And when we talk about peacekeeping missions, then we must not in any way avoid that threat from migrant illegal entry, not because we are not human or inhumane, it is simply a threat to the safety of the Croatian citizens in the Dalmatian area, in the area of the Gorski Kotar, the uncontrollable entry of these people. Tribal to help people humanitarianally? Of course, but the whole burden of European politics and the EU is transferred to the back of the Croatian man. In Dalmatinska Zagora, a recent old man caught him leading through the woods under threat, recently in the Gorski Kotar we have problems of illegal entry. The damages on the vehicles, here in Vrgorec, the man who deals in agriculture stole the car from the garage, found it after 10km and no one paid for the damage. Who's gonna pay for that damage? Understandably, the Croatian state has not caused either the Croatian people or the crisis in Libya or Iraq, nor in Afghanistan, but must not exclusively send our sons to be there only those who will be clay pigeons. We must also have an economic interest above all, but also protection and security of the Croatian people, and security is at risk. I repeat once again threatened and we now have in Bihaćko enclave a time bomb and do not control our border, and we have a 2016 law on the border where the Croatian Government can. The MUP can call on the Croatian military to help strengthen human material and logistics resources at the border to control the border from the uncontrolled entry of illegal migrants that threaten the safety of our citizens in the areas of Gorski Kotar, Like, Zagora of the entire area. I don't know why it's not done. And another very important one, but when we have not declared an exclusive economic belt, which is why we do not strengthen Croatia's coast guard from illegal fishing and endangering our interests and the ecologically endangered part of the Adriatic. If the Italians are already mocking us, if you are so many friends with Tajani Prime Minister Fascist Tajani who constantly usurps our Dalmatia and Istria, which is why at least we do not strengthen that part as much as possible either through drones or through better equipment and control of that part. Of course I repeat again, we cannot just do what Zoran Milanovic did well, that he pulled our army out of Afghanistan and that should be acknowledged. And the Croatian soldier is a pillar of Croatian freedom, telling the Croatian soldier the truth. And we must not deny it at all, and the experiences of the Croatian army in the Homeland War are immeasurable, immeasurable, but the safety of citizens along the Croatian border areas is currently at risk, and it is not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18134	Thank you, too. Mr. Grmoya Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18135	I thought I'd be after Mrs. Boric's representative, she answered first, so I answered, too. Okay, no problem, then I'll go first. [[I see what it says.]] So, fellow Bulj, humanity, yes, but respect for the Croatian state border gives it twice. So, no one can come through the window, no one can come to us without having valid documents. When you want to receive someone into your home it is true for Mrs. Boric, Mrs. Peović, that someone must knock on your door, know where to enter a home, know where to enter the country, across the state border, across the border crossing with the relevant documents, when someone knocks on your door he introduces himself. We will not allow anyone illegally crossing the Croatian border, endangering Croatian citizens and their safety. And that's why we're asking the army to help the Croatian police.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18136	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18137	Not only are we looking for but it is the obligation of the Croatian government to respect the Republic of Croatia's Constitution and to ensure the safety of citizens in that area who are otherwise evicted and forgotten. And, of course, humanity is very important to the people who are in a difficult situation, but that someone enters Croatia as it pops into his mind, as it comes to his mind, and that must not be allowed. No state will allow it. I repeat, Slovenia has put the army at its border, Chancellor Kurz Austrian says publicly no more open-door policies, so far politics has been wrong. You've led the wrong policy by gentlemen from HDZ so far, you've accepted the Marrakech Agreement without debate in this house while even in Germany it's being debated. Everything you've done is that Croatia has the greatest burden of the migrant crisis in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18138	Mr. Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18139	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, I understand your political agenda, but when you talk about the army at the borders, then you must know the first thing, so at this point the MUP RH, and I am not a lawyer to the God of the ruling party, but I simply cannot keep my mouth shut, so the MUP is doing a very good job of keeping the border and with the help of European funds, and you are attacking the EU not giving enough, and the EU is engaged in Greece, and it is known that Europol is doing it. So, I don't see why the constant hysteria and we're constantly going to the army... For what? Well, at the end of the border the army is a socialist invention, that's what the socialist states did, yes. The Western states have always been practically border police and so are we. It's not the situation at this point, it's not the pressure of refugees, nor are we the most affected by the refugee crisis. Let's be objective.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18140	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18141	Your Honor, Vice President. Here is a series of lies from fellow Vidovic, injured by an article. 238. Rules of Procedure. Therefore, it is constantly the very Croatian police that does excellent work that accuses them of committing violence against migrants, and must cover such a limit with a small number of people, so colleague Bulj also proposes what he proposes because Croatian police for small wages are under great effort. Well, these cops here at Mark's Square are saving us for a lousy salary. Croatian police at Croatian borders are also frozen. They need help. They're doing a great job, and you're saying the police don't need help and they don't need... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18142	.../Intruder Radin: Thank you. You took out your replica and you got a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18143	We don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18144	A reminder for Mr. Grmoy doesn't need anyone else right now. ... If you have a need, you have a risk. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18145	Thank you, dear Vice President. Therefore, Article 232 was injured. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Grmoya has just made false statements. I'm not saying anything. As far as the Croatian police are concerned, I am proud of the Croatian police, and what he claims to be some of his observations that I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18146	The same answer as Mr. Grmoya and the same warning because it was a replica. Mrs. Boric. Oh, no, I'm sorry. Mrs. Boric, that replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18147	I just wanted to replicate There's no answer. [[Intruder Radin: Answer to what?]] He gave the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18148	What about the bush? Excuse me, Mrs. Boric. Here, here's the answer, yes. Excuse me. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18149	Col. Vidovic, we by law have an article where the Law on Borders where assistance to the Croatian police can not provide material and technical, human resources, logistics we have the possibility. But the fact that, right now, a migrant cannot enter the European Union, in Slovenia, is illegal. I can't go to Hungary, I can't go to Italy. No one has accepted the Marrakech agreement either. Only in Croatia can I enter. They're going in uncontrollably because we're not controlling the border. What you're saying can't... Gori Kotar, sit down in Dalmatin Zagora. [[You don't understand.]] Probably in the back of where you live soon will come where people are threatened by their safety, their material uncertainty is. The second is that charity line that every man must have. But here we are talking about the state border. No matter what socialism was, it was capitalism, it is important that the Croatian border must be protected for each one. You can't get someone in your house not to knock... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thank you. Mrs. Boric, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18150	Mrs. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18151	Dear Vice President, my replica refers to this dictionary of our fellow men as "falsifying the entire balloon". We're talking peace missions here at this point. So now I don't know which peace mission our army should be working within its own country. On the other hand... well, maybe I'd like to at least respect that we're holding on to a topic somehow, because then each of us here could use a theme. You're talking about the safety of our citizens. What does that have to do with the peace missions we're talking about? And I am deeply sorry that all the great Christians speak in this congregation, for example. The truth is, there's no one knocking on our door and it's breaking through. So our grandfathers, and I believe yours there in Sinj when they went to the field, they left the door unlocked in case someone needed a glass of water or a piece of bread. The way you talk about the safety of our citizens. Excuse me. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18152	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18153	I'd rather say I'm a little Christian, small, very small and smallest and that your emphasis on Christianity and I don't see why. I don't see why you always stress that Christianity. Who mentioned Christianity? I'm talking about the Croatian soldier, the safety of Croatian citizens. Even about security in missions. We have access to uncertainty and our citizens throughout Croatia, mainly those that I have listed the enormous uncertainty of our citizens who have had enough and suffered material damage and economic damage and these people are poor areas, forgotten landscapes and today have huge damages that are material, which are physical. There were people who were literally captured by illegal migrants and who were watered through the woods for several hours. And your emphasis on Christianity, I don't know what's going on? What do you mean? I'm a little believer, nothing, nothing. I don't mention it, nor do I stress it. I'm not stressing that. Like you, being a big socialist, and other socialists don't have millions in their accounts, someone does.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18154	Thank you. Thank you very much. In replicas it's allowed on both sides anyway. Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18155	Mr. Bulj, you represent sovereignty and you call for the servant character of the Croatian Army in Afghanistan, it is a good question in which we were in Afghanistan. At the same time, however, you advocate an increase in repression against migrants who flee from hunger, war and misery. You're calling an army at the border. And I'm asking you, for whose benefit are you calling that army at the border? Why are these people running away? Where are they going? When Merkel had the door open in Germany, we transported them by train, and now we're beating them at the border. This is your colleague Grumoy speaking about the Croatian police, police officers doing a good job. So Croatian police officers write letters to European Human Rights Associations because they can no longer watch beatings at the border of these people, can no longer watch what happens there and for whose benefit this is happening since you are interested in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18156	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mrs. Peovic. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18157	Katherine, yesterday was St. Kate's Day, so I can congratulate you today with a late day. You're absolutely contradictory. Yes, I believe that the Croatian soldier who won the Homeland War, JNA, well-armed, deserves security in international missions and that we are not "gline pigeons" is the first. Secondly, the role of the Croatian state under the Constitution to protect the safety of Croatian citizens throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia both on land and at sea. It is the role of the state, the safety of Croatian citizens. Who can do that? Croatian police, and under the Law on Borders, can be helped by the Croatian Army and that is the constitutional obligation of the Croatian state. As far as the humanitarian line is concerned, who's to blame? It is not the Croatian people's fault that this is happening in Libya, Iraq, Afghanistan. And who closed the border of Slovenia doesn't ask that. Why do we now have a time bomb in Bihac, Turkey? So all the tribas come to Croatia, all the tribas come to Croatia, right, and they threw wire around us?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18158	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18159	Ask that, ask that,... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18160	Mr Kuzmanić
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18161	Thank you very much. Representative Bulj, the army at the border will not solve the problem of migrants. It's something that if you haven't figured it out, I think we should all figure it out. The problem of migrants is a much bigger problem, it is an EU problem, it is not a problem for Croatia, and if we take the army to the borders we will not do anything with it. If it was possible to solve that, it would have been done in Greece, but it wasn't. What's good in something bad, and that's what we're so economically bad that even immigrants don't want to be here, they just pass by, we're so economically devasting this country that even the migrants who get away from Libya, Afghanistan or who knows where, it's not good to stay in Croatia, so we with the army at the borders don't solve anything but what we get extra cost from the Ministry of Defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18162	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18163	You're from the county where I came from, you're from Kaštel, I'm from Sinj, and you know that the Aržana Stone people were literally being captured, you know that in Vrgorec people were being taken from cars,... I can't charge myself. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I get what you're saying, is it the interest of the Republic of Croatia to put all the countries around the wire of the army, that they can't pass, and only you can get to Croatia? Is it Croatia's interest to cross the Croatian border uncontrollably and to have these people live in fear? You can spend the night in the Gorski Kotar in one of those houses that are there at the border... Let's spend the night when you're so brave. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ask these people, these older people how they live in fear of these people. It's not a humanitarian issue, it's a matter of state, the security of its citizens, the security that the police are doing with honor, but we have a constitutional obligation to keep them safe and secure the safety of every citizen in the areas that have been forgotten, ma'am. Don't shout, Boric. Don't make a fuss, [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] It's not one-brained. [[/Intruder: Thank you, thank you.]] which you have imposed for years. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18164	Thank you, Mr. Bull over, he's done with the replicas, and now we're moving on to taking a stand. Now we continue the debate, the first thing I remember is Mrs. Rada Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18166	... The roles of women in peacekeeping missions and operations will be marked by 20 years from a very significant Security Council resolution, which is somehow called 1325, so this is a resolution on women, peace and security, because even before the resolution itself was adopted, it has been seen that it is not equal to having a mission with soldiers only without soldiers or without policemen because building in a country after the conflict is extremely important how it works in a community. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I know from my experience that they have been sued by the Finnish Peace Mission in Kosovo, of course with their best intentions to support women who have been raped in Kosovo as well as culture, it is necessary to know that in countries where peace missions are the most often the patriarchate acts in another way. Imagine how a raped woman would come and report a rape case to a man. So they recognized these differences that women can bring to peace building in communities after the conflict. We all know very well that it is women who, in communities and during the conflict and before conflict, understand what community would be, how community affairs are organised and jobs in the community, those jobs without which, of course, during the war when men are on the battlefields, you know how our women were worried that I don't know that men have enough warm clothes or something like that. The resolution reached is not the only one, several related resolutions were all related to the sexual abuse of women in the war, but with the participation of women in the peace missions. And so there are two key things, one is equal participation of women at all levels of decision-making and at the national level when deciding what our pensions look like, and then on the territory where it happens, and the other was just preventing violence against women and children and older people in those areas. What happened and what is not encouraging is that Croatia, all countries were obliged to make national action plans with measures to implement the resolution of women, peace and security, unfortunately it was four years between the first national action plan and this one, which was finally adopted in September last year. But what we can boast, which is precisely thanks to the pressures of international women from all these organisations that I have cited both the UN and NATO, is that the share of women in Croatian peace missions is increasing. It currently stands at about 6%, which is even more than some political parties are running for pregnant seats. Women have shown, so experience has shown what I was saying that we should learn from our peacekeeping missions how important this participation of women is, as we say, on the ground. to their entry into the community itself. They showed it in Afghanistan, they showed it due to some more and higher functions in the peace missions themselves. It is very important that, even in this proposal now, no matter what pension the mission concerned, let us not forget how important it is for women to participate equally in missions because they also play a role in these missions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18167	Thank you. You have two replicas, the first is Mrs. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18168	I agree with you when you talk about the important role of women in all segments of society as well as in the armed forces. And when you stress that it is very important to create equal conditions and to contain obstacles and violence that happens not only on yesterday when we mark International Day against Violence but every day. And so I was surprised by your criticism that was going towards my amendment, which I asked and received the government's support to provide financial assistance for persecuted Christians and other persons who are in need because 300 million Christians are in pursuit of the report of the papal Foundation "Aid to the church in need" today. Many of them are girls, girls, and women who have been exposed to various terrors, rapes, and murders. Well, we also know that case from Nigeria when 276 students by the Bokoharam terrorist group were kidnapped, I had the chance to hear some of them after they were released and those testimonies were really scary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18169	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18170	My colleague Petir, I'm afraid you've been miscommunicating yourself to the public, so the public has received its own amendment that she doesn't understand that he's part of the development aid. So it seemed that there was a joke whether you meant Christians in Croatia, some other Christians, not Catholics. So you've been doing a little bad communication yourself to see that you really think about where Christians are sub-represented communities, so including women and children that it's that help. But as you put it out there, I must say it sounded racist. So, I'm sorry, I was even defending somewhere and I had to explain that people didn't know which one they were targeting in the budget at all your amendment was referring to. But it's really a little bit interesting that we have a million-and-a-half kuna right for only persecuting Christians, and we've been looking here for development aid to go equally with the peace forces, and maybe for whether it's building schools no matter who goes to those schools or ensure women that after the war they have a chance to do something about it. in those destroyed communities. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18171	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18172	Thank you very much. My colleague Boris, the role of women, Croatian defenders in the Homeland War, is large and numerous women have defended not only for logistical reasons the needs of Croatian soldiers and Croatian defenders, but for numerous were on the first line of defense. Antonela Violić was a werewolf, heroine. We have here, so here is my Sinjana Snježana Jurić Solto, who died at Maslenica and many other women, have played a great role as Croatian defenders and Croatian soldier and we must never forget the great role of Croatian women, and even I said in my debate, my former colleague from the Ines Strenja Linić assembly and others who were through medical staff, and even often, on the first line, they risked their lives to save their lives. So women have in HV in the Homeland War The biggest part, and we shouldn't forget it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18173	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18174	And I didn't question that, and I have a great friend, Vesna Vesna Veteran, with a series of wounds that today is the environmental defender, who defends the Croatian forests from this robbery that happened to us. So women who were on the front lines and today are on the front lines in defense of public goods. And of course, there was a story here about how important it was to recognize that when women are in the peace forces I wouldn't say they have to be dressed in some other color, so if they were known in communities, ask all the soldiers that were, and also such friends I have, here it is, was also an adviser and in a peace mission in Cyprus, that a different relationship when a colleague is with him, don't forget that 50% of the women in each community, don't forget what communities we're going to be in, that it's very important who is sensitizing, whether it's a man or a woman, about some problems that are particularly about women, and that's particularly sexual violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18175	Thank you very much. You have no more replicas. Now, let's get to it, ma'am. Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18176	The budget that was voted yesterday was the budget for which HDZ told everyone in Croatia that there was no money for more pensions although 52% of pensioners live at risk of poverty, no money for a higher minimum wage, only 150 kuna, no money for poor children, 300,000 children living in poverty, at risk of poverty in Croatia, no money to start new jobs, so that people do not leave, 14% of the working-age population has moved out, etc., but has money, has money for NATO missions. A total of €145 million is spent annually on NATO missions alone due to the collapse of public health, young people leaving Croatia, we do not have pensions, etc. Among the 28 NATO members in Europe, Croatia with 1.7% of GDP stands 10th in front of all its neighbours. Germany singles out less of its GDP than Croatia. Croatia, according to the latest data, is one of the members who really singles out quite an abundance of funds and is ranked 10th. The truth is that we are at least investing in equipment and buying new military equipment, but we are going to change that, because from last year we have committed to single out as much as 2% of GDP by 2024. That's 40% of last year's detachment increase. So 40% more of us will be singled out than last year when we took that commitment, and we took it without any discussion, without any instructions, means by decree. And it's not too much for soldiers to understand either soldiers or workers or workers, it's going to spill over on military armored vehicles, on helicopters, meaning on equipment because it's being detected that we're too small. So here's what we're going to do in the budget for the combat vehicle of infantry on the caterpillars of 161 million kuna, for helicopters we're going to set aside 57 million kunas. If I have put on one amendment, therefore that these vehicles are being reduced or completely abolished, that they are being given an Immunological Institute at the time of the crown, not only has the amendment not been accepted, that it is not, that it has been rejected in the debate, but it is not even accepted to discuss it because it is said that they are already approved funds, which we would also have to know in public if the contract was signed or the funds were really approved. So when we entered the NATO alliance, then we were told that we had to join the NATO alliance because otherwise we would need a lot more of our own army and that we should single out about 3% of GDP if we had an independent army. Now we're committed to singleing out 2% of GDP, and the question is, is that a realistic assessment that we should single out 3% from the very beginning? For every soldier in Afghanistan only until 2010. It's spent about half a million kuna. In the framework of NATO for more than a decade, we have participated in the occupation of Afghanistan, so-called Afghanistan. The peace mission, which we paid 55 million kuna a year. Two years ago. We only spent 55 million kuna on 110 members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in Operation RESOLUTE SUSPORT, and another 33 million kuna to strengthen NATO's presence in Poland, we pay around 24 million kuna in Kosovo and in 2019. We join a new mission, the one in Iraq that costs 4.3 million kuna. Three members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in Operation EU SOFIA cost 2 million kuna a year, EU NAVFOR SOMALIA ATLANTA 3.5 million kuna. So when we talk about having no choice but to ask what we're actually getting from that NATO membership? Did we get anything from that NATO membership? Is there anything here for us, any use? Not really. The only thing we opened up to terrorist attacks and had was one of the first terrorist attacks, Islamic on European soil in 1995. which was a direct reaction to Croatia's expropriation by the United States [[Intruder: Thank you]] a prominent member... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] movement. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18177	You have, as far as I can see, two, two replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18178	Dear colleagues, Peovic, speaking about Croatia's NATO membership, I have somehow gained the impression, but perhaps I am wrong, that you are not happy that Croatia is a member of NATO and that you do not think that this should be the case and that we are over-scheduling financial resources without getting anything in return. I would say, however, that Croatia's NATO membership allowed us to strengthen our own national security, and we have influence along with other allies on a complete European and global security strategy, which is not negligible. In addition, Croatia has proved to be a strong advocate for NATO's accession to the Southeast European Union, which is not important to us, we have the longest limit in this part of Europe with BiH, and we know that little, little noises on the border of Macedonia and Albania, and it is important for us to try through those levers that we have retain stability in this part of Europe. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18179	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18180	I know what you're talking about, you're talking about NATO as a collective defense system. We can discuss this, but neither Austria nor Switzerland nor Ireland nor Sweden nor Finland are members of NATO. So we can't say that we have to be in NATO and that it's the only time that we're defending our country and that we have some kind of defense. So that's just not true. If we've argued that by means of funds, we should be at 2-3%, then it's not true again because we've now committed ourselves to single out at least, so we can do more, at least 2%. And being safer is simply not true. So we opened up to terrorist attacks and had one of the first, first Islamic terrorist attacks in Europe because of that extradition. What we really need is to ask a question for whose benefit we are also benefiting our own army, and now our police in these discussions to everyone we've led on the repression that is being conducted over immigrants at the border because cops themselves report that we have cases that I really do. [[Intruder: Time]] humanitarian law violates. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18181	Thank you. Mr. Ante Deur will have his own hearing, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18182	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, honourable representatives and advocates, yes, I welcome you all. Surely the peace mission, peace missions are certainly for the HV one great gain not only in ability, but also for the Republic of Croatia all of these points that we are of support in Kosovo, which is very important for both our neighbourhood and for the complete situation in which we live all these years. The very presence in Poland is personal to me, and I believe for all of us as members of NATO and Poland as one of the very close, close state of the Croatian people very important, but above all Poland as one of the main NATO members. I also believe what we heard from the secretary of state, but also from former Minister Krsticevic and Minister Banozic, HR in Poland is gaining many skills. By all these missions that we are in all of these points, it is already in the Mediterranean and Somalia that we get one security which HV already has one continuity, visibility, as one capable, sure that it can be safe during the time it stays there. I believe that some colleagues of ours who honor NATO membership that it may be more personal activity than personal opinion because the Croatian state, what we have been through in the 1990s, is terrible, without anyone, without anything to defend against such force, which we still have great consequences today, the great pain we bear as a people. Today, in '94, I will mention once again, when the defence minister and the minister of the winning army, as our General Krsticevic said in the United States with, at the time of Minister Perry, when he welcomed the secretary of defence as minister of the winning army with his generals Gotovina, Filipovic, Kapularar, Krsticevic, Lucic and many then generals who had the commanding role, then Croatia joined and joined a large family strong, which is NATO. And that is why, already at that time, meeting Minister Šushak then had a vision where Croatia and President Tudjman, where Croatia must be, and this is the EU and NATO membership that gives us security as a people because, especially here, all of us together, regardless of which parties were as Croatian defenders, we bear a special seal of that time, which is the weaknesses and impotences we carried, but with the strength and vision that the first Croatian president had then created the Croatian army, the Croatian police afterwards and the Croatian army means we are waiting for us. Indeed, I am a man of pride when I listen to where today and how the Croatian army is going and how new abilities, knowledge comes and where our officers can really and by all these missions point to what we have been through and how the Croatian army has been training for the past 25, six years. Today, the Croatian army can truly be proud to point out that it is one force that has the respect of its members. And that's why I was particularly impressed by our mission in Poland, where I'm sure with the world's greatest power to the United States and the host of the Poles who show a special influence that they have as a member of NATO. Here again I want to give great support to this initiative and these decisions, and I think that this is really something that the Croatian state needs in all forms in both economic and social and as a community and people who suffered a lot to really live in one strong today, and we ourselves have to make ourselves one quality self-recognizable. It's up to us and to the leadership and to all the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18183	Thank you very much. You have two replicas, the first line has Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative Deur, you were a Croatian defender, one of the last to come out of Vukovar, and I thank you for that and for your contribution to the defence of Croatia, so that from some of your own experiences and soldiers and persons who have experienced war on their backs you can surely testify to the importance of NATO membership for a particular Member State, especially for Croatia, which is in such a geostrategic environment that is quite thorny and challenging. And I would like to hear your opinion whether it would be different if Croatia had been a NATO member under these circumstances, whether Serbia or anyone else would have attacked us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18185	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18186	Thank you, Your Honor. Surely, you have already given a more or less answer in your question, that the Croatian state was then a NATO member, I believe that no one would have the courage to attack the Croatian state of Croatia because today and for many years now, the Croatian military has shown all its ability and through the region in which we live is the best indicator that today is qualified and that today the Croatian army points to the greatest security in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18187	And Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18188	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, my question is Croatia's participation in the NATO alliance, and it is constantly speculating here that we should not have been a member of the NATO alliance that this alliance brings us nothing. And you are a prominent Croatian defender who created the state and you know that at the beginning of the war when we weren't friends anywhere that we were in trouble, only through certain war activities we made secret friends that we could get both weapons and defend ourselves. And it is normal that today here in the Western Balkans where we are constantly screaming that we should certainly be a member of the NATO Alliance, which is guaranteed that we will continue to have our pride, our country and defend the honor and reputation of what Croatian defenders have created, which is a free and independent state. So, as a defense attorney, what do you think it's good that we're members of the NATO alliance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18189	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18190	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I already said, Minister Sušak and President Tudjman have believed in the 1990s and it was a vision that it was the strongest family in the world and that the Croatian state must be part of it, and I believe that because it is one of the security that we have been through. The Croatian Army has proved to be a winning army, a strong, confident one that has put trust then in the part of the Homeland War and against the great Serb aggression, today in all these missions that it has high quality and with the highest marks it has in praise and respect. Surely I believe you said that individuals don't feel, so as I said, I think it's more activism than personal opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18191	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. Now final on behalf of the SDP will be spoken by Mr. Mako Kuzmanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18192	I thank the vice president of HS. Here today we had the opportunity to hear about everything, and perhaps at least the subject that we were invited to discuss here today, so I would repeat what we are here today and we are these points that are on the agenda, which is participation in these peace missions. He would repeat our position on this issue, which is to support our absolute participation in such peacekeeping missions for the reason that we are an integral part of these organisations, both NATO and the EU and the UN, which organise these missions, and in which we are participating. But right now, I'm listening to all sorts of questions, not to say a little bit of non-stop questions, whether or not we should be a member of NATO. So, of course, what should we be a member of? We compare ourselves with Austria, Switzerland, which are not, so these are the most powerful countries in Europe. Switzerland is not a NATO member because it is more military and security-equipped than going to each other in its environment and is one of the most powerful states. I said in my first presentation, there's no strong industry without a strong state and vice versa. But instead of discussing it, we were discussing that the army was coming out to the border and listening to such nebuloss as to send an army to the border to keep us from migrants. Not that I think the army doesn't have to be at the border or it only takes one day a year. And you know when? When the elections, to keep us from stealing, abuse and manipulation that those who do not pay taxes in our country, vote on behalf of those who pay, then those who pay taxes must flee from their homeland. It is only under these conditions that I would allow the army to go to the borders, not to protect us from migrants who do not even want to be here if they see what condition our economy is for them Croatia is not an interesting destination at all. They have a nice sun and sea, but they don't see that place for their home. Now, we've insisted on something and I'm sure the proposings of this will appreciate it, which is that these missions are a little more transparent. Whether it's a special report or it's going to be contained in an annual defense report that usually goes, we're leaving it to them now to sort of decide. However, this amendment of ours went for only one reason, which is to make it as transparent and that in some way we who are sitting here, and especially those who are members of the Defence Committee know what is happening on these missions, and not that we have some information that 11 missions stand on five pages or whatever, it's really humiliating, and I think the promoter will appreciate it. I hope, too, that in one good spirit, we can conclude that such constructive proposals, which are in the interest of both the Croatian states and Croatian citizens, are always ready to support us, especially with regard to the peace and human missions in which the Croatian military is involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18193	Thank you, too. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18194	I had to react to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so as I could hear from the SDP's Club of Representatives, an officer was injured. 238. It is a nebulous proposal for you to help the police who are at a loss of power, and it is a good suggestion for the Croatian army to come out to defend the Croatian border against Croatian citizens and our countrymen. It's really something amazing. I have testified... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18195	Thank you very much. Of course you have a warning, and you know it. It's kind of humiliating for you to know that it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you well know you're an intelligent man, and yet you do it, humiliating to you. Mrs. Katarina Peovic finished on behalf of the Green-Left bloc.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18196	Here's what I didn't intend to do, but I was encouraged by some of these replications of what I'm saying myself, something else I'd like to answer. First of all, if we're talking about some substance of speech on this subject, and then we're just asking that the report be written a little bit more extensively, I wouldn't say it's some sort of substance debate. When we talk about the SDP as well, I suspect that he is capable of making some radical different policy on this issue because he repeats again the same flossules as we hear from HDZ, which is that we are part of the North Atlantic alliances and that only participation, access to some alliances is good for us. Moreover, it is said that Croatia is not, as it is used in this beautiful term, an attractive destination for immigrants. So maybe in those two statements that we had to join the NATO alliance because it's a good thing in some integration, and on the other hand that even an autoronic criticism is being made that immigrants don't stay with us. One aspect of the policy that the SDP does not seem to be able to understand is that we are not exactly how they say attractive destination or we are not economically, economically powerful, and because it is automatically, serganically without any autonomous policy of access to any kind of integration without being critically questioned. First of all, the SDP should not be given too much importance in this matter, especially if we remember the tragic military detachment of Milanovic's government in August 2015 when the asphalt in Vukovar was poured out by caterpillar tanks, it was also such a demonstration of this eclecticism that we find at the SDP which cannot understand that it should have an autonomous policy on the one hand, and on the other hand that it should do something about the military, the economy or anything else. What I would say to HDZ, therefore, is that these replicas that have appeared in the form of speech are not an activism when we talk about the need for NATO accession, it is not only an activism, although the activism on the part of the speaker is generally used as an insult, although you colleagues and colleagues of activists should greatly appreciate it because it is an activism and even at the root of what you are deeply esteemed, the political activity of some of your idols and your political giants, but when we speak in this negative context of the activation of NATO alliance, therefore, should first be a rational question. And a rational question in a democratic society should be explained not only by a public debate but also by a referendum that you did not allow and did not allow, what is important in a referendum to ask important questions. As we speak now, I think we can also say, what is the point of crying over spilled milk, we are already in NATO alliance, we have no more or we are asking such questions, but we are about to enter the Eurozone, and yet we are not thinking of asking a referendum question as to why we are entering the Eurozone, and then again we will be declaring those who are critical of entering the Eurozone some activists instead of asking things, first as a public debate on democratic principles, that this debate is being conducted, and then really and referendumally asking questions about some important historical moments such as joining the NATO alliance, it did not happen. So, I think it's so important besides what I've singled out, which is that we have a very bad socioeconomic situation where it's even incomprehensible that we can create a consensus in society about the need to strengthen the issue of second-class equipment, military equipment that they deliver here in Croatia, and we pay for it big money, how we can even create a consensus about it, so at a time when we should first work on providing health, insurance, normal diet for everyone, strengthen our agriculture, agricultural production and normal housing. which you didn't allow. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18197	Thank you very much. Now we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first is Mr. Deur, please just tell me which article, so I can manage.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18198	238.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18199	238, I, I must warn you...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18200	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18201	...a, but I think it's a little hard for me, just a little bit, just, just, just so I do, that I talk. I'll give you the word this chronometer stands for. We know that you think the debate is over, so what if they give me a warning, etc., but on your conscience, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18202	Well, I believe, I agree with the esteemed representative that activists are very important for democracy, for society, for better society, and there are a lot of issues where we all demand an activism, but to enter into the form of the ignorance and needs of the Croatian man through the history that we have been through is much more dangerous than activists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18203	Unfortunately, you have a warning because it was a replica. And now Mr. Vidovic will probably have the same fate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18204	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, he's injured. 232.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18205	No more. I'm sorry, it's just, what are you giving? ... An injury? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] A good injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18206	I say, he's hurt. 232.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18207	No, no, I'm not talking, I'm not talking to you, I'm talking, I've been talking to Mrs. ... Now comes the time, here you go. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now time, please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18208	I'm running out of time right now. So, he's injured. 232. It says that the speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. As far as I know the topic of today's agenda is not SDP's policy, the topic is not to raise SDP on certain issues, and the speaker, or colleague Peovic, during her speech, has devoted a good part of her speech to the SDP policy, so I would ask you to have that in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18209	Okay, this one I saw you list the Rules of Procedure. I only have a word to eat, here, I won't give a warning here, but I'll tell you next time I intervene every time someone goes off topic, we'd only talk about it here. So there are topics that require you to say something besides that, right, so I don't see any breach of the Rules of Procedure. But all right, let's move on, Mrs. Devereaux. Here you go, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18210	Yeah, well, I'd like to say that if it's already out, if someone's been told that he didn't stick to the facts, then I should say which ones I think if someone's already pulling a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And secondly, to talk about the subject, so of course the SDP wants to limit the talk of something that just might not be reminded that they solved things and then, to make it look like it was just HDZ's fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18211	Unfortunately, I have to give you a warning because it was a replica. It was a pure replica. Mr. Vidovic was on edge, but this was a pure replica. Sir, please don't, please don't, come on, let's finish this presentation, this point, excuse me, Mr. Zdravko Jakop, the Secretary of State on behalf of the motionor will be the final opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18212	Dear Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18213	Oh, yeah, sorry, sorry, about six points, not about one point, about six points yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18214	Honorable Vice President, Honorable MPs and MPs. Here I would like to thank you, on behalf of the promoters, everyone who participated in today's debate on participation in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in peace support operations and other activities abroad. I would just like to say very briefly that the HV, the Ministry of Defence, is working in accordance with the constitution, laws and positive legal regulations, and we have no dilemmas. What may have been said that I went into some more detail than usual, I did not say perhaps one segment that speaks perhaps of an economic impact, and here there were also issues from parliamentary representatives, I would like to say that participation and our experience suggests that participation in international missions and operations has the potential to promote products and special support for the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia in the recipient countries or in the international environment. So our Croatian soldiers who are equipped with Croatian products and we are very glad that we have managed to reach this stage that our Croatian soldier is fully equipped with personal equipment of Croatian production in a way that promotes these products directly. It can be said here that compared with participation in NATO's forward presence activities, there was a realisation of the sale of military and police helmets, such as Croatian production in those countries and Lithuania and Poland, these are facts. And there's also a sale in Lithuania of special processed fabric for UN uniforms. Perhaps here, I also use the opportunity to say that we directly cooperate with the military industry cluster, but also with the Chamber of Commerce in that context. It was both your question and your respected advocates regarding the reports. We somehow concluded here about this debate that what, they can be more comprehensive, I would say in the framework of the annual report, but in a way that is structurally prepared, so here, we're going to make an effort and make a step there, and in line with all your suggestions. As far as the financial aspect is concerned, I haven't spoken to him that much, but he's, he's seen in the state budget, so all these elements are familiar, public and there's nothing special to add. In the field of lessons learned, I'd say inside the system is doing it relatively well, but certainly, here, listening to you, maybe there's room for it to go car box, here, so we'll try that way. And there was a concrete question here about operation IRINI and Sea Guardian, I can only say from this place that in all these operations or for all operations there are rules of engagement, Roules of engagement, which we are obliged to respect. Also, here, I know that there are people who were previously tied to foreign affairs, and there are also certain possible national restrictions, but I can say freely that there are no examples that our soldier should be ashamed of the procedure, we have always been on the human side, and we have positive examples of the participation of our ships in such activities, to be specific, in saving people from the sea. We even had a situation that our ship, in particular in that operation, was in the role of the command ship when such activities were to be carried out. Here, in short, once again, thank you for all the constructive proposals and we will try to install them, not just in these operations, but in our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18215	You can stay, you have two replicas. The first line has Mr. Mako Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18216	I'd like to thank the distinguished secretary of Jakupa. Here, I'm glad to hear that some of our companies have had direct or indirect benefits from these missions, and that's exactly what I pointed out to you in my debate and on what I want, which is that Croatia is to be an advanced country that exports technology, not a country that imports other people's waste. Turn our Remont Institute in Velika Gorica, save Djur Đaković, I wish we could say that about our shipyards while the shipbuilding site of special facilities in Split was state-owned, i.e. any state that had a greater impact on that. In any case, with the help of the MORH, try to turn our industry, which is unfortunately on the extremity. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18217	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18218	Your Honor, I think I already told this speaker that in the course of the Homeland War we were able to produce mine, let's say four places, here, last year, i.e. We've been able to get it back, so we can now produce it and remount it in at least one place. Also, such an approach is related to others, other places, here, you mentioned Djuro Djakovic even though sometimes someone says that the technique is not perhaps available to the best of those, we would certainly as soldiers, whether, former soldiers or frozen soldiers liked it to be the best one because it is best for our soldier, I am not looking at whether he was at the mission in Croatia or outside, but we also make sure that we help the industry as much as we from this, from this point of view or aspect, make sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18219	And in the end, ma'am. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18220	Well, here's an affirmative question, indeed, what happens in Croatia is mainly denying any form of protectionism in domestic industries that is necessary to bring about the development of a country. No country has developed without state protectionism, and it is exactly the best example you say here, you said, we produce some military equipment, the American state, the US military, the US military with the US state has a lot of contracts, and there's no way of talking about protectionism at all is meant to this way that we're talking about, and when it's mentioned then Đuro Djakovic, why Đuro Đakovic is failing, so I don't think we have at all, if we break that EU operating contract somewhere, I think it'll probably be broken on this issue, but this Treaty on the Functioning of the EU makes it impossible for us any form of state subsidies where we would make any form of protectionism and develop some of our own industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18221	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18222	Thank you very much for that question. I might not say that such contracts may not allow us direct, direct financial support, but certainly no one forbids us to cooperate on a daily even level. So what Moreh's doing is he's working with everyone who's shown an interest in the military industry and I can tell you that Moreh, i.e. Armed forces can make this huge contribution because if you say so now, that we should pay for every experience, every use of our resources, every use of our people, and we are going to meet our producers, then it would be far more demanding for them. Here, that's what we can do, be sure to do it to support, not only in promoting this part of what I originally said, but also in the transport who tests, HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-26-0.u18223	Thank you. Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas and we're done with the debate. I'm closing the debate. .../ Incomprehensible/... We'll vote when the conditions are met, and those conditions should be met tomorrow, when we vote at 10 o'clock. Have a nice afternoon, everybody. Session interrupted at 14.24 hours.
