ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200080	... possible direct or indirect link to the location. [[Specially enabled.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Problems related to availability, quality, organisation, availability and sharing of spatial data are common in many areas, as well as in the system of state administration. Addressing these problems requires measures dealing with standardisation, sharing, sharing and using spatial data. At country level, such and similar problems are addressed through the establishment of national infrastructures, spatial data, a shortened NIP. In order to respond to the above challenges and to speed up development in the field of spatial data, the 2007 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of the infrastructure for spatial information in the European Community has been adopted by the Directive and the Speyer. The Directive and the Speyer shall apply to spatial data owned by public authorities and shall set out which spatial data themes, when and how they should be available, not by seeking new data but by harmonising existing data. The current Law on national infrastructure of spatial data transposed the provisions of the Directive and the Speyer into Croatian legislation. The aim of the NIP is to make spatial data available to the public authority in a simple and understandable manner. The State Geodetic Authority is a national contact point for the NIP and the implementation of the Directive and the Speyer. The law also prescribes the composition of the NIP Council, as well as the obligations and reporting of the national contact point on the implementation of the Directive and the Speyer to the European Commission. The development of NIP has seen its products and platform Geo Portal primarily used by professional users of spatial data. It is therefore recognised the need to educate and familiarise citizens with the NIP and the possibility of using the data it contains. The State Geodetic Administration is in cooperation with NIP entities at the end of 2019. developed the GeoCroatia portal, available at www.geo hrvatska.hr for citizens. The GeoCroatia portal, in a simple, mobile and intuitive way, allows the user to use the official spatial data of NIPP subjects and, with the help of its location, learn about and explore the space surrounding it. GeoCroatia unites, visualizes the spatial data of the NIP entity distributed in 6 thematic areas, environmental quality, land, nature around me, leisure time, areas under protection and pollution nearby. Amendments and additions to this law should be made if last year, Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 1,100 on the harmonisation of the obligation to report on environmental-related legislation, amending the Directive and the Speyer in relation to the reporting obligation to the Member States to the European Commission, has entered into force. That Regulation simplifies and rationalises the monitoring and reporting of Member States or their national contact points responsible for communication with the European Commission and whose role in the Republic of Croatia is played by the State Geodetic Authority while reducing the administrative burden associated with monitoring and reporting. Updated information should be collected in a easier, comparable way, which is less burdensome for all reporting participants. Instead of the current obligation to draw up three-year implementation reports of the Directive and the speedier, an obligation is introduced to update the results of the report on monitoring the establishment of NIP development on the national portals of the Member States, and only the report automatically generates the European Commission is also more precisely defined by its content, the date until which the report is updated, and the way it is made available to the public. This ensures a consistent and comparable approach to EU monitoring and reporting. Furthermore, the marriage officer. 27. They prescribe the establishment of the NIP Council in a way that the councils form representatives of the state administration body as well as the economic community. In order to achieve the more effective work of the council, the composition of the council is amended in a way that, in addition to the members of the council, all representatives of the council are to be proposed by the body of the state administration responsible for the tasks of meteorological and hydrological activities, and is also proposed to appoint the President of the Council from the National Contact Point responsible for the implementation of NIPP development activities, so from the State Geodetic Administration. All transactions relevant for the establishment of the NIP and the implementation of the Directive and the speedier shall be directly or indirectly linked to the national contact point. That proposal would result in greater efficiency in the work of the Council itself, and would link it. the interaction with the national point itself in terms of the establishment of the NIP and the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the Directive and the speedier was even more effective. Furthermore, these changes are exchanged without compensation for spatial data for carrying out tasks that may have an impact on the environment. In order to comply with the State Information Infrastructure Act, it is proposed that the exchange of spatial data at national level should only be governed by the technical protocol between NIPP entities as opposed to the legislation so far, which prescribed the conclusion of an agreement between the national authorities at national level. The existing legal solution remains to be maintained by sharing spatial data between NIP entities and the European Commission body, given that it is prescribed and speedy by the Directive. As regards the draft law in the first reading, the final draft law has not been substantially amended but has only been made explicitly in line with the comments of the HS Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200081	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200082	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Secretary of State, I'm going to take this opportunity to ask you a question that is current, unfortunately it's gone with, from the scene. So, almost a month ago in the City of Zagreb, we were hit by a big earthquake. No one speaks at all, nor does the Minister of Construction, nor does Prime Minister Plenkovic speak of the earthquake, more than 5,000 of our fellow citizens at this time, or are they at home, with relatives, friends, in the Flower Village, having no heating in their homes, I wonder why the state takes almost a month to engage with any help? So we don't have any help in the City of Zagreb for our fellow citizens by the state. I'm not just talking about a law that should be passed as soon as possible, I'm talking about concrete assistance. People are left to themselves, taking down chimneys too expensive in their arrangements. The city is lost. The city is lost. Kalenic is executed. The band is lost. Why doesn't the state react and help the citizens, a month after the earthquake went by? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200083	Thank you very much. It's not really about this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200084	The law on rebuilding buildings with a damaged earthquake in the City of Zagreb and its surroundings is in the works. The working group shall be composed of all relevant experts who may make a maximum contribution to the drafting of the draft law. Two sessions have been set and a lot of comments, suggestions and opinions have been received. The proposal will be ready for public consultation very soon. How quickly it will depend on the most optimal balance between the quality of the draft bill and the speed of production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200085	Thank you. A colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200086	He was injured in 238, I did not ask the lady to give me a learned phrase here by the government, but for which the state did not refer any concrete measure to the citizens of the city of Zagreb in a month. It's been 30 days, people take off their chimneys themselves. The city looks like a wreck. So there's no concrete help, that's what we're interested in. Is it possible that in 30 days the state is unable to make one single measure towards our fellow citizens? Prime Minister Plenkovic didn't say a word about the earthquake two days ago on HTV. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200087	Comrade Maras, please stop. Please stop your colleague Maras. First of all, I tolerated you from speaking out of the question, I didn't give you any notice I could. A representative of the government shouldn't have answered that at all, she replied. You have now abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I give you a warning. ... I absolutely understand you, you have had the opportunity and you have the opportunity in free speech to ask that important question. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's an important question and it concerns a lot of citizens, but there's a form, there's a form, and you know there's that form. Don't break the Rules of Procedure knowingly, come on. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200088	Madam representatives of the Croatian Government. With this law, the infrastructure of spatial information, network services and technology is one of the important things that this wants to solve, but the fact that in the Republic of Croatia teleoperators who set base stations their infrastructure is above the law, put without a building permit, without a valid permit, this allowed them to enlist teleopers. We have a number of problems where the base stations aren't drawn at all, 90% of the base stations don't have any documents at all, at night they're stationed at hospitals, kindergartens, under the windows of people in settlements, uncontrollably. Why do teleoperators not behave in Croatia as in countries where they come from? Why is the Croatian people left to himself?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200089	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200090	I can only say more about what's in the jurisdiction of this law, just as HACOM has provided data on all the base stations on our geo portal NIP, so that we pulled these data into our information system of spatial planning and it serves us a lot for further processing and further spatial planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200091	Thank you. Now that we're done, will the committee's reporters take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200092	Thank you very much. Representatives of the government, respected citizens, mostly who have problems with illegally placed base stations. We see that the coronary crisis is being solved because of health problems, that the entire economy has stopped to preserve the health of our people, has slowed down the entire world economy. However, when we talk about these amendments to the Law on national infrastructure of spatial data in art. 3. Network activities are listed and technologies that put teleopers at the expense of Croatian citizens are listed, setting up illegally violating spatial plans and putting them wherever they think of them. They put them in hospitals, schools, kindergartens, homes for older and powerless, and nobody cares, nobody stops the economy, and nobody cares about people's health because there's no evidence of science. The World Health Organization in 2013 said that the possible cause of the increase in tumours is electromagnetic radiation, and we have no evidence. It's personal to me that I'm not against the development of technology, but it's a priority to our people's health because we need to know that we have an increase in brain tumors in the vicinity of the base cells. Therefore, I think that we first need to arrange our spatial plan for the teleoperators to behave in accordance with their predictive and spatial plans of cities, an example of which I will refer to you in Sinj. The spatial plan says that antenna pillars are set roof 50m, antenna pillars that are 100m away from building land or the last building. A few days ago in my Sinj, dozens of these base stations, in a bakery, in an industrial bakery zone, without asking the consent of anyone. Croatia is the only country in the EU where there is no tribune building permit, and teleoperators in return, as far as we are a corrupt state, how much corruption is booming, the Croatian state has allowed teleopers to have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia 42%. The director, i.e. the director, boasted about it. HT management president that 42% is winning and very little is being reinvested in the Republic of Croatia. They have other models that can be solved, it's an optical network, we have funds in the EU, and that's where the conflict started. The advocacy of our policy towards Germany, meaning the optical cable could thus be built. However, I repeat again, no one is here against the development of technologies, however, we all use technologies, but I think that the priority would be, the distinguished representatives of the government, the health of our people, all day long, telling us here all day long. Be home to our people, keep this triba in line with the measures of headquarters, and as far as the base stations are concerned, it can take people's windows overnight without any consent, in violation of the spatial plans, but Croatia has abolished the building permit. So can you explain to me the government's representatives why Croatia doesn't need a building permit for base stations? If we don't have any evidence that electromagnetic radiation doesn't damage this one, this one has no health damage, and by this government, national health is above all else. Because of the crown of the virus, everything was stopped, we all accepted it, and because of the base stations, and even the church bell towers in Zadar put the base station, in church bell towers that parishioners, bishops, priests would have to be shepherds to us believers, should be managers to teleopers. As a believer, I say it, to hide in a bell tower a base station from the people. It is not acceptable to me as a man and as a believer. And from this should be said that the Croatian state was made with blood, many mothers of my comrades, and the people of you who were in the Homeland War gave their lives to fight for the people, the parliamentary representatives would have to fight for the people, not asking me to stop technology. As possible, here's a question for you to ask the mayor in Brussels, I don't know why, no one has ever made that clear, I don't want a 5G network until the health risks are determined, Brussels, not in, which is why in Slovenia we say we're looking for a moratorium, because of the health of people, same as the coronary virus. So until it's proven scientifically that there's no harmful risk of why we'd basically be setting base stations wherever they fall by heart, by kindergarten, by our people's windows. I've spoken countless times of breaking spatial plans. I'll tell you one example of Nikola Black man who spent his entire working life in Australia, his entire working life, and he invested all his money, his capital, built a house in Sinj, on Radosca, and at night in an unfinished facility, he got a base station next to his grandkids' bedroom, and the man spent his whole life in Australia, and all that money that he earned with his blood, he won his base station, without consent, 5 meters from home. It can only be done in Croatia, and people are not killed for it. First of all, they're not my teammates I know and those mothers I had to go to say their sons died. We're here to protect the people, not to serve the teleopers, we don't want to step on teleopers, but let them behave like they did in the countries where they came from. I asked the prime minister here, he never answered my question. On the topical clock a year and a half ago. Why aren't teleopers in Croatia acting like they're in countries where they come from? Because they have the highest profit, because teleopers are big advertisers and whoever mentions teleopers, of course, have a huge influence in the media. But that's what we're going to talk about, that's our role as Parliamentarians, the people's envoys here. And it's not just in my Sinj, it's in Kaštel, it's in Rogoznica, it's you in Split, it's you in Vodice, it's in Zadar, it's you in Zagreb, it's you wherever in Istria, even Istria has a spatial plan that even solved it as a county that 400 meters from construction, but they don't respect that teleoperators, the only county I have to say it. Now it is an amendment to the Split-Dalmatia County's spatial plan, I have also given the amendment to 400 meters from unbuilt land i.e. proposal to amend and supplement the Split-Dalmatia County spatial plan, 400 meters to set up base stations and of course we must return building permits. If the Triba in Austria is a building permit for setting up antenna pillars and base stations for me, we are in the EU, we are equal or we are servants of teleoperators and banks. We sold and gave them into their hands our infrastructure telecommunication, agricultural land can be bought by foreigners, instead of being processed domestically, GMO products importing harmful products, poor food quality, our agricultural land 800,000 hectares lie untreated. I made that suggestion, too. Turn off the economic belt, we have also made this proposal to protect our Adriatic, nothing is accepted. Well, we're MPs. The antenna pillars and base stations place wherever they want, regardless of health risks, and because of the virus's corona, the whole world, the economy, the chaos, the fear, the people in fear, and as far as the base stations and health risks are concerned, no matter what there is no evidence of harm, there's no evidence that no harm is done, they put them wherever they come up with, hospitals, churches, nursing homes, wherever they come up with it. You allowed them to be your sponsors, you let them do it because you don't have the strength because they're over-influenced, and the triba is being courted by Angela Merkel or anyone. Why the biggest profit, why the most money muse in the Republic of Croatia teleoperate and the banks of our citizens? For what? And they don't accept moratorium on loans and interest. We didn't have the courage to stand by the people, and we have no right to those mothers who buried their sons in the Homeland War and who don't know where their bones are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200093	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Vinko Grgic will speak, I hope more on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200094	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues of this law, is that it prescribes ways and methods of sharing spatial data both within and outside the country. in the EU. National Spatial Data Infrastructure Act 2013 and 2018 The EU Inspire Directive has been transposed into Croatian legislation with the aim of making spatial data available in a simple and understandable way. As a result, a national spatial data infrastructure or NIP abbreviations has been established, and the State Geodetic Authority has become a national contact point for the NIP and the implementation of the Inspire Directive. This law is laid down in order to achieve more effective work, work composition, the composition of the NIP Council made up of representatives of the state administration body, as well as the economic community. It also stipulates that the President of the NIP Council is appointed from the Ministry responsible for the work of the National Contact Point. This law also harmonizes the procedure in part of the exchange of data between NIP entities, and in order to increase the quality of data collection in terms of greater transparency and accessibility. With this law, we are in line with EU directives, and in fact the national level of data remains the same, i.e. no action is launched to correct existing incorrect data. Although the EU does not mention the accuracy and truthfulness of existing databases, it is, on the other hand, unconsciously or consciously forcing us to reform the collection of accurate spatial data and to update them. It is a great need to go to the state level to realize quality data, and according to comments on the presentation of this law, or its first reading, the most important thing about data coordination in the garter and catastra. Someone may be interested in chaos, that chaos rules in ownership books, chaos in incorrect spatial data, chaos in unsettled property, and the worst is the fact that the number of unsolved items is much higher than in previous years. This results in huge losses of several billion kunas a year, and from reality it is a profit, both by states and by legal and physical persons. Let's just look at the number of lawsuits currently being filed in our courts, and we'll all be clear. That is why we are asking the question of the need for a new state measure of space and the settlement of property-law issues. We are also interested in how updated the new data came from the legalisation process of illegally built buildings. Whether they are available and used in a timely manner as the latest and most qualitative data from space. We don't have to tell the fact that whoever has the information, this quality controls its space, but if we haven't already, we need to start with the process of collecting all spatial information, which will be a quality start for a new reform that is very important to us because that will start a long-term process that will present a starting point for quality upgrade in the future. There is an assessment of an institute in the Republic of Croatia that has identified over 400 hectares of unused agricultural land. This land could be processed or used for the production of food within a relatively short period of time. If the population is estimated to need one square meter per day, that is, a hectare can feed 27 people throughout the year, and according to our preliminary calculations, this area of over 400 thousand hectares could potentially feed nearly 11 million people a year. I especially stress this because of the current situation regarding COVID-19. This law should indeed be seen as an initiative for new reforms, not only in collecting and updating new data but also in the need that we can make maximum use of them when planning the strategic decisions that this country should finally take. We will accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200095	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200096	I would like to thank Mr. President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on national spatial data infrastructure at the HDZ Representatives' Club. The more we supported in our first reading, the more we supported from the first reading, as you can see, there were no changes. Speaking of this law, it should be said first of all that the national infrastructure of spatial data is actually a set of data about, which connects to spatial data and are defined location. In a specific way, this is the target data because these are data that we collect, we collect in the way prescribed by the European Inspire Directive and which was adopted in 2007. This Directive was adopted 13 years ago in order to have, in one place in the EU Member States, in the manner prescribed by the Directive itself, data that can be connected, analysed, complemented, coordinated, available to the Member States, and then from those data that have been found in one place before the creation of the national database that was available to it, but in a more difficult form, and this is one exceptional step that was made for all data that can be found in the location to be found in one place. Such data differed at the level of the Inspire Directive in EU Member States 34, and we as a Member State, given our specificity, have added 35 more information relating to the map of minefields in Croatia. In order to operate, process, analyze, it is necessary to establish a central place in Croatia where these data can be pooled in accordance with both the attitude and the obligations arising from the INSPARE Directive in Croatia as a central place of so-called The national contact point defined the State Geodetic Administration, which given the records it owns, which is geographical data, catastrian plans, topographic plans absolutely understandable and we are not in this exception. Therefore, the State Geodetic Authority has taken over the role of the national contact point in which all data are pooled. Even on the websites of the State Geodetic Authority itself, there is a special possibility that all events, all actions done on the basis of and through the national spatial data infrastructure are being monitored. For the first time in Croatia, we met with the obligation to establish the national infrastructure of spatial data in 2007 when the INSPIRE directive was adopted, but at that time we included all those obligations arising from the Member States in our national legislation through the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates and, therefore, informed the Council of the NIP which, in accordance with the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, in which the INSPIRE Directive itself was included by the year 2013, when a special law was adopted which we are now amending. We are now changing it for reasons that, at EU level or at European Parliament and European Council level, a regulation laying down the way and obligation of reporting in the field of legislation in the area of environmental protection, and then the regulation itself mentions the need to amend the INSPIRE Directive itself, and then clearly, in line with our law, where uniform reporting is prescribed at EU Member State level, all those amendments concerning legislation, and related to environmental protection. That's one of the important reasons why we're even getting into this shift. The second is that we prescribe that the President of the Council will practically be a member of the Geodetic Authority or of the National Contact Point, and the third reason that besides 17, I find myself members of the NIP Council to be appointed and appointed, and become a member of the DHMZ, so these were the fundamental reasons why we are entering into an amendment to the law itself in order to bring it in line with the European regulation adopted by the Council and the Parliament of the EU. This is all very good and we are obliged to coordinate the data, but apart from the fact that we rely on the data that is based on the data that is kept in the national measurement and the real estate cataster where the basic land data is good, it has already been said that these basic data are of a quality, that they are really a picture of the terrain. At this point in Croatia, unfortunately we do not have it, we still rely on the large part of the measurement that was done nearly 200, 180 years ago during the Austro-Hungarian period and when the largest part of the catastrian operat in Croatia was created. In the meantime, since our independence, we haven't made a big step in the new state measure and the new real estate cadastre. About 3,500 municipalities in Croatia seem to me in the past 28, 29 years of Croatian sovereignty and independence we have done and made a new cadastrian measurement for everything it seems to me to be 10% to about 370, 380 catastrian municipalities, and of those 370 catastrian municipalities about 100 are already in use, meaning that the exhibition was formed a cadastre and a formed land book. 10% is in the exhibit that we expect should be completed quickly and 10% is only in the works. It is good that by amending the Law on Real Estate and State Measurement, we have made improvements in a way that speeds up the realisation of the new cataster itself and the new land book. I believe that according to a programme that is required to be prepared by the State Geodetic Administration, a rapid dynamic will be created by a new catastrian operative. What are the considerations of the State Geodetic Administration, which is to enter into one accelerated state geodetic measurement that would apply only to building land, I think it is a good approach, because it is exactly 90% of all the changes in land parcels and construction activities that are done precisely on building land, other than in general and which are in that space and the road corridors, and then it is good to improve and speed up such infrastructure works in an asset-legal sense the situation on the particles passing the infrastructure corridors because we are witnessing during the construction and implementation of any roads that are which is the long-term process as property-legal relations are resolved, the extremation procedure etc., etc. In this context, it is very good that yesterday in the Parliament we discussed the Law on Unrated Building Land because we will also solve so far the many dubiosiss that have remained from the time of conversion and privatisation when it comes first to tourist land, hotel complex and camps in Croatia. In this regard, I believe that this law is good, that we have brought it, that we have improved the handling of the NIP and we will support it in the club of HDZ Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200097	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200098	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. So we're talking about national spatial data infrastructure (NIPP). If something in the Republic of Croatia works well, this system works. So here it is, all the people who use this system say it works well. Of course, this is about, first of all, geodetic administrations, geodetics, landowners, catasters, so that's something that's very well networked right now. So the ARCOD system, the Geoportal, that's all that's there today and it works very well. I will also mention the SDGE system, which means the system, means the digital lecture of geodetic elaborates, which makes it extremely easy for anyone who deals with or is connected with geodesia. So this is a law that is good and should be supported in that sense. Here I would still point out some of the things that are related to this, if we still had examples in the Republic of Croatia and it wasn't a cadastre, a lander, a catastran, a catastran that was broken down right with the real situation, we have these, so mistakes. I know one case, now it doesn't matter, specifically which, where even concessions are given descriptively because it doesn't know which particle is because the particles ended up in the sea, they don't know how to overlap it properly and it's one big problem, so that's what needs to be done, but here I'm going to repeat it through the system of e-citizens, via SDG, through the Geoportal, the ARCOD, the thing is pretty, pretty good working. And maybe one more thing, here's a colleague mentioned it, some new measure, so the state measure is welcome because in fact we have a situation today, especially in agricultural land, that we don't know what agricultural land is, which is pastures, which is what Croatian sovereigns are constantly warning about, especially in the context of the crown crisis, we need to put it back into function of agricultural land, so we need to do one relaunch of agricultural production, and to that end we need to make a new measure of agricultural land, a new recording, precisely means new data that might be activated tomorrow, not possibly, because it should be activated tomorrow. And all kinds of agricultural land, here maybe pastures are kind of the most critical because today you don't know what a pasture is, which is not and that's one big problem. So, the law is good, it improves the system, and I'll repeat, if which system works well, it works this way, and here's the last few years that have really managed to make one progress in this field, and here I welcome these measures and this kind of data collection. So Croatian sovereigns will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200099	Thank you very much. We move on to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200100	Thank you very much. The infrastructure of spatial data is a very important document. This law should be the most important thing to them. What's best in the Republic of Croatia as a state is space and space we have to keep, we have to watch out and space must be preserved for future generations. However, I am here with all the problems we have in the space, mainly in the areas of the Dalmatian Zagora examples where there are library and garnery where they are different, it is a huge problem and should be invested. However, I will mention the article again. 3. i.e. Article 3, where the network services and technologies are. In the Republic of Croatia, teleoperatists privatized i.e. With the help of our policy, they privatized our infrastructure. Telecom. And no one pays the right of service or the owners by physical means, if anyone goes through this particle of his land, no one pays that part of the right of service or the right way or the right, I don't know what to call. And I have given the law that teleopers pay what our people, our citizens, our people paid to plant infrastructure, which our merchants and traitors have given to foreign teleopers in full. Privatisation started this HDZ, but ended definitely SDP, he gave absolute power to a foreign teleoperator and now what our people are investing and what pays for their particles, so now you imagine how far along Croatian roads, how far along the local roads, you know what losses are to local self-government that do not pay for the right of service? No one pays the right to serve anyone. Who's got that in their pocket? Teleopers. And of our 555 units of local self-government, 40% of them cannot allow one child to go to kindergarten, for one child in a kindergarten of local self-government, and this telecommunication traffic goes everywhere. So who's paying for it? No one. Why not, I am that you did not accept this law, that they pay the right of service, if they pay in Slovenia EUR 3.00 per meter, why don't they pay in the Republic of Croatia? If a man on Helvo, irrelevant, or in Skradin, or I don't know di, or Straight Kotars or anywhere, goes to his cable particles, why don't they pay him the right of service, and they can turn off the phone, they know that. So, the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia's teleopers is that politics has allowed them to do whatever they want and not thinking about health. I always mention health right now if we're in a health crisis, there's no evidence that the base stations aren't harmful. Do you have proof? There isn't. But even the World Health Organization says 2013. She said that the possible cause of the increase in brain tumors are basic, electromagnetic radiation and they set them wherever they want, but there are no warnings of any, I'm not against, I'm not against the development of technology we all have cell phones, but these phones are also jeopardizing health and the triba to be cautious mostly link with them. And that's a warning sent by the European Commission, which is, all of it, every ministry would have to, let's say, the Ministry of School and Education should have this video that's been recorded talking about the damages of electromagnetic radiation and mobile use. But let's say that we have in Croatia today, let's say that in Zagreb 90% of the base stations don't have a valid license, 90% of it's not clear to me, I'm asking you a question if anyone knows there's an expert here, I'm saying that the law to set up base stations 400 meters, that we should have a building permit, that 400 meters are being placed here in the procedure, it was, we discussed, you didn't accept it, okay. But no one, somebody explain to me why it's so convenient for teleopers, and in other countries it's not like that. Why are they not acting in our country of Croatia as in other countries? And which is why Brussels stopped the example, the mayor stopped the expansion of the 5G network, told me the health of my citizens in front of technology at this point until health risks were proven. Why are we always pushing something against health in Croatia, and now we're referring to the coronary virus? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200101	Thank you very much. Next, the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Pera Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200102	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues, the Final Proposal for the Law amending the National Business Data Infrastructure Act is amended to achieve its effective work by the National Infrastructure Council of National Data Infrastructure. It is a long list of members of the council which points to the importance and broad scope of spatial data, and this bill includes representatives of the public administration body responsible for meteorological and hydrological activities. Meteorological maps and hydrological data will certainly help us to adapt life and the economy to increasingly pronounced climate change both at micro and macro levels. Extreme droughts and floods directly affect the property and health of our citizens' lives, agriculture, tourism and the entire economy. By entering the council and collecting spatial data from this important area, we will certainly increase the quality and coverage of spatial data, and here are more than 80 business information that has a spatial component around us, while recently spatial data has been interpreted and visualized for centuries on analogue paper maps. The techniques of collecting and creating spatial data today are extremely effective. Data are collected faster, simpler and more often, and the result is an extremely large amount of data in space but unfortunately in different models, formats and standards. It is therefore important to establish such a business data infrastructure that through standardised service networks provides spatial data to public institutions, business entities and our citizens. In order to speed up development in spatial data Europe has launched an INSPIRE initiative that connects national business data infrastructures because spatial data needs almost all economic branches, scientific disciplines, and certainly makes up one of the fundamentals of the development of society. Because in many areas of human activity, spatial data is the basis on which new and added values are built. The Croatian NIP must be in line with the development of spatial data infrastructure at European and global level. However, except at national level, NIP must influence the development of spatial data infrastructure and at local level. The relevant law also complies with the INSPIRE Directive and, following the harmonisation of the reporting obligations of Member States or their control, national control points responsible for communication with the European Commission and the role played by the State Geodetic Authority in the Republic of Croatia. Today's society needs to be a spatially qualified society and therefore it is important to standardise data, many benefits of accepting international standards and technical standards of the profession. First of all, data exchange and service costs are reduced, the quality of the spatial data source is better, the number of data users is higher, the data can be re-used in other institutions and can avoid duplication and multiple collection of the same data by different institutions, savings and search times and network services are more easily used. The availability of information on significant locations in digital form also significantly contributes to improving efficiency and reducing costs and analysis and planning of documents, for example in the spatial planning process because everything is digitally in the same format. Of course, the decision-making process has become simpler when basic materials include maps, cadastrian information and other spatial data. There will also be greater transparency, transparency and accountability in the public administration, but we must not forget more business opportunities, for innovation and for the creation of new services and applications based on INSPIRE data, which gives them a European dimension due to identical data across the EU, and hence the potential of exports. The current law also complies with the State Information Infrastructure Act in the part of the exchange of data between NIP entities and here, concluded national spatial data infrastructures should enable effective collection, management, exchange and use, use of spatial data, and here we should work on its further development and encourage sources and data owners to further improve and standardise data for better interoperability of the database, and thus the NIP itself, I will therefore support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200103	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200104	... Yes, we at HSS support the adoption of this law and implementation of the Directive that data, spatial data can be found in one place, especially for attracting investments, for opening new jobs, and in the context of attracting investments, here is one information that at the current stage of designing and modernising the Novska-Nova Gradiška-Brod-Vinkovci railway line and that part of this provides for a number of railway crossings, so it is illogical for me yesterday I received a reply from Minister Butkovic that the crossing points in the Municipality of Staro Petrova Selo between the village, the settlements of Laza Donji-Gornji Crnovci towards Stari Petrova Selo will not work in the nivellation but rather plan a parallel road with the railway and connected to Petrovo Selo Village. [[Specially enabled.]] First, it collects investment, second, it will certainly take 2, 3, 5 years until the spatial plan of the municipality of Staro Petrovo Selo, Brod-Posavina County is changed because these roads are not available I'm asking you... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] change because of the citizens who are against it. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200105	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200106	Thank you very much, dear colleague Vlaovic. I said that this is a set of databases from all spatial and other disciplines, so if we have the right base, we can make good decisions and rightly decisions, we can see if it's cheaper, where there are other roads, whether it's more cost-effective to do one investment or another, and the transition, specifically, I don't know, but since I'm coming from that county, I'll definitely get interested and see how it stands in spatial plans, as it stands in the rail plans, and I'm sure I'll take everything if it's the only and the right solution to see this solution and come to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200107	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200108	Thank you very much, Mr. Cosic. This law in the second reading on amendments to the Law on national infrastructure and spatial data is something that we are harmonising with European legislation and we are allowing us to operate at EU level, but what I wanted to ask you here is one simple question, which is whether it is more necessary to adopt this law or to discuss and adopt a law that would allow a one-year moratorium for Croatian citizens not to pay credit. Here, that's what I want to ask here because in the Croatian Parliament in the procedure we have a bill that was sent by the SDP Representatives Club where citizens would spend a year, and companies, a year moratorium on loans while this crisis is going on. That's what the rulings won't discuss, and this is the law we're discussing. Now tell me, what do you think is more important for Croatian citizens and Croatian companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200109	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200110	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras. Today it is the turn of this law that speaks of this spatial data and it is being passed in the ordinary procedure of HS, and I think it is very important for our citizens and our economy, for all those who make and make decisions and invest under this law, and as far as I know, the government has given a package of measures for March and April and I think with this package of measures regarding both aid and economy and here and here and in the debate is either going to be the Executive Law and everything else, so that the moratorium on credit is certainly one of the points that will probably be discussed in this Assembly and open up when and how likely, the government has dynamics and of course that negotiations must be with banks, as much as it is damage to the economy, to banks, whether they have that, to say, the potential to overcome it all, how they will overcome it, so I believe that there will come a question and so much. Whether it's gonna be a year or three, or I don't know how many months, I can't talk about it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200111	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200112	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, you can now, Miro, here, okay. When we talk about the final draft law amending the Law on national spatial data infrastructure and the law that we need to pass in order to function more effectively and manage the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the availability of information on this, I think that, in the end, very little will be here for a representative who will oppose it, the law will probably be passed almost unanimously. But what I must say is that I simply cannot accept and understand the responsible government that is able to propose laws from its portfolio in HS, construction, spatial planning and certain other segments related to construction, and that in a month since the earthquake that took place on 22.3.2020, there is not one concrete measure that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has directed towards the citizens of the city of Zagreb. So it would be a shame for me to propose, as a representative of the government, this law in HS, and with no measure towards the citizens of the city of Zagreb that has been hit by the biggest disaster since the Homeland War, means colleagues and colleagues, all those who look at us at home today, in front of small screens, that is, of course, the greatest disaster, along with the coronary virus that happens in parallel, but materially, it is currently the biggest disaster and human and every other one that has hit us since the Homeland War and goes parallel to the Coronavirus. And that the government of the Republic of Croatia does not give a grain a little help, not a single measure, for people who are not at home at the moment, and there are thousands. For those who are in houses, but have no living conditions. Hey, you're the department that deals with the housing of our fellow citizens. Are you aware that at this point there are thousands of Zagreb and Zagreb women who do not have hot water in their homes, who have not solved these most fundamental existential problems, which should have been solved by the Ministry of Construction, that I am not talking about that unfortunately in Zagreb things are not working, that the city seems to have been an earthquake yesterday, rather than a month ago, that we have bricks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200113	Comrade Maras, please abuse the Rules of Procedure again. I asked you nicely last time, you're talking about an important topic, but she's not the subject of this law. You can speak of this subject naturally, but when it's foreseen, and it's foreseen on behalf of the clubs that you can talk for five minutes about this subject. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200114	I'm asking you, I don't know if you've noticed a link...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200115	... /Intruder Reiner: I did not notice the link and there is no, please./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200116	...the link is that the ministry is responsible for the recovery of the earthquake in the city of Zagreb by the government. A prime minister who hasn't called in a month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200117	All right, I'm giving you a warning, based on an article. 239.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200118	So you're not letting me talk here about what's bothering 5,000 of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200119	No, however, I have instructed you to only talk about it when you should... /The speakers speak at the same time./... and I repeat this is an important question, an extremely important question, however, last time I told you when to speak and everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200120	So am I to blame for the fact that there's no law in the HS procedure? We suggested the conclusions that the Parliament should draw a week ago why don't you put that on the agenda, Mr. Vice President? Why don't you put that on the agenda? Here's 10 days on the HS agenda, President Jandrokovic, here's what I'm going to give you this material for why we can't talk about it in HS? Tens of thousands of our citizens don't have a home over their heads, they don't have hot water, the city looks like a battlefield, and you're telling me here that I have no right to talk about it in HS. So when are you going to open that topic then?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200121	No, that's not true, I did it to you the last time you broke the Rules of Procedure and now I said yes, that it was an important subject and that I asked you to speak, but when it was foreseen You're supposed to be talking on behalf of the club, here in about an hour, an hour and a half, all the time just that. [[Intruder Maras: When will you put it on the agenda then?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200122	. .... /Invader Maras: You can stop the time, please?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200123	...but don't break... Please don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200124	When are you going to put the agenda point that the counsel club put in the procedure to talk about the earthquake?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200125	In this way, I am the foundation of the article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200126	Wait, are you aware that we've been looking for a debate for 10 days about an earthquake in the Parliament, and that you won't allow it, and that I'm taking the opportunity to have a representative of the government of the Resolute Ministry here to point it out to her and that some of you won't let me speak again. You and Plenkovic cover the nerada of Bandić and Kalinic in the city of Zagreb. Here it is. Don't ask me anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200127	I told you when you can speak according to the Rules of Procedure. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200128	.... /Invader Maras: Don't ask me anything./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200129	...you reject it and you just want to draw attention to yourself, I guess you can't do it any other way. Based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200130	What did you say?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200131	You listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200132	And what it means now is what you say can't be discussed in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200133	The esteemed representative, Dark Tarritash, had a replica. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200134	So, Mr. Maras was talking about an earthquake, one of the elements that is the basis of the NIP Law will be recorded as many damaged objects, how many citizens in the city of Zagreb have no water, how much there is no possibility of a connected sewerage, so the results of the earthquake are spatial data. Maybe Mr. Maras got it a little wrong, but the part where he was discussing the earthquake has something to do with the NIP Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200135	Thank you very much. He's got it all wrong. I told you my colleague, Maras. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go. Comrade Maras, you've been taken from me for the rest of the debate on this subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200136	Thank you very much. So, I'm still going to go with my debate so I can have my five minutes on the NIP Act. I absolutely think that no matter what we have, the coronary virus and the earthquake that we have to discuss other laws because life has not stopped and cannot stop. One of these laws is also this law, so here are the amendments and additions to the NIP Act, in this part it is formally aligned with the directive and some things that are shown through application to be done, done. But what would be good is maybe for the public and for all of us to shed light on the importance of this law. So, what's the spatial data? When I'm using the NIP, people ask me what's wrong with you. I say National Space Data Infrastructure. These spatial data are extremely important, they are extremely important to collect, they are extremely important to collect in the same place and it is an extremely important way to use it and to use it. The spatial data is how many children are born somewhere, the spatial data is how many sufferers there are from some specific diseases from this spatial data at the moment you plan to develop a particular area, take care of it. So the spatial data that will be important will be important how much damage the building in the earthquake in the city of Zagreb, where the damages are larger or smaller. Why? That when you are doing the next spatial plan, make sure that in the areas where the maximum damage occurred, the cause of the earthquake is in the city of Zagreb about always in the same space, since you are not planning a new construction area and a new possibility of construction but something else. So that's all spatial data. The spatial data of one day will be and how much has been infected by the Coronal Virus or COVID-19 as it is in any part because they will be able to read, so they are not only read for the benefit of the design of spatial plans, they are read for the creation of strategies, they are read for the management of space, they are read about in the final line and in the division of election units that will be in the state, they are read one day when we understand that 556 municipalities and cities are too much for one country, that they will have to change there, and you will read them because in these spatial data you know exactly where the store is, so now you have these unfortunate passes that you have a million, so it's not weird, you have a municipality that has a possible ATM, possibly, and maybe, I've said a lot, there's a trade and nothing more. So, people who live here to get their money at all, so they can fill tractors with fuel if they don't have that internal or not, they have to go somewhere. That's all the spatial data. Therefore, this law absolutely always needs to be developed, should be complemented by EU directives because spatial data is being handled by everyone. With spatial data you can also read negatively, those who are prone to different dictatorships will also use the same data they get because they will use it for other things. When you go as you were already mentioned here, let's say the reconstruction of a railroad, the spatial data, how many passengers there were, how many passengers used to go by train, how many people have a car, how many people are gone, that's all spatial data. We somehow consider them healthy for granted, but their importance is extremely great, but there is a problem. The problem is that to the place where they need to be delivered, so it's not the place where you physically deliver them, the one that's the NIP's central point, just says if you need, how many people are connected to the water network in the Pregrada, go to the link that and that one and see for the barrier. The thing is that people aren't up to it, the thing is that people don't really approach it, the thing is that they even get together somewhere and they're standing in a drawer. If you have the data, and they're standing in a drawer, they're not serving anyone at all but burdening you with your drawer. So we will support this law, we think it's important, but we more think it's important for people to develop awareness of the importance of this data to be collected and made available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200137	Thank you very much, we have one replica of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200138	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it's important data and it's important to control the point, it's the State Geodetic Authority, it has quality databases, it's someone's got to fill them up, so here's the time to say in what conditions these employees of the State Geodetic Administration and employees in municipal courts, in the counties, that for years very little has been invested in these premises, in the technique and equipment they work with, and certainly and certain that they need to meet these people and if we want quality data, invest in that system, and also, if we already have the 10% of the catastrian municipalities that have entered into the state of the spatial data with the state of the records, then it's too little and I don't know why it gave up that good model that the State Geodetic Administration along with the county and municipalities is investing in the measurement and the state of the situation, and I think that we need to encourage it again if we want the right database.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200139	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200140	It's very difficult to even talk about something from the resources of the state geodetic administration without touching the catastra and the problem of the catastra. Croatia is a country that has 6% built territory. 6%. We have 3600 catastrian municipalities and we absolutely have that one need of procedure. So, do the measurements, so you publish those measurements, and then it has its own procedure, and just when you did it, life doesn't stop for that time, life goes on for that time. So the real state of the field with the real state that you've made the moment it goes on is already different, but when you've finished the procedure in the cataster, the procedure starts in the garter room and there's no end to it. I am truly truly convinced that one serious project of the construction area, according to that model and everything else, will not be made by then, but in addition, we will not be friends to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200141	Thank you. Now finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200142	Thank you very much. Here, representatives of the Croatian government, respected citizens. I've asked a number of questions here, of course, I won't get an answer. This law amending the Law on national infrastructure of spatial data, of course, that space as I have said is very important, however, I will mention once again, space must be kept, it must be recorded wisely, it must be done according to how many laws are prescribed, but only in the Republic of Croatia I repeat, teleopers are setting up their base stations without, I ask the Government's representative, that the people respond, which is why the base stations are only placed in Croatia without a building permit, set up wherever they come to mind, put them in settled places, end of hospitals, end of schools, kindergartens, and no one has yet proved that electromagnetic radiation is not harmful. And in 2013, the World Health Organization said that the possible cause of the increase in brain tumors and other diseases is electromagnetic, increased electromagnetic radiation. And no one answers this question. I gave the law, they set up base stations wherever they come up with it. A very important question second, why don't they pay the teleoperate service right, but if we have this information, their network activities? To carry out their activities. Why? Why don't they pay the right of service when we've already sold our national interests to foreign teleopers, give our infrastructure to foreign teleopers that our citizens have paid? Why isn't it paid by natural and legal persons, landowners, roads, why isn't it paid? Why do teleopers do that in their countries? And that is that, the largest teleoperate profit and the EU's greatest benefit in which we are calling for equality, only in the Republic of Croatia does they not have a building permit. And that's the problem. Millions, hundreds of millions of kunas damage local self-government, state, state-owned companies, physical and legal and other people where this infrastructure is going that our parents, our people and someone older at the time, who paid, paid very well for the phone infrastructure. Why don't they pay for it? I gave the law, you didn't support it. Why we're always guessing, here's the banks we're guessing is we don't want to put a moratorium on loans here. Why can't a moratorium in other countries on loans, can't we just go from banks and interest for a year? We shouldn't. And the biggest profit has teleopers and banks in the Republic of Croatia. And why aren't teleopers acting in space like in states where they come from? 90% of base stations, Athens pillars, i.e. The base stations in Zagreb are without a valid permit, illegally, you know that. They do whatever they want, and they can't go through with it in HS. So here's what you can sell to strangers. I've been looking for legislation here, amendments, you didn't support, that there's no sale of agricultural land to foreigners. Now we're giving it away. Well, we've asked the IGP to declare that only foreign fleets, fishing vessels, no, they're not doing us any harm on our fish Ford, to preserve our seas, our seas and our overseass, and you didn't accept that either. I've given two laws on telecommunications. And you don't want to accept that. I gave it to protect our domestic producer, ban on imports, transportation and sales and trade in this and the cultivation of GMO products, to protect domestic production, to process 800,000 hectares of agricultural land. And you don't accept that. But even from you from the government came words you're a nerd, I don't know everything you used. Now the paradigm's changing. We're not self-sufficient. Why? Have you sold us for Judah's sheaths, for Judah's sheaths? And that's the problem. Banks, teleopers, foreign multinational companies, Monsanto and similar, may be ashamed of what you have done to the Republic of Croatia and do not work in the interests of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200143	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200144	Final draft law amending the Law on national spatial data infrastructure, second reading, P.Z.E. 835, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on national spatial data infrastructure, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most votes, 107 for and 11 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the National Infrastructure of Spatial Data.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200145	The next item is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Noise Protection Act, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 923. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Honored Tomislav Dulibic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The proposed provisions of the law propose noise protection measures aimed at preventing excessive noise emissions or reducing existing noise levels to the permitted levels while making noise protection compulsory and ensuring the implementation of the national administration of a unit of local and regional self-government and legal and natural persons performing registered activities. The legislative proposal complements and amends the provisions of the applicable law concerning the instruments of harmonisation or ensuring the implementation of EU Regulation 2019/1010 amending certain provisions of Directive 2002/49 EC on the assessment and management of noise from the environment. Consistent compliance with the provisions of specific rules governing the issue of an environmental permit has been carried out, while in the process of issuing an allocation permit, special conditions, confirmations of the main project, building permits or applicable permits, according to the specific law, the sanitary inspector of the State Inspectorate participates in the purpose of determining the conditions or confirmation of compliance with the conditions of noise protection. Furthermore, a new definition of ‘data repositories’ has been introduced, new reporting deadlines are rationalised and new reporting deadlines are set for the European Commission with regard to strategic maps, noises, action plans, the obligation to make available to the public of strategic cards, noises and action plans, which is an obligation to provide updated information by electronic means to the competent authority and the European Commission. The provisions of the law are in line with the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act and the provisions of the State Administration System Act. Following all of this, HS is proposed to adopt this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200147	Thank you. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Bulls. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200148	Thank you very much. We're talking about the impact of noise on the environment, on human health, on the health of nature. Can you tell me the distinguished secretaries on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which, in your opinion, is more dangerous and risky, noise or electromagnetic radiation? I see you'll edit the noise, now they're trimming useful permits, anything that causes noise. Short and clear can you respond as a representative of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia, which is more dangerous and risky to human and environmental health, noise or electromagnetic radiation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200149	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Sladolev. Here you go, Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200150	... That we should respond to the replica. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is a really declassified question and we don't have an answer to, so this kind of question... So you can speak for the club whatever the Rules of Procedure allows, but I really don't think this has anything to do with the amendments and the additions to this law, so there's nothing to answer. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200151	Comrade Bulj, you raised that injured Rules of Procedure? What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200152	Injured, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Chairman, because you cannot allow That someone said from the government that [[Intruder: Next to which point?]] is a deplaced question, which is more risky to health, [[Intruder: Next to which point?]] How much is electromagnetic radiation? [[Intruder: Comrade Bulj, I'm giving you a warning.]] And that deplaced question, when you're guessing exactly you're teleopers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200153	Uh, please stick to the Rules of Procedure, come on. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Sauche.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200154	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, and I'd like to know, if you could explain, Art. 5 says in the procedure of issuing the location permit,... the conditions, etc., through the main project participates... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But, Miro, listen, this may interest you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: Comrade Bulj, calm down and don't get out of the bench, please.]] No, therefore, I am interested in the participation of this sanitary inspector, meaning the participation of the sanitary inspector in the process of issuing building, location and useful permits, whether or not you have taken into account the possibility, whether or not this applies, to what it refers, whether or not it relates, to the conditions of construction. The construction site? Are you aware of how much one site can be a source of noise and how harmful it can be for the health of citizens? So not only these big system noise pollutants, such as roads, railways, etc., but if we're talking about issuing some building permits here, would you maybe, have thought about including regulation of noise produced by a construction site? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200155	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200156	Thank you very much, esteemed parliamentary representative. So this applies, we're just changing jurisdiction, we're not making any other changes, so far the Ministry of Health has been involved, and now the State Inspectorate is participating, there's no change to the existing law in terms of substance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200157	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sauche. Ice cream, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So I have one question for you, about two years ago there were big protests in the town district of Subsident-Vrapce because there Mayor Bandic was thinking of doing a scrapper of construction waste. One of the reasons why people protested was the proximity of the houses, and they felt that the scraper would rightly blow them away and make noise for them. The mayor temporarily gave up that scrap of construction waste, but some new sites have emerged that are happening again, so one of the possible destinations is Jankomir, there is this hospital of St. John, psychiatricly, therefore, will this law of yours prevent such projects, and will these projects have to have permission to do so?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200159	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200160	Thank you very much, esteemed parliamentary representative. So by this law, as it has been so far, so will the future. So they are prescribed by the regulation, which also brings the minister along with the agreement of the Minister of Construction and the Minister for Environmental Protection. It's certain, certain zones, so there are areas where something can be done, in which it can't be done, all of them need permission, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200161	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening the debate and the first one is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club to speak to the esteemed representative Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The Noise Protection Act lays down measures to avoid, prevent or reduce adverse effects on human health caused by noise in the environment. On the occasion of the International Day of awareness of noise, 2017 the European Environment Agency launched a promotion of the idea of an environment without being in Europe as a whole. Part of EU policy is to achieve a high level of health and the environment, and one of the objectives that needs to be pursued is to protect against noise. In the Green Paper on future noise protection policy, the EU Commission has dealt with the noise of the environment as one of the biggest environmental problems in Europe. In 1997, the EU Parliament also called for specific measures and initiatives to be identified by the Environmental Noise Reduction Directive and noted the lack of reliable and comparable data on the state of various sources of noise. It was therefore necessary to develop short, medium and long-term measures to reduce noise produced by the largest sources, especially road and rail vehicles and infrastructures, aircraft, external industrial equipment and mobile machinery. At the same time, joint indicators were selected and this indicator of noise day-night-night, which assesses the disturbance and indicator of night noise, which assesses sleep disturbances. The purpose of the Directive on the assessment and management of noise from the environment is to define a common approach aimed primarily at avoidance, prevention or reduction, according to the priorities of adverse effects including disturbances due to exposure to noise from the environment. To that end, the following measures are gradually implemented, establishing the exposure of noise from the environment by making noise maps, ensuring that noise data from the environment and its effects are made available to the public, making action plans based on the results of noise maps, for the purpose of preventing and reducing noise from the environment, where necessary, and in particular where exposure levels can cause adverse effects on human health, and with a view to preserving the quality of noise from the environment, where it is good. This Directive applies to noise from the environment in which people are exposed, in particular in built areas, in public parks or other quiet areas in populated areas, in quiet areas in nature, in addition to schools, hospitals and other buildings and areas sensitive to the future. Art. 3 Laws, it is prescribed that noise protection measures must prevent excessive noise emissions from being generated. Art. 8 Laws are prescribed to implement noise protection measures in the process of issuing a solution to the acceptability of procedures for the environment and solutions to the uniform conditions of environmental protection. Art. 9th century. 1. The law stipulates that the implementation of noise protection measures is also carried out in the process of issuing a solution to the conditions of construction, location permits, building permits or applicable permits. The proposed law has implemented the wording of the current concepts, introduced a new concept of data repositories, also defined that the strategic maps of noise and action plans are aligned with the changes in the space, or reviewed and, where appropriate, revised in the event of a major change affecting the existing noise situation and that they must be made available to the public in accordance with specific regulations. In accordance with the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act, the Sanitary Inspector shall take part in the determination of the conditions or the confirmation of compliance with the conditions of protection against noise, as those cases relate to the procedures of sanitary supervision of construction. The population should be kept informed of excessive noise and health damage and raise awareness of the importance of prevention and protection against noise. In the short term, noise causes stress, which is the driver of many unwanted consequences for our health, and long-term noise causes deafness or even loss of hearing as a greater handicap in health. For this reason, taking into account the health and noise variables, it is important to regulate this area in particular. The HDZ representative club supports amendments and additions to the Noise Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200163	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be that of the Independent Lists Most, and the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200164	Dear Representative of the Croatian Government. Dear citizens. I'm asking a representative of the government who has now introduced the law between the noise regulation laws. Noise is an environmental problem, noise should also be dealt with in order and... law i.e. The directive we prescribe, of course, should be supported by what is a law that goes better to preserve the environment and health. I ask the man of the government's representative here, which is more dangerous than this area that now wants to regulate is more dangerous to people's health noise or electromagnetic radiation, which is mainly asked by teleoperators who pay for which Croatian government representatives work, he says what kind of a question it is, it's a nebulous question. Well, sir, my dear, the teleoperators and your Ministry of Health favor teleoperators, is 890 times more allowed radiation in the Republic of Croatia than for example. Electromagnetic than in Paris, for example. Answer for what? Why don't you accept amendments to the law to protect our citizens from electromagnetic radiation? As the triba tells people about noise damage that can occur to the environment, to human health, to hearing why not talk about electromagnetic radiation? Why don't you answer the greater threat to noise health or electromagnetic radiation from base stations that are being placed illegally, against regulations, against the law of the Republic of Croatia? And only in the Republic of Croatia teleoperators have as much profit as they have, and that's 42%. 20% have more or 100% higher profits than in other EU countries, even in Serbia-Montenegro they need a building permit. And who will be against the regulation of the law of noise and impact on the environment and on human health? However, in all countries so here in Brussels I mentioned, I am not a man who is against technology, however, but Brussels says Mayor no, not by setting up a 5G network, do I not want my citizens to be experimental rabbits. Neither is this lady against digitization, against advanced technologies, but health above all else. It's the same as in this case of the coronary virus, the entire economy in Croatia only cares about teleopers being protected. For what? Which is why you don't say how dangerous electromagnetic radiation is that it contaminates people with kindergartens for 24 days, children where they're placed next to the base station windows. That's what the Ministry of Health won't answer. The noise can be talked about, can be debated, what is desirable, and the electromagnetic radiation and the teleoper's base cells are not allowed in Croatia to do whatever they want. But this is the state of the Croatian people, not your distinguished secretary that you do not want to answer this question to a parliamentary representative who has been elected by the people to ask you questions. And you're saying that this question is unacceptable, which is a health impact that is more at risk of noise or electromagnetic radiation and increase. Why don't you give the Law on Electromagnetic radiation like this and point to the risks of electromagnetic radiation, so you quote WHO how electromagnetic radiation could be caused by an increase in the number of tumors? Here before we had the agenda point, the only problem in Istria was solved as far as the spatial plan is concerned, and the teleopers probably don't respect the base stations, put them wherever they come up with them, there's a fellow parliamentary representative coming in, so let him say, they're spatially arranged by Istra to make 400m of building land or the last building building not set up the base stations. But therapists don't plummet for that, because they regret it. But that's a hard word, they're sponsors, they don't smell that word... about the noises of the sea to talk, the impact not on the bee, the noise of how it affects the bees, and the electromagnetic radiation from the base cells as it affects the bees can't be talked about. Whether it affects the health of electromagnetic radiation, no problem, can be placed on kindergartens, next to kindergartens, with your windows can be reached by a base station. It doesn't matter to your children how it affects, it can't be talked about. There's no health in front of the telegraphers and their servants, and there's no health. Of course, we all have to be for telecommunications, unfortunately we sold them for the Judna škoda, in the privatisation that started this HDZ, and SDP finished privatising telecommunications and for national interests as well as in the case of INE, HDZ started, SDP started selling with white nights, Slavko Linić HDZ stuck the last nail in the INU in our energy and he does not want to answer here. I am interested in citizens and citizens asking me who live near the base stations, respected secretaries, which is more risky for human health, electromagnetic radiation from the base stations that are now on the roofs around Zagreb 90% of them have no use for permission, they have absolutely nothing, but by putting them in their minds to the man who owns the building or noise. And he says it's a ridiculous question. So what do we have to ask you here? Well, I'm asking you to sort that out, as a professional and competent person of the Ministry of Health. While your minister calls for health above all else, stick to the measure because of the covids, and don't talk about influence, and okay, we all stick to the measures except for those who put in HDZ in nursing homes down in Split, who around 10 days remembered that people triba examine the risky ones who have a temperature. We all stick to it, we're all in a bunker, but teleopers and base stations can't be talked about. As Mrs. Buruxelles could say, the mayor, what it is, in front of her, is that health first and that she does not want her citizens to be test rabbits until facts are established, the professional fact that no harmful electromagnetic radiation was 5G of anything else. How did Switzerland put the moratorium, how did Slovenia put, how many other cities? But in us you keep quiet about it, we have to, yes, develop technology we all support, but whether in front of technology or health, if because of the Covid-19 Coronal virus we stop the whole economy then we also try a little bit on base cells and electromagnetic radiation to see why the increase in brain tumors in the Republic and the world. And the World Health Organization warns, not the triba be very professional it can simply be read by respected experts from the Ministry of Health. And you don't want to answer to the MP, and you don't want to be reminded of it by the chairman who says the cultural question, which is more damage, causes citizens' health, and here I am asking all questions to experts who don't want to answer it as a parliamentary representative. Can someone answer me as big as possible for my health, which is more harmful to the health of citizens and to the environment, electromagnetic radiation or noise? That's what I'm interested in. I'm here to clean up the noise, I'm gonna support the environmental noise, and the electromagnetic radiation can't be talked about because of the base, because of the teleoperator. So I said earlier on the bell towers they put, hey, in the churches of the base station, on the bell towers in Zadar, to hide the bell tower where we go to pray, I as a believer of God, I am a believer, so they allow it, so the priests must be our shepherds, and not promote base stations in populated places without proof of health. And so everyone else, kindergartens, hospitals, people's windows. The whole of Croatia has thousands of hotspots where people oppose what is overnight, the only building permit is not a triba in Croatia and it is not a problem for the Ministry of Health, electromagnetic radiation. You didn't react to what you just said to the Vice President, you could say I don't know, I know, we'll see, I'll send you an answer, but I'll say it's a mess that a man asks, a representative, gave a greater risk of electromagnetic radiation and noise, doesn't respond to that, says how good teleopers are. Of course the Law on the Protection of the Noise of this Directive will support, the environment is important to protect, it's the only thing we have but it's a shame how much you protect the teleopers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200165	Thank you very much. We'll interrupt now and announce the vote at 12 o'clock and 5 minutes. I ask the MPs who will vote in the councilroom to each take their own card because they will not all sit in their usual seats in the council hall, so that they can vote adequately. I'll see you in 12 and 5 minutes. It's 11:00.57.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200166	Here's what we've done with our position, we're going back and we're going back to the agenda point. The next club of MPs who applied for the debate is the GLASs's Club of Representatives, Goran Beus Richembergh, he's gone, then he loses his right. The next club of representatives of the HNS, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected, respected colleagues, respected secretary of state, the Law on Noise Protection, i.e. The changes to the Law on Noise Protection, so these are 4 or 5 amendments to the Law on Noise Protection, so it is a law that protects the public and the public from various sources of noise that has been identified as one of the major threats to the health of the public because exposure to high noise levels can have very harmful consequences because I think that there is a colleague of Celic before talking about it, and said that noise can lead to an increased amount of stress that as such stress is then some kind of precuror for some other further illnesses and this difficulty in health. So what's important about this law is to say that in fact this law defines noise and deals with noise in terms of noise from some kind of system sources, which are roads, railways, it's industry, mostly they're continuously large noise pollutants. However, this law, too, and very explicit lists that are not considered by noise, sources do not consider noise in the sense of this law. In fact, in this way it excludes some of those sources that in everyday, everyday life would be common sense and would continue to lead us into a situation where at such sources of noise we actually have to rely on some other laws that are less effective, which then entail some complicated and long-term proceedings before, for example, construction litigation etc. My opinion, though, that this law is based on European regulation, but if it is not explicit to prohibit it, it would not be bad to think that in some further novels of this law and some other sources of noise here are involved, so that people are made easier by making life easier because other sources can be as long-term and can be fatal to the health of citizens. So, if I wasn't going into the text itself, I don't list the points, I don't think that's the task of any MP, it was Mr. Secretary of State, I would just be there to refer to the article that's talking about so, says about how now it's involved in the process of issuing construction, location and use permits and sanitary inspectors, says, because of the supervision of construction, in such a way that in the process of issuing a building permit or a applicable permit under a special law, the sanitary inspector of the State Inspector is involved in determining the conditions, i.e. confirming compliance with the conditions of noise protection. Now, to me, I must admit, that's what I asked was Mr. Secretary of State, but apparently, I don't know, there wasn't enough time to answer that question. What's this about, exactly? What's that health inspector supposed to do now? What are these new circumstances, new regulations that should be observed when issuing building, location, or useful permits? Whether it concerns the building as such, its, I don't know, quality of building in terms of its protection of those who will live in it from noise or possibly, which I may be so private and hopefully, will eventually approach the problem of being generated by the creation of such a building, so the construction site. I'm aware that the construction site must exist, in order for any building to be built, it must simply be built and that brings down a certain amount of noise. Otherwise, this law, quite interestingly, says that it does not apply in cases where major natural disasters are being removed, for example, as we have now had an earthquake in Zagreb, so in this case this law will not be applied, so there goes from the assumption that there will be some noise that is not common. Now, look, if you have a construction site that, I don't know, takes a year, and you have, like, more because there's, say, some minor construction operations or buildings, I don't know, some family houses, then all right, I think, a year, more or less, we can all just, I don't know, be patient, we can all understand it, we can take it. If I don't know the neighbor repairs, there's something I don't know, procedures on my apartment, everybody lives at the end of it, living in any city, any community, including certain compromises. But what to do in a situation where you just find yourself one day in a situation where you live by a construction site, that someone next to your apartment, your house, open a construction site, and just that site exists, existes for the next, minimum of five years, as long as the Construction Act can last a building permit, and then goes along, and so on, for reasons like this, for such reasons, mostly, one average citizen can find himself in a situation to live next to a construction site, active, and one good 7, 8 years. Here, I know examples of people living by the construction site for over 10 years. And now, I'm just trying to get interested in, I see that, I know that this isn't an overexciting topic or an exciting moment, it's Friday, everyone went home, but just here, I'd like you as a representative of the Ministry of Health to think about, when we're already dealing with noise, how much noise from a construction site, by which someone's forced to live, say, for 10 years can affect someone's quality of life and someone's health. When you start the day at 8 a.m. with the macolates pounding, so somewhere around the afternoon, a little bit of rhythmic is cut I don't know, steel profiles, so in the evening, let's say, about 4:30 a.m. 5, 5 ends the day with the only duet on the number. And you can't do absolutely nothing and for 10 years you can't open your window and for 10 years you can't get any air in that room and the touch that builds it, when you ask him well, how long do you think to do it, then smile in your face and say how long it takes to work. And your citizen, then what? I mean, is someone's quality of life and housing diminished, threatened? It is. Which is, what is the way to protect your rights? To sue the person in question in Croatia in civil litigation? By some laws, I don't know, general about, about mandatory relationships, or whatever, determining some damage. That's impossible. So, from this pay phone, from this place I say impossible. So this is exactly the kind of special law that should give any such unfortunate person who finds himself living next to someone who's been in town for, say, ten years, for example. hotel. Here, amazing but there are examples like that. Right here in Upper Town. A man for 10 years is making his own hotel with 2 to 3 workers. 2 to 3 workers with real macolates, with a proper tool believe it can create more noise than, I don't know, that there are, so there's the same thing as whether there are 2 or 20 of them. And no man like that can stand. And I was kind of hoping that this law was some kind of a solution, to go that way, but no. I mean, I honestly don't know what that sanitary inspector who's going to be taking part in, it's probably gonna be another one of those things that some kind of builder is going to have to satisfy, and it's probably gonna have to pay extra and someone's going to write some kind of study and action plans and I don't know, these kind of plans, these kind of plans, and basically, of all this somewhere on the ground when you come in, when you look at it, there's not going to be anything. Still people will live with 5 or more years at the end of a construction site, and they'll still have their shoulders on it, and when it comes to someone for help, they'll all go down with their shoulders, and this guy's gonna have to have a nice eight in the morning to five in the evening with a macho, a roommate, a flaxer, a pneumatic hammer, with all those giants that make up one site. Here, I had the need to say about it today because this law by itself is, of course, acceptable, it's nice, it's makeupd, it's acceptable, it's going to get unanimous support, here all, most people won't even think about it when it raises its hand to it, it's one of those laws, but every law has its own human background. I'm sorry it hasn't been a little bit deeper and somehow more serious and that there's been some chance of people protecting themselves. Because if we're going to say "is, so I don't know, sue him," then that's why we've got so many unsolved civil litigation cases, that's why everything's as expensive as it is, that's why. Of course, the HNS club will vote for this, I'll vote for this, I mean, no problem, it's just important to start talking about these things, here. And that you think someone's doing something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200168	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Michael Zmajlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200169	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates' club will support this proposal to amend the Noise Protection Act. Of course, questions are raised that may not be regulated by this law, which are also mentioned and showed, in fact, the envious knowledge of construction tools and noises that they produce, but that is actually what is important and what is important, so let's see how each law reflects on the real and concrete life of our citizens. So noise is one of the sources of pollution and noise exposure has been proven and especially in urban areas, resulting in human health violations, which is why there is one such law. So today's man is extremely exposed to noises, noises are also broadcast by means of transport, road transport, rail transport, air transport, maritime and river transport, various plants etc., and all when we have it cumulatively, and given the possibility of human adaptation of the senses, we are often not aware of this noise exposure but in some way affecting our health. This problem is, of course, recognised at EU level and with the aim of reducing this noise pollution, has brought in a number of legislative acts, including the Directive on the assessment and management of noise in the environment requiring the assessment of the situation through the making of noise maps and the development of action plans, and in fact this proposal that we have on our tables is one good work and compliance with those requirements of the directive, so we see that the applicant introduces a new concept of "data repositories" which is actually defined as an information system managed by the European Environment Agency, which contains information and information on noise from the environment that is made available through the national authority and for reporting and exchange of data. It provides for the production of noise maps, action plans and a series of other documents which should then be used as an instrument for adequate implementation of this law or the achievement of certain objectives that are regulated here. However, regardless of what SDP will support this proposal, it should be noted here that, in the future, whether this regulation or some other regulation should answer those questions which are raised in public debate and from citizens, this specifically concerns the question of the acceptability of all these exceptions to the application of this law which are regulated. 1. and which actually gets the impression that citizens are experiencing that in a large number of cases they are actually left to themselves and have to initiate judicial, judicial litigation that often ends either in any way or in a long-term resolution. Therefore, it specifically refers to the exception of noise originating from unregistered facilities, noise created by the use of devices, equipment of maritime facilities, vehicles during sports activities, which is unacceptable for those who live near the motocross track or school football courts used for local football tournaments until deep into the night of summer, etc. The noises caused by domestic or wild animals are, for example, cited by citizens, illegal dog growers and similar facilities or activities. Therefore, citizens also warn about the issue of noise from catering facilities in case the structures are related to other living areas and no sound insulation towards the nearest threatened housing is actually not available, so in addition to this note that in the future and this problem is attempted by this law or some other act, I would like to conclude this debate, once again, that we will support this proposal, but we also stress that it is important to address all these challenges that have been mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200170	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs, the next individual debate is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. He's gone, he's losing his right. Next debate, distinguished representative Ivan Kirin, is missing, losing his right to debate. And the individual final debate, the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras, is gone, losing his right. Finally on behalf of the Proposer, Your Honor, Secretary of State, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want to thank everyone for the constructive debate, but I have come to the conclusion that this issue of Saucha is not answered, so it is regulated, meaning protection from construction sites and other special rules that have already been in force for more than 15 years, there is also a whole problem regulated how much noise is allowed in the housing areas, as much as in the open space, there are the same rules. State Inspectorate, i.e. Sanitary inspectors are here, they are persons who can report this kind of irregularity that citizens suspect more noise than allowed and then they go out on the ground and determine, this just changed the jurisdiction of the district between the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200172	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. We've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. And we continue the session on Wednesday, April 22nd, you will receive a schedule of discussions by electronic means. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend, everyone. Session interrupted at 13.54 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-17-0.u200173	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Noise Protection, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 923. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1.The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Noise Protection and 2.All objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the Final Proposal of the Law". Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the votes are 115 for, 1 abstentions made as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
