ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-1.u19188	We are now moving on to the election, appointments and resolutions, the debate is concluded by the vote of the Decision appointing the members and alternate member of the Management Board for the construction of the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 124 MPs and MPs, 82 for, 3 abstentions, 39 against and thus decided as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. The SDP representative club proposed the following conclusion: ‘The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to amend the composition of the National Development Strategy Management Board until 2030 in such a way as to strengthen the role of HS and its deputy representatives in the development of the National Development Strategy, three representatives from the ruling majority and three from the opposition ranks in order to strengthen the role of HS in the development of the National Development Strategy.’ Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? It voted 128 MPs and MPs, 52 for, 1 abstention, 75 against and thus no proposed conclusion was reached. Final proposal of the Deposit Insurance System Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 53. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that it is unanimous with 126 votes of MPs and MPs, 118 for and 8 abstentions and thus passed the Deposit Insurance System Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-1.u25984	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club because we cannot support these changes to the Law on subsidisation of residential loans because this measure is quite controversial, it was also confirmed by the governor of the CNB who has confirmed here my question whether this measure affects the growth of real estate and confirmed that, that the contributions and the rise in real estate prices, even some colleagues from the ruling majority agreed that this measure contributes to the rise of real estate prices, so that we are doing a bear service to citizens because on the one hand we are helping and subsidising residential loans, and on the other hand we are raising the price of real estate they buy, especially because it worked on the period and measures that it lasts once or twice a month, which reduces the negotiating power of customers and then must buy real estate when the APN tender. At the same time, this government of continuity has not brought any housing policy for 4 years, Croatia is the worst country in the EU since young people leave their parents' home, meaning 32 years old. Age on average, this is what I say to the EU's worst member because young people can't afford it means some kind of affordable housing, they can't, they don't have access to affordable housing. On the other hand, the government gave up the programme of socially stimulating POS housing because of 2019. is only out of 90 million kuna as much as it was in the budget, APN spent 9 million kuna, so 10% of what was in the budget was spent. At the same time that same year as we know the CEO of APN, he bought privileged apartments from POS for himself and his son, so there was a turn in housing policy and in this way measures actually contribute to the fact that public money moved into the profits of banks and real estate sellers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-1.u25985	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Let's now vote on the amendments we discussed earlier in the session. Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-1.u25986	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Please pause on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club, this is about amending the House Loan Subsidy Act. So in the life of one man in the life of a family, there are three things that are extremely important, quality housing, good work, and quality education. When it comes to housing, Croatia has no permanent housing policy. Household policies can be adopted at national level and can be adopted at the level of individual cities. I don't know any city in Croatia that would have a quality housing policy. You have to give this housing policy a variety of opportunities for our fellow citizens to settle their living issue, one of those in the beauty of what should be a way for people to enter sub-citizenship, that sub-citizenship is continuous and subsidized if they need from the state, that the state should deal with it, and then get into credit for buying their property or otherwise because it's their choice, not because they have to. In Croatia, the story with the loan and the way the credit really remained a bitter taste of many of our citizens who took loans in Swiss, which indeed left lasting consequences. So pushing to have a model where young people are forced to take credit is not a good model. Among other things, we had one great measure, and that measure was not to pay taxes to buy the first real estate. Instead of leaving that measure continuously because when you look at the financials, they're absolutely comparable, no, we give up, we make young people go into credit, and we don't have clear housing policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-1.u25987	Thank you, too. The apartment is approved. Now let's go to the amendment statement. The first amendment, two of Maria Selak Rasdic's representatives, the first government does not accept, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The second amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We have one amendment from Parliamentarian Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept it, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of housing loans. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 127 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 40 abstentions and 10 against and thus passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of residential loans. The final proposal for a Law implementing Council Regulation 2017/1939 of 2 October 2017 on the implementation of strengthening cooperation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 85. The promoter is the Government, the debate is closed, the amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Legislatives. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and they became an integral part of the final draft law. I am now voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that, unanimously with 128 votes for the adoption of the Law implementing Council Regulation 2017/1939 of 2 October 2017 on the implementation of strengthening cooperation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office.
