ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184924	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I see a colleague of the coat of arms immediately raised his hand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184925	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDP representative club is looking for a 10-minute break related to this agenda point for the next reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184926	And I can ask you, you can wait for me to open the session to be formally okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184927	Well, you gave me your word, I thought by doing that, you opened the session, but there's no problem, open it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184928	All right, all right, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184929	Thank you. So, a break related to the agenda point that was delivered to us. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The law on probation is prescribed that the government submits a report to the assembly no later than 31 March for the previous year. In this case, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent a report for 2018 to the Croatian Parliament only in January 2020 showing that the Government of the Republic of Croatia knowingly violated the law itself, which was passed by this majority. However, this in itself would not be a problem if it did not come to the week in which we discussed the mid-term report for 2018 even though it is 2020 and is of all the week in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown extreme disrespect to the Croatian Parliament by not delivering an opinion on the law proposed by the authorising officer, and then not sending a representative to a particular debate explaining the position of the Government. This shows that the HDZ government and HDZ most do not experience and accept democracy and parliamentaryism in Croatia at all. This is embarrassing and the SDP advocates' club cannot accept it and will continue to condemn it at any time. We've got a report here that's nine months late, not just in the debate. It is funny that in 2020 we will discuss something that happened in 2018, but it is a much bigger problem that the Government of the Republic of Croatia without any sanctions because Mr Plenkovic says he can do what he wants later. Nine months with a report being delivered and knowingly breaking the law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184930	Thank you very much. Of course I'll take a break by 9:00 and 41 minutes. It's 9:00.31. Here is our colleague and colleague, time of rest, and we will go to the first point and that is: - Report on the work of the probation service for 2018. The Report submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is based on Article. 4. The law of probation. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:44 AM]] The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Justice Department, Juro Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184932	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, you will be presented with a report on the work of the Prosecution Service for 2018. The trial service started in 2011 when the first testing offices were opened. Since then, in a relatively short period, it has become an important factor in the Croatian criminal justice framework. With its quality work and the enforcement of sanctions and measures in the community, it has contributed to the dispensation of the prison system, expanded the opportunities for the imposition and enforcement of sanctions and measures in the community and enabled a large number of convicts with the maximum protection of the social community to exercise criminal justice sanctions at large. Probation service in Croatia is set up as a probation sector within the Department of Prison System and Probation and is made up of a central office within the Ministry of Justice, consisting of one service with 4 departments and 14 local probation offices. At the end of 2018, 106 employees were employed in the Prosecution Sector, of which 14 officials were employed in the Office for Coordination and Development of the Prosecution System and 92 were in the probation offices on the ground practically, yes. There are 14 probationary leaders, the VSS, 63 probationary officers, the VSS and 15 administrative experts with the Soviet Union. A total of 14 male subjects, 13%, were employed in the entire probationary service, while the other persons were female. If we compare the data on the number of employees in 2018 with the data from 2017 when a total of 94 employees were employed in the Prosecution Sector, we see that during 2018 12 new employees were employed in the Prosecution and Public Competitions Sector. What should certainly be pointed out is that all newly employed officials are employed in probationary offices that directly carry out probational work and work with convicts without increasing the number of officials in the central office who administers and manages the entire probation service. It should also be pointed out that the need for new officials stemmed from the expansion of the network of probation offices, i.e. the opening of two new offices in Gospić and the probationary office in Vukovar, as well as the constant increase of new items that the probationary service is taking in n competent treatment. From the very beginning of its operation, the probation service has recorded a constant increase in the number of newly received objects, for example. In 2012, the department received 1571 items for the competent treatment of the service, 2013. 3300, 2014. 3600, 2015 already 3900, 2016 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4200, so the figure is stabilized somewhere on about 4000 newly received items. In the observed period, 2014-2018, the highest number of newly admitted cases concerned general goods, 35%, reports for the court or the detention court, 31%, control of paroled convicts, 20% and 6%, respectively. Of the newly accepted items in 2018, 36% of the cases refer to the judge's report on the execution of parole, 28% of the work for the general good, 15% of the supervision of paroled convicts, 12% of the parole and 9% of the other cases. In addition to the constant increase in the number of cases, it is important to stress that during the observed period the structure of the persons who oversee the probation service has changed significantly, in a way that the probationary service oversees, in particular, in the context of the supervision of paroled convicts and convicts who have committed the most serious criminal offences, such as: Rape, 241 cases, murder convictions and heavy murder 360, assault on the official person 101, robbery 767, unauthorized manufacturing and drug trafficking in 1932, etc. During 2018, the probation service completed 4358 items, which is 34% higher than the number of completed cases during 2017. Compared to the previous year, the probation service improved its rate of success in implementing sanctions and measures in the community from 88.8% in 2017 to 89.6% in 2018. People involved in the trial during 2018, this is interesting data, they did a total of 568 000 hours of work for the general good and in 2017 they did 529. If this data in the number of hours done is multiplied by the minimum price of work through student service, specifically the University of Zagreb, 25 kn, we can say that the persons involved in the trial during 2018 have done socially useful work worth 14, slightly more than 14 million kuna. Those who follow this figure will remember so they will see what the costs of the probation service are at the annual level. They were sentenced to work for the common good, persons involved in the trial, perform a total of 501 legal persons such as homes for older and powerless, hospitals, health homes of convicts, rehabilitation centres, education and inclusions, etc., civil society associations, local self-government units, municipal companies, the Red Cross, Caritas, library schools and the like. In 2018 two new testing offices were opened by Gospić and Vukovar, who immediately began their work. We would like to stress that the premises for the opening of these testing offices were found within the existing capacities of the Ministry of Justice in the buildings of the court that are owned by the Republic of Croatia so that they are not paid rent, and the premises were arranged and did not require any cost of the arrangements of the same. All trial offices other than the trial office in Dubrovnik are located in premises owned by the Republic of Croatia or units of local self-government and are not paid by the probation service. The Dubrovnik Probation Office is located in the FINE building and is paid monthly rent for it. For the normal functioning of the probation service during 2018, a total of 14,230,000 kuna were spent of which the largest part of about 13 million or 92% was spent on the salaries of officials while the remaining amount was spent for the needs of current functioning such as purchase of office supplies, payment of directorial and municipal costs, telephone, post office and the like. During 2017, a total of 11 million were spent to operate the probation service. The increase in the costs of the probation service has been increased by increasing the number of employees and offices, as well as the total increase in salaries of civil servants and subsistence according to the collective contract. What we would also like to point out is that the probationary service through European projects has provided equipment and furniture for testing offices, information equipment, even cars, information systems, promotional materials as well as necessary training for officials, thus saving significant resources for this service in the state budget. In November 2018, a new Prosecution Act was entered into force which, in line with the other criminal rules and implemented a positive practice arising from the execution of probationary tasks as well as recommendations derived from the analyses carried out during the implementation of EU projects. During 2018, 2 projects were approved, one to be financed from the European Social Fund worth EUR 1,207/000 and the other to be financed from the Norwegian Financial Mechanism worth EUR 2,100,000. The first project will provide information equipment for testing offices, criminal authorities and relief and support offices for victims and witnesses and will provide different types of training for officials to improve their work. Under the project to be financed from the Norwegian Financial Mechanism, funds for the permanent implementation of electronic surveillance in the Croatian criminal justice system, car purchase funds, newly opened testing offices, and means to improve security, security conditions in probation offices and improve their infrastructure. The funds from these projects will also be provided for quality development and affirmation in probation services in the Croatian criminal justice framework in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184933	Thank you. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. The first one is the respected representative of Raguž, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184934	The Croatian Presidential Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, the State Secretary, said in your opening address how the Prosecution Service relieves the prison system in the Republic of Croatia. As we recently had a report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions, there were also 11000 indicators of a reduction in the number of prisoners in the Republic of Croatia in 2012 to 2018. As the Prosecution Act was adopted in 2009, and the probation service has been developing since 2011, are these indicators in correlation only with the development of the probation service or other elements contributing to the reduction of the number of prisoners in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184935	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184936	Dear Representative Raguž, therefore there is no dilemma that the development of the probation service has contributed to the discharge of the prison system as such, but it is only one element. Unfortunately, at this point, we have some other factors that reflect on the filling of the prison system and the probation service as such, it is not organized to relieve the digestive system. It just came together. One part of people who violate social standards for the sake of mildness, their conduct, or the need for isolation through this prosecution end up in a probationary service because it is considered sufficient for these people to return to the social community as mended persons, so to speak. So the probation service no doubt contributed to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184937	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184938	... Well, then this kind of probation service is a professional and specialized service within the criminal justice system. [[Specially enabled.]] In 2009, the Law on the Development and Establishment of Prosecution Service in Croatia opened in 2010 the first office, 14 offices opened in 2018 and was withdrawn from the EU funds of EUR 2,800,000 for the organisation of the probation service. All perpetrators of the criminal offences covered by the trial must be trained by specialised psychologists and psychiatrists before joining the sampling system because there are known cases where those who are on probation and supervised freedom are re-increasing the crime. In your opinion, what an aproximative percentage The rectivist? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184939	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184940	Your Honor, it's not a trial, it's a probationary service that can prevent or prevent relapse, it's a number of categories that we can talk about through the prison system, but you're thinking very well. The job of both the prison system and the probationary service is that within the criminal justice framework, they do what society wants, and that is to say that the offenders of social norms that we are fighting by criminal repression, and that, at the end of that process, we get them as better people through the prison and probation system in society, in the working environment and in the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184941	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184942	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm going to ask you a question that I couldn't find an answer to in the report. If you look at page 12 of the figures, you will see that we have a significant deviation in the practice of Probation Services in the Split office and the Varazdin office. Namely, the Varazdin office has more procedures in cases where there is a certain work for the general good of the office in Split, although the Varazdin office covers far less and more surface and per capita areas and although in the area of Međimurje and Varazdin County, which are covered by the Varazdin Office, we have far less criminal acts than we have in the area of Split-Dalmatia County. Also when we know that in Split-Dalmatia County we have the most legal person, only Osijek-Baranja has more, even the City of Zagreb has fewer legal persons where the work for the general good can be done, did you investigate why there are so fewer items in the Split office where there is a certain work for the general good?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184943	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184944	Your Honor, Mr. Grbin. So you know that the prison system and the probation system don't determine what they're going to do, what people are going to come to them, let's call it a Colloquial defence word in the prison or probation system, and that's what criminal courts, courts, state attorneys, and others decide, they come to us when the decision is mature, and then we act on those decisions under the programs that these two prison and probational structures are doing. As for the bodies or legal persons with whom probation services work in Split, Varazdin, we really have one color, we have a very large number of legal persons with whom these people work and hours of work for the common good. We have to have a lot of them since some localities show up to us one time in three years, and we have to say there in a quiet waiting legal person in Grazac and in some less populated areas, and that's why we have a large number of legal persons. And how many hours there will be, that's what the courts decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184945	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rechimer Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184946	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. However, the purpose of probation and resociation is to reduce the risk of repetitive crime. You stated in this 2018 report that you have an insufficient number of operators in the psychosocial treatment community. So I'm curious about what the current situation is, given the report we've been considering since two years ago because this is really important, in fact, the goal of the whole trial? If we do not achieve a resociation and reduction of the risk of a new crime, then we have not reached our goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184947	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184948	Your Honor, I've just confirmed with this one of the replicas what you're now saying. Of course, the point is to uphold all criminal sanctions and the purpose is to implement these measures carried out by the probation service is to get people who have strayed, so those who have sinned on the contract, on the criminal laws, on the laws of all of us as social communities to get them after that process as better and better quality people in society, in the workplace and in their families. Are we in this effectively with 100%? Of course not. And there's not a single society out there that doesn't have a relapser. Is there a bigger number with us than with others? It's very difficult. And we believe the government is in that position that the RS Probation Service is doing a very good and socially beneficial job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184949	The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184950	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The trial service I understand is necessary and I see that you also opened up in Vukovar and Gospić, as useful as you said you received 4200 received, and you solved it in 2018. 4300 items, some 14 million kunas have earned useful work. I think that's a good thing, I'm just asking the question of how much about the percentages of people who worked, do you have any statistics to say 70, 80% no relapsers, and that's the right way? Of course it is good to work on it and how much is it necessary to open a further office in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184951	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184952	Dear representative, that, I think the question is I would say common sense, it's reasonable to ask that question, but we're spinning in this story almost with all these replicas. We're trying to do as best as we can to get those people who are now going through a probationary structure back as rarely as possible. Success is difficult, no one can expect it, we can strive to make 100% of these people not come back again as perpetrator of a crime, but it is simply illusory, recidivism as such is present in all the societies of European continental law that we belong to. The structure of those who commit crimes is very often similar everywhere, families, environments from which they come are similar almost everywhere and 100%-no effect of what tends never to be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184953	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184954	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. A key comment on this report, and it follows from your explanation. Namely, this report was sent to the Croatian Parliament of the Government on 16 January 2020, the Programme Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Norway for the Justice and Home Affairs Programme, as part of the implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2014 to 2021, was signed on 4 June 2019, so last year. Although this is the 2018 report, if you hadn't said that the programme concerned is one of the 4 programmes totalling 19.3 million euros, that one of the programmes relating to improving the capacity of the probation service is worth 2.1 million euros, we wouldn't know it from this report. I resent that this report does not mention, these are significant funds, a very important programme and should have been dedicated at least one page on this programme and the report so that MPs will then know publicly about this programme and what is happening in it in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184955	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184956	Dear Representative, therefore, I have been preparing for this report on behalf of the Government of the Croatian Parliament for the last two days a few times, for 10 minutes. From the perspective of this structure, I wanted to send a clear message to you, but also to our citizens and taxpayers who listen, how much the structure of the probation service spends and how much with this socially beneficial work essentially creates new values for society. And you've seen in this piece of mine that's not there in the main report, that basically we do more with these people, more or less business of caritative nature, in the Red Cross, in nursing homes and spend 13 million kunas on an annual level. So I wanted to let you know that we're worried, that we're trying to spend as little public money as possible, and that's how we compete in these funds to get something for the probation service, so far we've done a lot and we'll do it in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184957	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening a debate and the first one, on behalf of the GLAS Representatives' Club, will speak to Honorable Representative Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184958	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished State Secretary and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have a report on the work of the Prosecution Service for 2018. Indeed, in the opening statement, the State Secretary gave some indicators and some data that are wider than this report and it is good that it is. We usually get the report, the report you're looking at are numbers, some relationships, it's always good to watch what the report is for the past year, and then I can see some shifts, this report on the work of the probation service is extremely important. It's important for the simple reason it shows the state's attitude towards probation, shows how much the state is actually trying to make certain people who have fallen asleep like that, to use some kind of gentle expression, how much they invest in their resociation, in their psychological assistance, at all, that they adapt to the return to the working environment, but also in the family environment. So even in the middle they lived in. We're talking about objects and numbers, they're people. These are some people like any man for whom the officers in the probation service and the whole system have allowed him to return to his working and family environment, not to repeat it again is worth it, there is no such money as it is worth. So that's the effort. We often have reports here that are actually those dry figures, we compare it, these are objects that are solved or not. There are people behind the work of probation service. Women and men, of course, I have to be, no one's going to blame me, on the page. 17 you have these reports, so crimes, then categories and parole, and of 863, 826 is men, 37 women. In all other things there's always a little more women but fortunately for us, it's not here but I really don't want to be inappropriate and comment on it at all. So, a few things I want to emphasize. We have a work report, it's a report made very correctly, it shows which shifts were made compared to before, shows us and how many employees worked, shows us so, you can really compare numbers, we have 1245 legal persons in which it can be done but this report really needs to be looked at in context, about the situation in our judiciary, and in fact where we want society to go, whether we want them to be closed or we want to do something else. And the effort you need to make that every one of them, I'm really using that word "fell" is commendable. It's commendable every conversation, it's commendable to every kuna that's been invested to make someone think I'm saying so in a Colloquial way. But since I love all these numbers so much and I love it especially when you have some cantograms, when you have some indicators, they can actually show some other things. I can show how, because Croatia as you know, we have different situations, we have different population, we have different relationships, and then you can see how much it is in the city of Zagreb, you can see how it is in some county, you can see that, the comparison, I don't know, Dalmatian municipalities and cities and Dalmatian and the Mediterranean part of Croatia and the continental part of Croatia, and as in some other things and in some other cases we see the difference and the efforts that are, as well as the differences and efforts that we can see here. Of course this report on the work of the probation service, we'll support it at the GLAS club but it's good to discuss it, good to show these efforts, good to see what's going on together. It's not easy work, it's hard work, it's hard work, it's not only hard work for these 106 employees, it's hard for all those legal people who are because it requires extra effort, it requires extra energy, it requires extra energy to engage, but I'm absolutely sure, every hour of that extra effort, that extra work, that extra engagement is not wasted. Through the replicas I listened carefully, it was trying to obtain some additional information from the secretary of state. These additional data are hard to get, so some comparisons, some things, you can get that after one time being monitored, you can get that when you do an analysis of the entire system at one level and you really need to look at it in context and prison systems and that we have a situation in the penitentiary. That's what you look at in context with each other, you make comparisons. This report on the work of testing the service basically speaks about what kind of country we are, where we want to go and what we want to do. The shift and progress is this report in contrast, so in this sense it really speaks about some shifts and talks about some activities and, unlike some other things, when we discuss it then we talk about not taking any step forward, it seems to me when it comes to the probation service that these are some good steps forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184959	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Željko Raguž will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184960	President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, state secretary and associate, before us is a comprehensive systematic report on the work of the probation service for 2018 enriched with a number of parameters, comparative indicators and facts on the basis of which we can judge the development of the probation service and its effects in Croatian society. It is good that we recently had a report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia, so these two reports give one full insight into the system of enforcement of criminal sanctions in the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to the report of the probation service system of alternative sanctions in the Republic of Croatia. As we heard the probation service is developing in the Republic of Croatia after the adoption of the 2009 Prosecution Act, since 2011, we have developed probation offices, today we have 14 probation offices covering either 1 county, 2 or 3 counties, depending on the assessment of the needs of the formation of probation offices in the Republic. We have a legislative framework which, in addition to the Law on Prosecution, also includes a number of other laws, criminal law, criminal proceedings, the Law on the execution of prison sentences, a series of recommendations and decisions by the Council of Europe and strategic assessments and plans of the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, a well-organised whole system that provides for that key ambition when it comes to the probationary service that perpetrators of crimes are to be held for up to a year or more in prison or fines can simply remain in the social environment, which will therefore allow after the criminal offence has been committed that there is no more return to criminal offences or that they are kept in that social environment and that the effects of the resociation of the perpetrators of criminal offences are far more effective. I appreciate that it is important to highlight in comparison with the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions and the effective testing service that this is a well-designed service that has therefore entered the legal system of the Republic of Croatia in the framework of the accession of the Republic of Croatia, has taken over the practice not only of the European but also of the United States and that it is about one profitable state service. As the secretary of state said, the total cost for the employees in the probation offices and for the costs of the work of the probation service is about 14 million kuna, which is approximately at the height and the results of the work for the general welfare of those mentioned 586,000 hours. This is important to emphasize and this element can be an example to other services, of course, where there is room to strive in that direction. We also heard that there is a correlation in one part between the development of the probation service and the reduction of the number of prisoners in the Republic of Croatia, which is also a significant indicator that the key ambition of the criminal system in the Republic of Croatia is realised that perpetrators of criminal offences after sanctioning and executing criminal sanctions are resociated into Croatian society, not that there is also ambition in criminal systems to isolate themselves from society. All in all, I repeat one full and systematic report with a number of facts and indicators that merit attention and will be supported by the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184961	The next SDP representative's club is on behalf of which the respected representative, Peja Grbin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I and this debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club must repeat with the remarks I made this morning at the beginning of the session. Therefore, the Prosecution Act stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a trial report by 31 March at the latest for the previous year. The report we are discussing today, the government sent in January 2020, so nearly 10 months. After the deadline prescribed by law, the law proposed by this very government adopted by this particular parliamentary majority. And after the entry into force of the law, the first report by the government was unable to deliver to the Croatian Parliament within the deadline. And that goes on with two bad practices. The first practice is that of discussing the report after two, three or more years have passed, so this week we discussed the report for the first half of 2018. CNB, we are now discussing the 2018 probation service report. This is a completely unacceptable practice, as is the totally unacceptable practice that this government has shown and tolerated by this HDZ majority, which is that parliament is placed in a subordinate position. So we have a report that delivers 10 months. After the deadline, we have nothing, we have a debate in which the government does not want to submit a report on the proposed law or send its participants into the debate, we have the HDZ majority that tolerates it, so the debate on the law on abortion, at this point we do not know when we are going to hold it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is totally unacceptable and shows that the ruling parliamentary democracy does not matter. And this is far more dangerous and far more important for Croatia than the debate on the state of the probation system, and it is my duty and duty to warn my party. But when we talk about this failure, it's not just government responsibility. The fact that the report was delivered to the Croatian Parliament only in January 2020 although it was due to be delivered on 10 months. Earlier, it is the responsibility of the ministry, the Ministry of Justice and the minister who led him, the ministries that have recently proved to be completely incompetent primarily because of the people who are leading him and the fully unbehavied duties he has performed. Well, here, for example. We have this situation, then we have a situation with the Constitutional Court's decision that delayed the application of the High Court, one of the HDZ's most important reforms of the judiciary in this term, we have the fact that even though it was announced in April 2018, the executive law is not in the view that it will be adopted, it was in two debates, it was eventually withdrawn, we do not know at this time what direction it will go in and whether the Executive Law will go into third reading, and ultimately it needs changes and it is related directly to this point, we have complete chaos in the prison system. You've had opportunities to read reports and complaints of the union that represent employees in the prison system, you've had opportunities to read about refugees in Croatian prisons, you've had opportunities to read, you've had opportunities to read about deaths in Croatian prisons, we have a situation that nothing in the ministry's portfolio and the justice minister's office doesn't work, and that's why, instead of talking about the trial report, I have to talk about the lack of the ministry I'm putting up with, and I have to say that the only answer to that is the departure of the current minister because he's simply not up to the function he's acting. And I'm not going to talk about his property cards and problems with them because it's a completely different topic, I'm only talking about how the minister runs the portfolio he's entrusted with. Now back to the trial report. Of course, the trial is important, no one can and should question it, and regardless of some unfortunate cases such as the case where the convicted of millions of corruption is sent to peel potatoes, no one should question the system of sampling as a whole because of these individual cases. Those of us who have studied law and who have dealt with criminal law, we know that the purpose of punishment is not only retribution, the purpose of punishment before retribution should be general prevention, special prevention and rehabilitation. The system which rests on these three foundations and retributions is the system that will ensure that perpetrators of criminal offences do not repeat and that more times in practice and empirical examples have been proven to be high and even drastic penalties are not nearly as dissuasive as the penalties that are certain. So it's better and less punishment, it's better to have a lighter sentence with certainty that these punishments will come than threats to life imprisonments or don't give God in some countries, and from time to time it's mentioned in Croatia, to death sentences. So probation is an excellent mechanism that we need to work on and invest in, but this report shows that we have not yet fully understood it. In the reply to the opening statement, I pointed out to the Secretary of State that there is a certain discrepancy between individual offices that are testing and a serious disrepancy that is visible, for example, to the comparison of the Split and the Varazdin Office. The Varazdin office covers Međimurska and Varazdin County, which have about 270, 280 000 inhabitants. The Split office covers the Split-Dalmatia County, which has 450 000 inhabitants. In these first two counties covered by the Varazdin Office, during the period for which this report was delivered, we have less than 3,000 crimes. In the area of Split-Dalmatia County in the same period of time we have over 4000 crimes and on the other hand the Split office shows a far smaller inflow of objects relating to work for the general good. The Secretary of State's reply shows that the ministry does not first see such discrimination, and secondly, if it sees them at all, it does not enter the reasons behind them at all. Yes, we can hide behind the decisions of the courts, but if it is evident that in a particular area that should have more cases only because of the fact that there are 50% more inhabitants than the other area we have such a reduced inflow of cases, then it should be examined why courts do not determine work for the general good, therefore there should be no determination of the measure at the very heart of the sampling system. If the reason is that in a particular area, only more serious crimes seem to be, if they are made by relapses, and if the work for the common good is shown to be inadequate, nothing at all, let's move on, let's see how then we act on the perpetrators of the crime that they no longer do so. But if the reason for not determining the measures for general good is because judges do not recognise the situations in which they should be determined, and we see from this that there are preconditions in the Split-Dalmatia County that the work for general good is determined because from Osijek-Baranja we have the largest number of legal persons who are willing to receive convicts who are designated for general good, then it is necessary to educate judges, then it is necessary to access judges who judge in criminal cases and explain them, to educate them, which is why the work for the general good is also far better in many situations than a conditional conviction and to determine prison sentence. This is the state's action in the area of criminal law, in the area of the prevention of criminal offences, in the area of a broader criminal policy that we expect from one responsible Justice Ministry. On the other hand, from our Ministry of Justice, we get the answer that they only work with the items that come to them, but at the Ministry of Justice, it is to recognize that there are these problems in practice, to recognize the fact that there is a huge difference in the work of individual offices and to do everything at their disposal, to use all the mechanisms to remove this discrimination. It's responsible work, and that's how the Justice Department should behave. The SDP advocates' club will, of course, accept and support this report because it is only a picture of the situation in the Republic of Croatia, but points out a sharp and serious criticism to those who have submitted it for formal and substantive reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184963	We're going to an individual debate and the first person to come forward is Honored Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184964	Thank you very much. Here after the opening debate and the promoters and clubs, especially now after Peđa Grbin, who gave one review of the whole situation and the effect of the trial in the Republic of Croatia, or the difference between the court and the court, where judges are placed according to the same or similar criminal acts, where there is a need for certain things, I would say that when we adopt such reports and when we speak and adopt law on probation should also be kept in mind about the type of criminal offence or the manner in which this crime took place. Let's say I'm an absolute opponent of probation and work for the general public good in the acts when a criminal offence is committed in the conduct of the government or the duty of whether a state official or official at the level of the unit of local self-government. We saw it myself as a famous case of Cobankovic, where for one terrible crime, although in which Cobankovic was not the main actor, he had just helped former HDZ Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and others to sell one real estate and achieve a large non-acquired property benefit, at the end of the 30th and some million damages the gentleman, the former minister received the penalty of swallowing potatoes and working for the general good in one institution. It's something that's not acceptable especially when we see a whole series of crimes that open up in public space every day. The last case is Chief Nosic of HDZ who played, the question is now whether she only played APN or played her constituents and could not be the chief, it will need to determine exactly what was happening here or, for example, the former CEO in APN who assigned himself to the HDZ's apartment downstairs in Zadar or that gentleman I think from Škabrnja against which the DORH has now launched, so it is an inflation of criminal acts that are being discovered day and day in the conduct of public duty. The fact that one party dominates it, but what I'm saying is that such cases should be severely sanctioned. We are not talking about the testing of potato peeling, here we are talking about that such cases should be nothing more than the most strongly condemned and sanctioned, especially what we have at this time in the city of Zagreb, and these are amendments to the GUP that were submitted yesterday where various parts of the city are being held without public debate, without anyone even being aware of what is going on and that it could be discussed among citizens are changing, turning green areas into building areas and being referred to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184965	Comrade Maras, please, let's stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184966	Well, you can't make me keep my mouth shut about HDZ and Bandic irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184967	No, not just stick to the subject, we're talking about probation service.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184968	Well, the point is that, if it were possible today, if it were possible for us to have a criminal act tomorrow for which someone will swallow potatoes again and have a trial process, you understand me, so on this side of Mr. Reiner don't be angry, I know that you are uncomfortable with the link in Zagreb because you support such a power and because of what it would be possible to have some millions of earnings based on the change in GUP and these amendments, but let me talk about topics that are possible tomorrow related to the link in Zagreb, which is why these guys wouldn't be able to talk and analyze and oppose situations that those who from the public mandate make the criminal act so that tomorrow the gul of potatoes or that they can get away with the penalties of work so much they don't want to do well, so that they don't want to know that they't, when they're able to work for the general and publicly well, they're not, they're not doing, but they're doing the criminal acts, and then they'll be able to do the right to get the right to do the right, After the case, certain procedures are under way from the HDZ government of Ivo Sanader who are not yet completed and which, the question is, when will they be completed and whether justice will ultimately be served. And the worst part is to say that some who are involved in these procedures are satisfied with 10 months or a year somewhere peeling potatoes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184969	Thank you, we have replicas, he is the first respected representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184970	Thank you very much, so, dear colleague Maras, I see that in your debate you have managed to spot everyone who is on some other side of the political spectrum who, who bothers you with penalties, testing etc., so I wanted to ask if you have noticed in the media of a gentleman who is your president, I think Koprivnik-križevci SDP, means not some local but countyal, this gentleman who has reported several hundred real estates, hundreds of thousands of euros of savings with whom you sit neatly in the front rows at the formal sessions which is obviously your good friend, do you have any message for him, since I have read to him, conflict of interest, the Commission of conflict of interest cut off and one of the biggest penalties because as chief and president, as well as your business community, you have signed with your businesses or companies contracts, is justified for you, do you approve or do you have to see it as appropriate, that you have a system, so that you have to see, and to see that you have a proper experience, Same terms. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184971	Thank you, dear representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184972	I see that Mr. Boric didn't realize that you can't get into the sampling system if you didn't commit this crime, so I understand from this now that you would very much like to get into the sampling system, and I suggest the Secretary of State to include Boric in the sampling system because I see that it would be, that he would be very glad to get involved a little bit and to help and to do, to finally start working for public good and general useful things, meaning it would be something that fellow Boric would probably be glad because what he's saying has nothing to do with anything, so that man is not a suspect and punishment for any crime, what is the problem if a man has inherited property, in the end you saw that it was brought to the paradox and the meadow that he gave to the media who can't sign in, so it's not, so you can't even compare the theft and what HDZ ministers are doing with that This man liveth from his work, and inheriteth the meadows, and seeth not what is contentious. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184973	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184974	Honorable representative, distinguished representative Maras, with grief in my heart, I see you attacking Bandic Milan 365 while he was with you, while your member, while he was leading Zagreb along with you he was good, I remember how many criminal charges were on his account at the time when he was with you in power, then none of you lived him that he was a thief, on the contrary you worshiped him all together and served him and protected him, and now that he's gone away from you, he's a boogeyman. But what shocks me even more is you show him as if he were, let's just put it this way, a bigger thief than HDZ, and we know, we know who, who, who's the main thief in the country and I don't really know who should be ashamed of, Bandic HDZ or HDZ Bandic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184975	Thank you, dear representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184976	Give this one here, warn the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184977	I'm running a session of my colleague Maras, I didn't even warn you, and you spoke completely off topic, so don't tell me how to run the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184978	Okay, but you have to be aware that when someone says what you want, you are normal, not to me, but to Pernar, that you should react.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184979	I'm running a session...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184980	Excuse me, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184981	...tell me the answer you want to say or sit down and don't say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184982	Okay, don't support the mess in the assembly, here it is, that's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184983	You're causing a mess in the assembly, but please feel free to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184984	Okay, thank you very much, colleague Pernar, I have never supported Bandić, nor have I led Zagreb with him, so you have made a complete mistake here, that there was a time when, while I was still in the forum of a young member of the same party, but with him fortunately, I did not have any contact with Zagreb's leadership, nor do I support such a style of leadership, leading Zagreb, I learned politics from Ivica Racan and from his moral standards... that absolutely and that is one, that is, and you Mr. Culey can laugh, but that man is one of the biggest politicians living in the Republic and if he hadn't been there, there wouldn't be any Croatian independence and everything and everything, what, what amazing... [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184985	Please, please, first, don't throw it out of the bench first, and secondly, secondly, thank you very much fellow Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184986	...that's, that's one great Croatian policy major Ivica Racan and it's not at all, you're not worthy of mentioning his name, here's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184987	Comrade Maras, thank you very much. Next no, the next debate is the esteemed representative of Željko Raguža, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184988	Today we are talking about the report, about the work of the probation service for 2018, not about our disputes in the political life of the Republic of Croatia and the individual roles of some politicians. It is amazing how people on Friday mornings have the need to talk about something that simply has absolutely nothing to do with the agenda point, how lawyers have the ambition to speak about what judgments courts in certain counties should make, so that their evaluations of the activities of the probationary offices in certain counties agree with the criminal policy in the Republic of Croatia, it is amazing that there is a dispute in the fact that, for example, the work for the general good in the report is most mentioned in the Zagreb County, Osijek and Varazdin area and that this is not brought into any connection with Dubrovnik and Split, but when it is necessary for Varazdin to be highlighted, then it is a logical link. So it's about the stupid manipulations of people who are calling on the legal profession to give some sort of basis for their political manipulation and disqualification of certain parts of the Republic of Croatia. It would be important to return to the subject, hence the work of the probationary service and the fact that the probationary service has followed the perpetrator of the crime since the first reaction of the state's attorney, the judges of the investigators, the decision-making when it is to be taken individually on each perpetrator of the crime, so that the individualisation with all his personalities is done by a number of experts in the probation services, sociologists, educators, lawyers who thus create assumptions that the perpetrator of the crime is returned to the Croatian society and that he is no longer the perpetrator of the crime. In the trial service report, there is an indication that 60 items are in charge of the probationary staff, but that there are differences depending on individual testing offices from 37 to 90 items and this is perfectly normal, logically and there is no need to look for these elements about any regional specificities in the Republic of Split, Varazdin, Zagreb or any other part of the Republic of Croatia. Although part of the role of the opposition is to deny the effects of the government, the current government, including the Ministry of Justice, what cannot be denied is the fact that in the last month we have had two reports, I will repeat this, the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons, educational institutions and the report on the work of the probation service which shows that the criminal system, the prison system, alternative sanctions, on the basis of indicators from the comparative reports compared to the fact that this system is developing in accordance with the European legal tradition, that great successes are made in the development of these systems and those who want to deny these effects will then turn them off and talk about something that has nothing to do with the agenda and this point of the agenda. All in all, that I do not prolong, that I do not give reason to continue in this direction, I appreciate that reports on the work of the probation service show that the Republic of Croatia and in this area have been placed in the community of European states and that any disqualification will not diminish the successes in the work of the Ministry of Justice and the Probation Service of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184989	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184990	Thank you very much. Mr. Raguž, since you're in the topic and you're following it a lot and I'm curious about what the digestive system is like in BiH, here in Mostar, so if you can combine it a little with this report of ours? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184991	Dear Representative Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184992	As we are in the Croatian Parliament and we are talking about the Probation Service in the Republic of Croatia, I will deny you the satisfaction of talking about the probative service in BiH, you will personally inform yourself, so that, on some next occasion, when you turn off the topic of the agenda, you will talk about the probation service in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184993	The next is a replica of the respected representative Damjan Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184994	Dear Representative Raguž of the HDZ, you mentioned how surprised you were at how this is discussed in this assembly on Friday morning. So we're very interested in the Living Wall how do you even know what it's all about on Friday mornings, since you're never here? I don't remember you having any other days, not just Friday. Well, I'd like you to answer that question for me, probably follow up on Parliament TV and debate. And the other thing you'd like to say about probation service is that you, at least you're not from Croatia, but you're protecting your colleagues' backs. Why? Because your colleagues never know when they're going to be targeted by their fellow HDZ colleagues yesterday and when they're going to have to serve a prison sentence. And when they're going to have to serve a prison sentence, this very work for public good will serve them as a way out that they don't have to spend time in prison but to serve the same punishment for a few hundred hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184995	Thank you. Dear Representative Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184996	I do not know what you are under the fact that you do not notice that I am every Friday in the Croatian Parliament and not only every Friday but also during the week. So I'm surprised, I don't even know what this is about, and here I'm going to try to think about it and figure out how you don't notice your colleagues, I notice you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184997	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184998	The Honorable Chairman. In my life I've been guided by one principle, which is that if I saw people fall and fall and fall, I wouldn't go shoeing them while they're at the bottom. Let's just say when Sanader fell and ended up in a mess that era somehow ended up my shoeing him, I didn't go on paintingly experiencing on a man. The same thing with Todorovic, I spoke against him until the moment he was not in all these legal problems, etc. And now I don't find it interesting to wear it when it's clear that his destiny is strong, I would dare say black and uncertain. And now there's one thing happening with Bandic who's very interesting, and that's that HDZ, which is actually much more dangerous for the state than Bandic, is not attacking himself. And why isn't he attacking himself? Because he's still strong, you're all aware of that. HDZ is a party that controls all possible levers of power in the state from courts, to the state's attorney, etc. And now what happens is, when you attack Bandic, you don't attack Bandic because you think he's deep in crime because the question is who's deeper in crime, look at HDZ and as foreigners, you don't attack them at all. But you're attacking Bandic. Why? Because you can see that he's weak, because you can see that his closest associates are turning their backs on him, turning into witnesses of the penitent, etc. And then what? In such circumstances, you're wearing him now. There's a man charged, more a man in a court of malte than at home. Now, you're wearing this guy's shoes, and I'm saying, by yesterday, you were in a political marriage to him, you were in the SDP together with Bandic, as he says along with him you were celebrating and worshiping, and now he's the worst, now he's no good. But what surprises me is not that you're attacking him, okay, correctly, attack Bandic, and why aren't you attacking the HDZ? You know why? Because the media has their backs because you know they control the judiciary and they'll never be convicted, etc. And in fact, by attacking a weaker person instead of a stronger person, or by my judgment, a person who's less in crime than HDZ, you're actually showing one character trait, which is that you're beating up the weak one, and you're protecting the bigger one. And in this way you actually show that you don't care about truth and justice in an abstract sense, but that you really only care about liquidating your competition and what's most interesting, the Head Bandic works both HDZ and SDP because you want to get rid of it and come to its place. Does HDZ want to get rid of Bandic because he's corrupt? And the probation service is a subject, but in order to get to that probation service, we must first come to a judgment. [[/Intruder Reiner: A fellow Pernar, the topic is a probation service. You may be confused about something else you're talking about, but the probation service is the subject, the report.]] In order to get to the verdict, first we need to talk about the specific details of the whole story, and I just want to point out that HDZ is not against Bandic, because in style as Bandic is corrupt and we are honest, no, they want to come to his place, the same thing is the SDP gentlemen who have worked with him for years, so he was their political child to say so, and now, while he was in love with them, and he was putting political SDPs in town companies, while Milan Bandic shared profits with them, then Milan Bandic was good, and now, what you do, he reminds me of the husband and the woman who were together in some dark jobs, so when they get divorced, now the husband attacks the ex-wife, she's like this, she's like this all the time he knew it while he was living with him. I just want to say how dishonest this charade is, how much this is really a joke and a show for the public, and I want to tell Bandić publicly now from the pay phone that he doesn't trust these fake friends from HDZ and SDP because they're watching each other cut off his head and that he's actually going to rebel against that system himself because he's done, he's done, they're going to come to his head, and they're not going to have mercy on him. In my court, it will end who Sanader and Sanader have served this system until the very end, etc. Here I call on Milan Bandic, instead of waiting for others to be witnesses against him, to appear as a witness to a penitent, and to expose all HDZs and SDPs with whom he shared profits, profits, not to say bribes and simply bury them because otherwise they will bury him. Of course, he can't tell me that he's definitely guilty until there's no judgment. Until the verdict comes, but these are all charges, so let's just kind of put it this way, that's all. My opinion that if there are so many indictments, and according to the law, some of them, by my judgment, are credible, and I'm afraid that when he entered the papers 10%, 15% or 300,000 kuna, I'm afraid these are some details that I could say so, but I know, I remember when Sanader fell, when he ended up in prison, then the HDZs said "he's the only criminal, we're all honest", it's the thesis that's now being put in the trial of Bandic. Bandića is a criminal all in HDZ and SDP are honest and these are the same people he shared jobs with, etc., so these are the people he wants to get rid of now just to get rid of it with so to say the top of the pyramid of power in Zagreb and to sit in his place but not because they are more honest than he is, it is important detail but only because they want what he is doing right now, they want to be Milan Bandic, they want to come to his place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u184999	And fellow Pernar, who didn't talk about this subject, from now on anyone who will get out of the topic will get immediate notice because these propaganda messages of this type is really enough. We do, people look at us, they know that the theme report on the work of probation service for 2018 which can be criticised, of course, etc., but talking about ten things has really gone a little too far now. So, I'm asking you nicely to stick to the subject. Here, we have replicas of the presentation of fellow Pernar who did not speak at all of course on the subject but I hope that the replicas will be related to the subject, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I see you too have an ambition to create a flow of our thoughts and spoken words...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185001	No, I have an ambition to stick to the Rules of Procedure that you don't do....
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185002	...which is not good for me in the Croatian Parliament, you showed the other day when you did not allow the debate on the proposal for an abortion law that the SDP gave, in which direction you act but this is Parliament and you must be aware of...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185003	.../Intruder Reiner: You are not discussing with me, you should talk to your colleague Pernar./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185004	... and you must tolerate it at the hearing of colleagues of Pernar and mine, and I do not know now who else, Mr. Raguža, will speak, you must be aware that the Croatian Parliament is the place of speech and not silence. You might want us to keep our mouths shut, but we won't be silent because it's impossible to remain silent after all these HDZ affairs from the last Nose to APN, to the captain who embezzled the money, we can't keep quiet about it. When it comes to probation, I have to warn you that probation...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185005	.../Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185006	...to these people must not be applied...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185007	.../Intruder Reiner: There are no colleagues of Pernar so you can't.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185008	...and please don't shut up, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185009	.../Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Maras, you've exceeded your time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185010	...please don't choke Croatian Parliamentism, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185011	My colleague Maras, I am not suffocating Croatian parliamentarianism, you are making fun of him and I am not suffocating him, however, everyone can speak here and say anything here and exactly and incorrectly and truthfully and falsely, etc. But in the context of the subject. To use it because, for some personal promotion or party promotion, it's outside the subject of the Rules of Procedure, and we brought this Rules of Procedure, all together, and then I expect to stick to it. Therefore, I am talking about respecting the rules and not creating a joke from the highest body representative in Croatia. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185012	Thank you, dear Vice President. So I wanted to warn my colleague Pernar that he was not talking about the trial, that he was out of the picture, but I also wanted to tell him what the difference between Sanader and Milan Bandic is that Milan Bandic has a passport to BiH so that he will get away very easily, I doubt he will be tried for 10 years as Sanader. And as for freedom of speech, we have our time, and you are the only one who insists on having meetings of the assembly you try to channel us all the time to think like you think, that we don't say what you don't want to hear, and I ask you to let in this time that you've spent your freedom of speech in HS at one time or another, so that once in half of that time, it's either out of the darkness or not, that's not so important, I think if we as representatives who didn't all vote for this Rules of Procedure that you brought with which you choked freedom of speech in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185013	Okay, I'm giving you a heads-up on this Rules of Procedure and this...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185014	Why do you give me a warning, for what do you give me a warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185015	Because you spoke out of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185016	Well, I mentioned a rehearsal, so what did I get off the subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185017	Uh, and you've replicated...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185018	Why are you giving me a warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185019	...except for me, not my colleague Pernar, whom I'm not here... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185020	Now you're going to take me out of the assembly here, because you're not ashamed of yourself, all the time...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185021	Uh, the next line is, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. The next replica is the respected representative of Damjan Vukdlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185022	Dear Mr. Reiner, because of these monologues of yours here for a few minutes, you have denied us all the opportunity to replicate at all, I ask you to refrain from it in the future, let us speak freely without any additional intelligence, here's an advance thank you. And as for the very exposure of Agent Pernar, I just have to say that Mr. Pernar is wrong when he says that SDP and Bandic cooperate together, namely whether Mr. Pernar knows, but Mr. Bandic holds 90% of Zagreb's SDPs on the salary, on our salary, on our money, there are employees in Holding, in city services, and therefore he would like to say that Bandic and SDP are not equal partners, but that Bandic is their boss, Bandic is the employer of SDPs, here is clean when Mr. Pernar will listen to this, just so that the future mistake doesn't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185023	Thank you, too, for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185024	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185025	The next individual debate of the esteemed counsel, Steve Cole, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185026	Talking or not saying the question is now. Your Honor, I'll try to stay in rehearsal after all, but I can't guarantee that in the heat of the Fayte I won't go astray one, so I'll draw a warning, but you remind me, I'll accept it the way the court and others do. Ha, the Prosecution Act, it's a very disputable topic, said how to control someone at all when it starts at the beginning, the first mistake was made at the beginnings of the creation of the Croatian state that we didn't already have the Law on Testing, so that at that time we could tell the government of the SDP and the Croatian Communists' Union immediately to begin the trial even before the first elections, so that they would not be able to hand over the weapons to the former JNA that are in the set, we could say the first edition, that would be one great contribution to the trial, such as one trial would result in the fact that today we would not look at the stars of the five-points in Rijeka and the HS would not look at followers and the same parties of the Communist alliances, and the same followers of those who decimated Zagreb from the Croats, and the same ones that all of our former systems, from which we were older ones, in this country, carried out in our love with our own time and negativeness. When I talk about it, I'm talking first-hand because I'm really a witness to that time as many here who were not first in the Party of Democratic Change that bought them a tie and a suit and they found themselves in HS, so many became ministers of crafts and entrepreneurship, and they never had anything to do with crafts or entrepreneurship, so many had control over other people's assets that they never knew how to earn, or to accomplish anything in any fair way. To talk about probation, not to start with a Croatian policeman who has to fly criminals, drug addicts, murderers and others in the streets, fields, forests, who has to fly those we accidentally abolized and forgive them, and they are in some kind of trial only in uncontrollable testing, so we may see the results of that non-vulnerability at some other time. So, through probation, we will control those who succeed in bringing that cop to a judge on the street, so the judge with his who knows what kind of guy, and she's unquestionable, because the judges are saints in the Republic, like holy cows, untouchable, you can't ask them anything, you can't discuss their decisions, and you can't comment exactly except in some circles that aren't visible that you might not one day end up at the judge, I have 5-6 procedures right now, I don't care, it's the same thing, every time we're talking about it, and in that way, that Croatian cop who's struggling to get that same criminal out of the same thing again, and the moment he finds himself in the trial he's not responsible for what he can do in that trial, so he's not guilty of dealing drugs through that particular institution, usually in general good work, he's gonna be able to be able to find his own way in a good time in a good time, so that he can't be able to be able to do time in a good time in the kids, so he can be able to do time in a good time in a good time in the kids, so he can be able to do time to do time in his job in his job to do time in his job to do time, to do time, so he to do time in the kids, so he can get a job to get to get a job to get a job to get a job to get a job to get a job to get a job to get a job to get a job to get a job to get a job to get a job to work to get a job to get a job to get a job. What's a rehearsal? Why assign someone so easy, i.e. No punishment for what he did? It's left to the judge every single person and his tolerance. There are judges who have zero tolerance for certain criminal acts, and we have all kinds of judges, who are reluctant to go into their thousands of cases, not to be held accountable for their actions, there are judges who are rich as Pharaohs, and they cannot possibly be found on the list of shame that their property card can be established. We've passed a bunch of laws here that we can't enforce and that won't give any results, we've annulled and the law on... and about betrayal, no betrayal, no law on the origin of property, no law on nothing, and no one is responsible for anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are also looking at these days, so I must not comment on judicial decisions but I will comment because I cannot not speak, a man may die in the meantime but I must say that he hears that there is still someone in the Croatian Assembly who thinks about him and his case. It is about Tomislav Mercep, a pre-war engineer from Vukovar who was not in his will in the Homeland War, found himself at the site of a defence organizer along with Blago Zadro Vukovar and he knows what he was up to, how he ended up and why he's in prison today, why is Tomislav Mercep in prison? Not because of those crimes he allegedly failed to sanction or control because he couldn't do it through two functions and a role in the Homeland War, but we met a lot of criminals, murderers, thieves and all sorts of freaks, those who used the Homeland War and became war profiteers and robbed you and my children in the future, these war profiteers weren't punished in any way. Killers who killed Croats and their employers and commanders who were supposed to be directly responsible for the crimes committed under their command, I will start from the rightful freed villain whom the Supreme Court of Croatia freed, it is Radenko Alavanja, commander of the headquarters of the territorial defence of Borovo Selo where 83 not Serbs were killed. That man is free. And the man he succeeded and dared to oppose on the other hand, Tomislav Mercep, is in prison for crimes, inactions because he didn't control possible other crimes. How would the probation service, I stay on the subject, handle these two cases? So this Tomislav Mercep, he needs to be given charity work in some spas, look out the window and count the birds, that the difference which the birds of the singers remained and which the birds of the village passed on your future and the future of all Croatian children to some foreign accounts. They talk about everything and everything, they come out of the subject but this topic doesn't interest them because through this topic, they see themselves. And when I talk about this, I know what I'm talking about, I was a cop who arrested, arrested and treated criminals the way they should be treated, that the sooner they confessed to criminal acts, not today, the sooner they all go into obsolescence the way they normally do. Mr. Maras wouldn't have those two, those two burns on Whitelights, so it passed if I'd questioned it, be sure of that. The probation system will have the results of the moment when the one found in that system under our control, when he returns from that annual vacation, from the trial, when he never returns to that crime he committed at the beginning, if he is allowed through the trial to continue what he did through his crime and for which he is found in the trial, and when he is not guilty, then it is a failed trial, the trial seems to be intended only for those who commit a minimum sentence and who are doing it fairly, who out of spite, from any other failure to commit it, and who repent for it, those who return, they do not repent as well as those who have not completed the killing of '45, as well as those who say that few UDBA have committed the murders, there is no trial for such forgiveness. Mr. Vice President, thank you for not getting my notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185027	I was just about to tell you. You have to get a warning, you're aware of that yourself. We have two replicas on your exhibit. ... Yeah, you picked up the line, because you picked up the line, so that's why it didn't. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, what's been hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185028	He's been injured. 229, because you, Mr. Vice President, didn't and you missed Mr. Culeu's word of warning, took away his word...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185029	.../Intruder Reiner: I said a reminder./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185030	...after he repeatedly spoke nebulose and I don't know is you proud that HDZ's representative here says that in the 1990s you should put hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens on surveillance for something that's in his head...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185031	.../Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much, thank you very much./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185032	...without any trial or punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185033	.../Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185034	So that's what we have in the Croatian Parliament today...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185035	.../Intruder Reiner: Comrade Maras, thank you very much, you've exceeded your time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185036	...someone who would control hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens and you tolerate it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185037	Comrade Maras, you've exceeded your time. I'm not gonna tolerate it anymore. I told my colleagues Culey a reminder as I had announced that I would give any warning that came out drastically of subjection, he was aware that he had gone off topic and here he is. And to you who were out of the picture, I didn't give a warning, I didn't even give my colleague Pernar, I was initially tolerated, but when I saw where it was going, it went in one completely tenth direction I stopped being more tolerated and I will strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure. Uh, as I did and in this case he strictly stuck to the Rules of Procedure and colleague Culey received this notice. Now, you're, you're looking for a replica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185038	Mr. Culey, do you know what probation means? Because it seems to me from your debate that you've replaced two concepts one is lustration the other is probation. Is that they're both on whose not, uh, but it's not enough to justify this debate of yours. So please tell me do you know what probation means? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185039	Dear Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185040	Dear President, thank you. A fellow Maras so that I wouldn't know that famous word lustration, so who doesn't know about that lustration, who hasn't heard... Please, I don't hear well, [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] a lustration one acceptable to this action, which was accepted by the entire civilised Europe, and the whole civilised Europe has made a lustration in its own countries and removed just all those who would disturb it in its progress, in its progress towards the improvement of man. [[/Intruder: What's a rehearsal?]] Because this lustration has enabled many who have committed crimes, and they have not been tested because there was probably no such trial at the time, but the page is extremely welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185041	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185042	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, colleague Culey, you often talk about these communists, commies, that's what you're talking about in the early '90s. entered the HDZ of all services as a secret UDBA and others who also entered the HDZ and made up of today's 220,000 members mentioned by President Plenkovic apparently more than half of them have increased there. Are these people or others, I'm not sure what you're talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185043	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185044	Dear colleague, I must answer this question because I am extremely glad you asked me that. It is because of all those commies who have not been lustrated, and who, of course, have not forgotten them too, who have found themselves on the wave of a new Croatia and mixed themselves with those who should have led this Croatia. It is you who, even today, is holding Croatia back in progress, but it won't be long, it won't be long before we recognize their work and work on it. And I'll tell you I'm a little late in HDZ, I only entered in 2000, but just in time to finish what our predecessors forgot, missed, that's exactly it. And in that and such Croatia there would be no one here at least in the Croatian Parliament who would kill around Europe, who would fill the caves, such as would not be in the Croatian Parliament, they would speak in a trial service from some past times.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185045	We now have the final words of the esteemed representative Željko Raguž, first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185046	At the end of this item of the Agenda Report on the work of the Ministry of Justice for 2018, it is important to reiterate and emphasise that in Croatia the probation service is organised within the framework of the Department of Prosecution and Prosecution of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia and that, based on the report on the work of the Prosecution Service and on the basis of the report on the work and condition of the penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions, we can see that the Republic is following European trends in this area and that these two criminal trials systems are something that could not be imagined today, therefore, legal order in the Republic. What is particularly important is the fact that in the context of the probation service and the realization of an alternative sanction that has been analysed here in an appropriate way today is also the revenue of 15 million kuna, which makes the probationary service profitable on the basis of the fact that 586,000 hours of work for the general good is precisely bringing that income. When compared to the revenues of the RS prison system, which, apart from the spending of 467 million kuna for 2018, has a revenue of 50 million kuna, it says that within the Ministry of Justice, there is a rational policy in the criminal trial system. In conclusion, without a probationary service today in the Republic of Croatia, it would be difficult to imagine a whole process since the first stage of the investigation, the first reaction of the state's attorney's office, the decision-making and the later reason for the execution of the verdict, which suggests that the probation service has achieved its role in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185047	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics, the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185048	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, so very briefly, I agree with my predecessor, Mr Raguž, that since 2009, the Republic of Croatia has done significant steps in the work of the probation service. Likewise, this report is good, but I, in my replica, told the secretary of state that I resented that the report could have been more extensive. Two things are important here one I have already mentioned in the replica itself, it was good that the amount of EUR 2.1 million from one important project should be mentioned in this report even though it was concluded by what we see, the contract in 2019, but since 16 January, I think it came to the Parliament this report, that it could have been mentioned. It is not a criticism, but it is a clear contribution to see that there are things that significantly improve the system but what is the same in this report may have to be clearer or better visible and this part of the legal persons and bodies of the public authorities in which convicts perform work for the general good, with their activities that include the affairs of humanitarian, environmental and municipal significance, especially this part of the municipal meaning. Namely, the table is very clear by county as many as there are new legal persons and the total number of legal persons, it is also stated where everything was done, in hospitals, institutions for mentally ill persons, in homes for older and powerless. What I'm interested in is how many units of local self-government were, in particular, the municipalities involved in these affairs, how demanding they are, in fact, not from the point of view of the probation service itself, but also here are the specific founders of the municipality or those persons responsible for working within the municipality in terms of protection at work and all of what is related to the work of such persons because we see that a large number of hours of work done and in the municipalities there is even more room for more hours of work to work where these persons would then be doing useful social work, where this actually goal of testing would be achieved, and then it would be a total benefit for society. In this sense, my colleague Raguž pointed out, that the system is a lot, not now that it is self-sustainable but it has achieved significant revenues, but I think it should be more noted in the report because to get citizens to know, that citizens know that someone is working for the common good and in this way justified or redeemed before the law for those mistakes he made, we see that there are more criminal acts, most of which seem to me to be crimes against property, so it is an opportunity for such crimes to actually be returned to the debt of society under the condition of course and we see it in the debate to mention it, a key issue in the Republic, when it comes to justice, say ok, it is not condemned but at least returned what he wrongly took or stole. Otherwise, the report should be supported, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185049	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the MOST of Independent Lists, finally on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185050	Thank you very much. My dear secretary, the secretary of state with her assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Every society so modernly from those who have committed certain crimes and are obliged to society, have a trial, means their jobs and their services, this report describes both the way of action and how much it has been for the official probational service of people, how much it has been fulfilled, how much financial income and it is good to talk about these people who have their obligations to the state because of the crimes they have committed or other misdemeanors they have committed and here they are described, they are essentially those who can contribute to society and, of course, that they should strive to do so. And, of course, it is also necessary to create a perception towards the public that these people can partially resuscitate themselves under controlled conditions so that these risk groups of people, in fact, do not affect the normal course of life or that at that stage, a similar crime is not repeated. This report describes a lot, whether it could have been more detailed, it's probably but the fact that there's a lot of that data in this report that we each have to make conclusions on how it works. Of course, when we talk about the perception that we should always talk about and about what citizens would like to hear because citizens know that those people who took and held back millions, that the two who were high-ranking officials, cleaned up potatoes for a few days, to solve their problems, means that part is very important, means that through these reports and crimes are described in what way, which are criminal acts and how this probationary period is carried out. I should especially point out once again that today when people see that corruption, perception of corruption, perception means crime, destroyed many jobs, 2/3 of people emigrate, that these reports need to be done as much as possible and stressed and detailed as possible. I will once again mention this detail is the most left in people's heads, that the man who was convicted of 10 million kunas, basically peeled potatoes for a few days. So if we send this message, then it's not good in that way until others, perhaps because of minor crimes, say they didn't do it because we need to know that there are people who are also righteous, who have but are simply proven after a few who are just but so right, after a few dozen years it's proven that they haven't done it, not perhaps in Croatia, but there have been such cases in the world that simply those who are convicted, the most severe crimes, after 40 years it's been proved that people have spent in prison or on trial jobs and in fact they're not guilty. Therefore, we should not condemn everything in this work and be fair to everyone, meaning just to everyone because today our societies are truly walking people in Vukovar who were in great Serbian aggression, who are free, who are walking, who did not have probational jobs or initiate proceedings against them, they were rapists, criminals, they are simply walking free in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. So we have this multi-layered problem about all of these jobs but it's one whole problem, not just the Justice Department, and the judiciary is highlighted as the biggest problem of the biggest problems in the Republic of Croatia and the mistrust of our citizens is exactly in the judiciary, among other things, in other bodies, but the fact is that if we don't treat all of these things, here's the thing that I'm going to get caught up with these war crimes, if criminals are walking free because if we look up to here at The Hague. We at The Hague are our generals still incarcerated in The Hague while Vojislav Seselj was released, they said he was free. He walks through Serbia and mocks all the victims he has committed, while our people who have defended from this side and are responsible for crimes cannot be pardoned for a thousand and one reason, and I do not know these reasons while here at the same time the Chešelj Chešelj Chestnik who has committed crimes is free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185051	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185052	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The applicant is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. This report shall be adopted on the work of the probation service for 2018. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 97 for, 7 abstentions and 1 against the accepted report in the text as proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185053	Let's go to the next point, and that's: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Roads, first reading, P.Z. No. 604 is proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. In accordance with Article 85 of the basic Regulation, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law when discussing this item on the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. The government has delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. It will be the respected representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185054	... persons with disabilities in road traffic are regulated by the Road and Road Safety Act and it is prescribed that persons with 80 or more percent of physical damage or persons with lower limb damages 60 or more can be marked by a vehicle which is transported. [[Specially enabled.]] The same Article of the Law also provides for a sign of accessibility to be issued on behalf of a person with disabilities. Now we come to this bill. The SDP wants to change the law in a way that the right to release from paying toll relations and to persons with disabilities who do not have their own car. All persons with disabilities who drive, for example, family members must pay tolls on highways which we consider discrimination against all those who do not have their own car and we want to make it right. If a person uses a car, regardless of whose ownership it is, so if there is a need for someone's transport, then it should be released from paying the toll. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has stated in its clear statement a number of justifications and obstacles that make it impossible to accept our proposal without any concrete step or time period during which those activities should take place. The government has also stated that this means an increase in budget funds. We hold that it does not mean any increase in the budget, and this is primarily about the control problem, so how to control it. But for God's sake there are Croatian highways to which it applies. The fact is that people with disabilities are deprived of it without respecting the counsel's recommendations for disabled persons who have been trying to change the law for a number of years in this direction and in the end and the laws of the same portfolio are not harmonised. So the Road Safety Act says one thing or another that this right belongs to a person, and the Roads Act practically gives it to a car, imagine nonsens, so the right to a car. We think that rather than the government has rejected our proposal to supplement it with the amendments, it is obvious that there is no will for anything in the election year. We agree that better control of the use of toll-free rights is needed, but this is what I mentioned earlier. No proposal on this subject came from the ruling ones. The most important thing is that we want to correct this law by correcting the discriminatory provision that I was already talking about, according to which only owners of a disabled person are exempt from paying the toll. We suggest, again, that releases from toll payments be exclusively the right of a person with disabilities regardless of whether he drives his car or drives with another person who owns a car or whether he drives in his car. In the proposal, we called for the Road Safety Act, which determines that the use of the accessibility sign is subject to the right of persons with disabilities, whether or not the owner of the vehicle. We can also see that the law's inconsistencies. As far as budget funds are concerned, we believe that enough funds are provided. We suggest the right to release toll payments for the car to be translated. Thus, the SDP continues to fight for equality and correct another injustice. And I'm sure as soon as we get to power, we'll do it. More than half a million people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia live on the threshold or below the poverty line. Such a legislative proposal stressed the creation of an equality policy in all rights and thus the right to freedom of movement, warning of over half a million people with disabilities in Croatia living on the threshold or below the poverty line. This initiative also helps to make the process of implementing the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities faster and more effective and not only remains a dead letter on paper. So these are all our reasons are basically about a very small change in practically 2 articles, but this 2 articles for a lot of people mean the possibility of moving in this country. Therefore, I would ask all MPs to have that in mind. This is not an ideological law, it has nothing to do with it, so this is a law that is addressed to Croatian citizens, if you want to see those citizens who are most vulnerable because the disabled are in some way a minority group in society, so I would ask you to really support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185055	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185056	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Vidovic, we at HSS and I personally support this bill because we believe that this injustice should be corrected against people with disabilities and there can be no excuse for providing some additional funding in the state budget. Because if we want people with disabilities, to allow them to be mobile, to integrate into society, to get jobs, then we have to let them move, to travel, not to be punished. And the answer the government said by rejecting this proposal of yours that additional funds should be provided and that would create traffic on the highways at the payhouses because it's impossible to control a person rather than control a vehicle. How many of these people, how many have they received? Because I know that people live with disabled pensions from somewhere between two and two thousand kunas. With these incomes, they cannot buy a car and must seek the help of other family members to carry them. So I ask you to answer that, that people understand that these are small funds, and they would be very helpful to disabled people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185057	Thank you. The answer to the respected Frank Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185058	Thank you. Therefore, a concrete answer to your question according to the Ombudsman’s Report on Persons with Disabilities for 2017 on 15 March 2018 was recorded in the vehicle register of persons with disabilities by 11.845 users. So this is a practical figure, an annual figure for the use of public roads and tolls for people with the highest degree of disability in 2019 are guaranteed by 28 million kuna. I think and I think it's really a miserable figure for the state budget and that whatever the increase can be, it can't be more than 2 to 3 million kunas. So, I don't think that's a good reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185059	Thank you very much. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, will speak to the respected representative, Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative of the Government, Mr. Proposer, colleague Vidovic, colleagues and colleagues, I will begin to say that the GLAS Club of Representatives, the Civil Liberal Alliance, will support this proposal to amend the law, and we will welcome what the SDP colleagues have noticed in this law, and that is to say that there is an injustice that I would dare say might be more overlooked than intention. An oversight that disability as such is not treated equally with everyone or that disability is given a privilege through the exercise of the right in fact through the means of transport used by the disabled. Which, of course, is nonsense because one good part of just these most difficult disabled people actually use services or could use third party services that could do him a transport service and in that case he has no right, if it is not his vehicle, he has no right to use the relief that the state gives. Here, you noticed this fellow Members and, of course, it is a relatively small change which, of course, brings certain, certain problems, or is required to organise this way of control above all. Of course, at the time of digitisation and control of everything through various electronic devices, I mean one such exercise, the implementation of this proposal is more than ridiculous for informers means that a certain kind of electronic passage control or billing on, toll collection. Therefore, here we will very briefly support this and we think that colleagues from the position should also welcome this one small step for us, or for disabled persons, in order to facilitate their movement and use certain services and the availability of certain services that such persons need. What is, of course, a little disappointing about these issues is how the government reacts, or the government's opinion, where, of course, there are many problems that arise from this proposal, so the government of the tone, the authority of a certain group of people, the expert commission that usually happens with us, if we don't want to solve the problem, then we start a commission and commissions that have been doing it for years, and eventually it turns out they're just wasting time, and they haven't done anything, most often. And then we avoid, of course, solving a particular problem. This is the only damage that we do to the people to whom this applies, this is really a life-saving thing, it's a sensitive, especially sensitive group of people, and I don't think we should politicize there in a way that some good, a good proposal is obstructing various excuses on a page and a half like the Government did on this occasion, and I think it's embarrassing for a government that currently presides over the EU Council in Zagreb, in the same city that is being held here and, and this session and in which we are discussing such a proposal. Otherwise, the problem, the problem, is not a problem, but the topic of the disabled is something we may not talk about in HS, as we talk too little about all sensitive groups, because in some ways the standard of democracy in society is precisely measured by, or by, the attitude of the state, by the government to these endangered groups and groups of people. Well, it always seems to me, to the disabled, that it is necessary to treat people with special sensitivity in a way that treats them equally and in a way that treats the disability of a person, not the way to obtain that disability, or place or event that caused this disability. As a state, we haven't quite defined ourselves properly, so it means the same to everyone. The other thing is if you want a certain group of people to protect or give them additional rights, then you point out and do it through some other laws, but regarding disability as such you can't do the difference between people who have damaged the spine have given it, whether it happened at the workplace or if it happened elsewhere in a walk or I don't know in a specific case in the country war because we have differences that are too big and where our authority in certain times has done absolutely unnecessary injustice in relation to those people who, for example, have become disabled in the workplace in relation to those who have achieved this right in a way that they have suffered and become disabled in the home war, that's what they were in the home war, which we should of course be treated through specific laws, but the disability as such must be treated absolutely equally, I felt that it should be said that this is the right to the disabled person, because the right of the person in which I am entitled to be able to be able to do this property. We believe that this is right and that this should be supported, the implementing acts should be adapted to this, that step, and not to do it politically in such a way as to say that it is an election year, so we will not accept the opposition proposal, in the end, one law can always be taken and, in a relatively short time, adapt it in a way to be a proposal for a position rather than an opposition if it has to be so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185061	Thank you very much, the next member of the HDZ Club will speak on behalf of the respected representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state, here we are at the beginning of the debate on how colleagues of the SDP said important, changes to the important law, and I agree with you that this is extremely important and all that I, as a person with disabilities, could first of all say about the proposal of this law, was that it was a good intention, only good intention and nothing more, unfortunately nothing more and everything else that has been proposed here is wrong or incorrect or perhaps best said in a part of it. I'm sorry to have to say this, but I have to make sure that the Croatian public is aware of the real truth and the tiniest truth to say so, in detail about this problem. If it were that simple, then you would solve it in the SDP when you were in power, that it was just a change of one article in this way as you suggested. I am sure that here is a respected colleague Vidovic who spoke on behalf of the promoter had contact with some people with disabilities who proposed to amend this article in the Roads Act, but I am sorry you know what your colleague Vidovic, who did not properly instruct you with disabilities, but unfortunately incorrectly. And then here in the Croatian Parliament we come to the position of speaking to each other in this case I tell you that you don't know anything. I don't think you know anything because you don't need to know the smallest details about any real person with disabilities, but those who have instructed should know. So, first of all, if you wanted to amend this article of the law, you had to change the definition, the basic definition of who would have the right to be free from paying toll, that's first and foremost. Because since the time you were in power, one thing has changed, and you've changed it, and your Minister Mrsic has introduced a new system of art, and we're the only ones who have come to the point where we have to improve it because you haven't done it, and we've been doing it for a little while because it's not that simple. So what you're missing here, so these numbers you're talking about aren't right, you're missing a lot of people with disabilities, all those who are skilled by the new system. You know what that means? That they don't have a solution to physical damage and they don't need to have it, but they are people with disabilities. According to the new legal system in the Republic of Croatia, people with disabilities are difficult. So they are skilled according to functional ability and those belonging to the 3rd or 4th category are certainly entitled to the exercise of this right. So like I said, the intention is excellent, but everything else isn't. Why is the intention excellent? Because I remember it very well, and that should be remembered by the D.A. when she suggested it because we held meetings together when I was a representative at this High House in the 6th session that we raised this issue. At that time, it is a consensus that such a provision as today, which we never thought was the best, that it was the best quality, but at that time it covered one of the most difficult people with disabilities regardless of where the disability was acquired because Croatian defenders or disabled Homeland War were included here, then let's say it was the happiest and best solution, but since then we have been solving this problem. The problem was to create a system that would recognize that I would say those who wanted to use this card or who wanted to abuse it. Unfortunately, there's a lot of it today. This could not be done until the new system of art was operational. And you know why? Because that's exactly how they were designed to look for people with disabilities. 500,000 more than them, well you said about 520 have them in the Republic of Croatia exactly what they all wanted and at this point they are involved in solving this problem. When I say everyone, of course I mean through my associations and roof organizations. This Croatian government has promised to solve this problem and it would already be over, it would have already been resolved if we hadn't been, as I said, dealing with the art problem that we've just now been able to say, not to lead to perfection, but to some normal situation that someone could be reported regardless of where the disability occurred and to get into a situation of what we wanted to do in one place and only once, except in the case of some diseases that are progressive, etc. So this Croatian government has done the following, let me tell you briefly that you know where we are now. So, the Agency for Commercial Activity, and its representative is also a member of the task force that we have established where, by the most part, the members of the Working Group of Persons with Disabilities, or their representatives, have developed a complete system of digitisation of the right to mobility of persons with disabilities. So we wanted to put all four rights on one card, the right to release from paying the annual fee for the use of roads, the right to sign accessibility, the island card and the right to the law we recently passed on line traffic, to have it all on one card. That's what would finally solve the problem for people with disabilities, and that's what's most actually, let's say we're a little distracted, how we're going to find a way to control such a single card because now the system recognized registration. Now the agency has settled it, we've already received a proposal to make that card look like it. On January 29th, this year, the card was presented several days ago. Within ten days, the Ministry will hold further arrangements on line transportation, so about this right that we recently voted on here, and after that, within a maximum period of 14 days, we will have a meeting to conclude whether persons with disabilities are satisfied with it, whether this is what we have discussed and what we have always wanted and immediately thereafter moves towards amending the rules. You know that we should first change as you are now and propose the Law on Roads for this right, then we should amend an article of the Road Safety Act because this card includes a sign of accessibility, and it is regulated by the Roads Safety Act and that I would finally say with one blow we kill a few flies and make a complete solution. People with disabilities, believe me, don't want their rights to be resolved or now I can say the problems when something so long is solved in a partial way. We all want to solve this for us, but in a quality way long-term to finally forget it. And when we start using that right, every next one that comes to art, so every next person with a disability who's been determined by the Office of Arts to know that he has that right and there's no problem with it anymore. What's more important, this system we're creating now will be linked to the register of persons with disabilities run by HZZ, and you must know, you've been in power and you've heard for sure that it's also been discussed that this register should have been processed in a way. And now here we're about to get here and this law that we have to amend and some other law, but it's not directly the Law on the Single Body of Art, so it's not directly about this subject right now, but in a way it is, so there are a lot of regulations that have had to change. And you were then, I have to say it again, you could have done it. I must tell you that several times in person at the time, I spoke to your Minister Mrsic, who was a resolute minister and was in charge of some of these laws, saying the negative consequences of these laws will live. I've known this problem too well, for many years now, and exactly how I predicted exactly how it happened. If we were just getting out of these problems slowly right now, if we were just coming in right now, I'd say up to the air and we could just do it right now. So what's important for this topic is I'm still going to say that by the end of the term of office of this government, I would say by the end of one session of this assembly, so by July 15th, this law will be changed, and this card that we've been waiting so long to be released into the procedure that people with disabilities can use it. Of course the HDZ Club can't support such a solution that isn't complete and as I said before, it's a good intention, but it's not what it's supposed to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185063	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Franco Vidovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185064	Dear colleague Lukacic. I'm just a man under the stars, you know, and I don't pretend to know the problem until the end, you must know it better than I do, so we're clear here. You're at the end of a series of events and you're deeply interested in this problem. I just have a sensitivity to people with disabilities. But what I'm trying to tell you is that here you've been talking about the past, mentioning the former minister and something about the future, people are living right now, right now. This time they need to come from Split, Dubrovnik, Zagreb, Sibenik here or somewhere else, anyway. So as far as the definition goes, I'm not going into art because it's not the subject of this right now, I'm not going into how someone's disability is determined because it's not the subject of this point at all, so as far as the definitions are concerned, Art. 40. The road safety law requires that persons with 80 or more percent of the physical damage or persons with lower limb damage, 60 or more, may sign the vehicle in which they are transported. The same Article of the Law stipulates that a sign of accessibility is issued on behalf of a person with disabilities. So there's a key joke, we're not looking at this or it's the subject of a fellow... There sat that other topic, here... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Roads Act, we're looking for a alignment between the Road Safety Act and the Roads Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, you don't have to agree with that, it's your right, your party's right in the end, but you'll end up doing the same, but that's where you have to agree with me because there are papers, that this has been going on for many years. And that's where you'll agree with me. That these people really need to live every day, go to rehab every day, go to the review, etc. So, I don't think this is a co-op, and even less, believe me, it's some kind of "go to me, come to me," I was talking to people with disabilities, and I talked to the D.A. with a disabled person, so it didn't quite work out like that, you know? Five will repeat, according to the Ombudsman’s report for disabled persons, by 15 March 2018, in the Register of Vehicle Persons with Disabilities, 11 845 users were registered. I'm telling you again, I'm not getting into how people got that. Also, from 1 January to 31 December 2017, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has received new 4458 requests, has positively resolved 4250 requests for the right of persons with disabilities to be released from the payment of the fee of the tralal for annual tolls, etc. So the only thing we're looking for in this law is that right from car to car, according to the Road Safety Act, is to switch to people like you who are people with disabilities. So I'm saying, I don't pretend to even know that I know everything in this world because I don't know, but on the other hand, don't deny me sensitivity, just this, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185065	We have a replica of the respected representative Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185066	Dear fellow Vidovic, I listened very well and understood very well and I read the proposal to amend the law very well. I know exactly what you're looking for. And I don't think you know anything, and I know exactly what you're trying to achieve, and that's why I said that it's noble intention and I'm also saying, and I think that this provision is discriminatory, but you can't ask for compliance with some law like what you said about traffic safety on the roads until that law is in conformity and it's not and it won't be until his next amendment on this definition because it couldn't be because of artificiality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185067	The reply of the respected representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185068	Well, I think, colleagues, since we understand each other very well, but I'm going to distract again, so the government and the government have passed, this government has been in office for more than three years. Look at us. You're changing the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185069	The next Club of Representatives will be the Living Wall and We Change Croatia and time will be shared by the respected Vucelic and Lovrinović. First of all, the Honorable Representative Vucelic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185070	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens. So the SDP has submitted this amendment of the law to the parliamentary procedure, but I am sincerely uncomfortable at all today to hold a statement on this subject. Namely, the assembly room is empty, there's no one in it. There are no SDPs, so the proposer of this amendment to the law, they're not in the assembly. The assembly room is empty, an empty assembly room. There's eight people in the assembly. I'd ask the vice president to calm down those MPs, and if they don't interfere with my exposure, they have the right to speak, let them report. The assembly is empty, it can be shown who is sitting in it, there is no one. Dear citizens, I will continue this exposure to you because there is no one here to tell him. We from the Living Wall will definitely support this bill from the SDP and we will support that people with disabilities be freed from that toll payment just know what's weird to me? How is it that the SDP wants anyone, that anything is going on our highways, Croatian highways and that transport is free of charge? If it was a SDP team, our highways wouldn't have been ours for a long time. They wouldn't be our next 50 years in the concession. And vulture funds and entrepreneurs who would take those highways in a concession, do you think their lobby would even allow anyone to drive for free or perhaps even at reasonable prices? Do you know who the secretary of maritime, transport and infrastructure was about seven years ago? It was your current SDP representative, Siniša Hajdaš Doncic, and he worked hard to give for our property's peanuts, our highways. He wanted to give our highways in a concession then. You know what he said then? He said if we don't rent highways and reduce public debt, he'll take away our right to withdraw money from EU funds. Be careful what he was scaring us with, be careful what the SDP was scaring us with. They're neither sold nor in concession. And yet nothing happened, Croatia still stands, the truth on very flimsy, corrupt legs but stands. And the SDP runs the same policy as HDZ, there's no difference between them. People have to start looking beyond some ideological issues, they have to start looking at people who are thieves, who are honest. They must watch who works for Croatian interests and who works for foreign interests or their own interests. It's all people, for sale in Croatia. Especially politicians and you can get politicians in a concession, there's no difference. Croatian highways have huge potential, they can be profitable, otherwise there would be no interest in taking a concession and HDZ Minister Oleg Butkovic still does not want to introduce vignettes, at least for foreigners. Our highways are empty except during the summer months, and then they are paid by Croats who don't care about the sea anyway, so when they decide to break a bank of pigs or raise loans, then the whole vacation pays more than that they went to Cuba. Then they tell each other to go to hell, and I'll pay for it on the freeway, anyway, and I'll pay for this vacation 12 times the next war. Good thing I'm telling you guys this because the MPs here don't understand what it's like to go to sea on loan, I hope you all understand. And do you know that the Living Wall last year sent dozens of people, i.e. last year, dozens of people on a trip to the sea? Our people live terribly, highways are too expensive and the average highway is almost twice as expensive as driving an old road, even pays people that watch, two more old roads because they save 200 kuna. You know what would be fair? To ensure people with disabilities with decent living conditions, with an honest salary, it would be fair for all citizens to have living conditions where they can and live from their work, then everyone could pay for Croatian highways even if they were probably Croatian highways for free. And they'd be paid out of the state budget and out of the vignettes of strangers. Croatia has today become a country of sad and poor people. Here's 12 and 15, people have already gone home to this assembly, to get back on the subject, do you know that we pay Croatian highways for every liter of fuel we buy, which we shelter in the tank? I'll read you an explanation of why we pay highways both through toll and through fuel, so you can figure out whether SDP and HDZ consider us idiots. This way, the freeway user pays for using certain infrastructures and facilities. This same user pays and fuel tax he used during a highway trip with toll charges. However, this cannot be seen as a double taxation of users because the fuel tax applies to all other social products. Besides double-painting tunnels, you double-paint and all the drivers. We gave a billion kuna this year to increase Defence Minister Plenkovic Krstičević and more than enough for all Croatian citizens, physically even legal persons to have a free way and a safe way. Our companies are uncompetitive because of expensive roads and we can hit strangers in the pocket. Now all countries have a higher standard in Europe than we do, of course, of Serbia, BiH, Moldova, Albania, even if they will all tell you that we have the most expensive highways in Europe. Mijat Stanic, who I hope you all know, you've all heard of him, he's the president of the Independent Road Union, he openly says that billions have been stolen from the HAC, as money is drawn from the HAC. HAC has more directors than workers, why isn't it reconstructed, modernised, automated? Why can't a free ride for Croats be allowed, an introduction of vignettes for foreigners? But who will hire an entire army of relatives, friends and family party colleagues? Who's going to steal billions from this state-owned company? Croatia can only change people who can resist clientelism, which is more important to have good roads and not to earn their relatives, which is more important to have a modern waste management system rather than to earn a party friend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185071	The Honorable representative Lovrinović will continue, I hope in the topic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185072	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about a proposal to amend the Law on Roads proposed by the Social Democratic Party, the SDP and I will immediately say at the beginning that the Party We Change Croatia, since it means, to people with disabilities, means to one vulnerable group, we will support this bill because it really goes hand in hand to our people, or to all those with disabilities. However, in order not to say this very clearly, I am sorry that the SDP did not propose a set of proposals to reduce significantly to all other drivers, however, means tolls when we drive through the Republic of Croatia and which is the problem. We also remember that these highways were expensive, so they were paid as much as they were paid, no one, dear God only knows what a real price is, but I'll say that, so we change Croatia, let's say, beyond what someone usually sees, which is the next situation that the system of Croatian roads and highways is too long, this company is a typical example of public enterprises, state-owned companies where the government and political managers work, where no one takes care of costs, where total debt has been reduced in a miserable way, and if this company is never going to be able to pay the debts through, and we will each year fill that bag with no bottoms, we taxpayers, which by paying for the length of registration for the toll, which by paying 20 lips for each liter of fuel, which means the increase of taxes and taxes that have to fill the state budget, it's true of Croatian roads and highways. So we from Change Croatia offer solutions to, besides this, these intentions that are good, means for disabled people that we support, to reduce significant tolls for all other citizens and, as has just been said, so a few years ago, you have to introduce electronic vignettes, but why, by some information that I've been reading turns over 400 million kunas a year, where there's cash there is everything, but you know what I'm talking about, someone has to count it, and who knows how far it gets, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to see, it's that capillary clientism, corruption that's rooted in the Republic, and we can't make any economic policy, it can be the perfect proposal to solve anything, but until we get rid of these people who have run the Republic and now run the Republic, we'll never set anything right. But dear citizens, I always want to spread optimism, but not on something unreal, so it's very simple for me, if a man is an expert in an area, in this case when it comes to the financial position of the HAC and Croatian roads, we clearly know that these excessive debts must be refinanced at the lowest interest rates. And you know what today's administration did? It has been refinanced in a way that during the term of office of this government the payments of total debts are minimal, but the next power when it comes, means the government's helm, people will be waiting for these years of incredibly great anuity, you see what political and political games are all over our backs. After all, electronic vignettes must be introduced urgently to drive cheaply on our roads and highways as a normal world. Furthermore, here is a proposal from the Party Change Croatia, you see during the SDP a study was paid on how to put highways in the concession, there was nothing of it, but 50 million kuna was paid, you pay attention to 50 million kuna. For 50 million kuna, they're 2 years old. All disabled people could drive, so no one should pay for anything now, but what's the integral solution? The state from foreign reserve can pay half of the total debt or the entire debt of the Croatian highways, the whole and then continue, means that the HAC will take and charge it, but at an interest rate of 0.2%, and not 2, 3.5%, and when they refinance with 2-3 say the historical lowest interest rates, you see that we are patient, we can never get on the green branch, so these are strategic solutions for the transformation of the Republic, these concrete companies, but you know about it should sit down and work on the lowest interest rates, and this existing government and institutions that are filled with political managers and that are often told by the arrests, they don't know it and they won't because, when you arrange the system then for such people, there are no places for the nature of things and dear citizens I won't continue, there't be one ride from Zagreb-Zadar, again in Zagreb than to buy vig for Austria for more days, in Slovenia, we have been able to have the right of the right to have access to the right to the right to the right of the right to the right of the right of the right of the money, because we have the right of the right of the right of the money, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the money, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185073	Thank you very much, colleague Vucelic has raised his hand. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185074	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Living Wall Club and to change Croatia, the reason why we are looking for a break is that we can talk to each other about information, and directly related to Croatia's roads and Croatian highways and money embezzlements from the European Funds and from the state budget spent on the Zagreb Mayor Bandic on the Zagreb Rotor to arrange private parcels, nivelling and deforestation, for this reason we must coordinate, we must, we must, yesterday, hand over to the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest to apply against Milan Bandic, we need to agree further on applications, criminal applications to DORH and OLAF. I'd like to ask you to take a 10-minute break, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185075	Of course we'll approve a 10 minute break to get this one in line with your views on this and the possibility that people with disabilities can ride a rotor, and then we'll see each other at 12 o'clock and 36 minutes. [[MEETING IN 12.27 HOURS]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.37 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues, here is our break, so now on behalf of HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives and New Politics, the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185077	Thank you, Vice-President HS, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, our club will support this legislative proposal, as the promoter has also stated, is targeted as the most sensitive groups of our society who, apart from their health problems, are also at great risk of poverty and therefore this legislative proposal, as counterpart Lukacic said on behalf of the HDZ Club, has good intentions and we do not see any reason not to support it. A colleague Vidovic explained the fundamental, fundamental nature of this law and in this sense that the right to be released from paying toll is not connected to the car but to whoever is sitting in that car, therefore, the person with the disability because in order to achieve this right person with the disability must be one of, of, of the points mentioned for, to exercise the right except traffic permit, bring and proof of ownership of the vehicle and there is actually a disputed whole story. - Mrs. Crescent. Lukacic expanded the whole story with the problem not only of this but also of the whole process, all the legal regulations that are related to the acquisition of rights, to which persons should be subject, so this debate got one broad dimension, which is certainly good, and colleagues from the government warned of another segment, which is control, control of the whole, control of the use of that right. Now I'm going to try only technically to highlight this aspect of the story, and this is primarily known to the public, the secretary of state is here, that, I think, the Spanish consulting company has been assessing the introduction of new toll collection technologies and that two models are actually envisaged, one system, one model is the system of recognition registration and another model is the device in the car that we have and now through so-called. ENC device for electronic toll collection. It is also known that about 40% of the toll collection is done through this device, electronic toll collection. Vinets are as a collection model in the Republic of Croatia as a possibility, the government has rejected such a possibility or group that has worked on it and we have remained on this model, therefore closed system and based on the miles it is not bad because the system is actually where the number of miles traveled is charged fair collection system and is planned, I think by the year 2023 to introduce this new system that would allow, the system is worth 570 million kuna and it is projected that, by introducing that system and the domestic economy, it could make significant revenues. So, as we can see, these new systems are once again connected to the vehicle, so they recognize either the vehicle registration or, or they recognize this device inside the vehicle. If this problem were solved with vignettes it would be easier to solve, then the person with the disability of the vinjet, in fact someone else would pay for that vignette instead, say nothing is free, but someone, that right would be realized so that someone else would pay. However, how to achieve in this case toll to ensure that this right is not misused, so that the person with the disability that is in the vehicle, but logically this is what, that the SDP colleagues suggest that it be a right to the person and regardless of who is driving it, in this case by existing law if the person wants to use the right then should donate a vehicle to his family member so that he can, that he can drive free of charge on Croatian roads. How to do this, it is a task at the end of the ministry and, and Croatian highways, how to control that a person who has the right to use it, one of the best ways is of course the system again, or this existing smart card, but in such a way as to be, to be easily readable to electronic devices, so that the person with whom the smart card is to recognize that it is in the car and that it is automatically registered as the passing of a person with disabilities who has the right to be free of payment of the toll because we cannot forget that the most important thing in this law is the reason why we need to pay attention to this is that, especially in the summer months, we are a tourist country of the vehicle that has built into the system, which therefore the electronic charging device is relatively fast through the collection system, but the people who do not often have to get into the crowds, and the person with disabilities who are able to have access to the vehicle, especially to have access to the vehicle, which they are able to get into the right to the right of the person who, who, who, who has access to the person who is the person who is the person who, who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is in whom the person who is in whom they who is in whom they in whom they are in whom they in whom they are in whom they in whom they, who they, who is in whom they are in whom they, who, who are in whom they, who are in whom they are in whom they, who they are in whom they are in whom they are in whom they are in whom they are able to be able to be able to be able to be, who, who, who, who they, who, who they, who they are the right, who they are the right, who they are the right, who they are able to be, who they are the right, who are the right, who they are the right, who, who, who they are the right to be, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who are the right to be, who they are the right, who they are the right, who they are the right to be, who they are the right, who they, who they are the right, who are the right, who they, who they are the right, who they are The legal proposal is logical, and the prerequisite that this proposal is implemented in our system should be rushed with them as soon as possible because people with disabilities cannot wait for the delay that is mentioned here is, for years, the effort is taking place, but we need to hurry to make this happen as soon as possible because it is in the interest to say our most vulnerable groups. Our club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185078	Thank you very much, the next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185079	Thank you very much, here are fellow SPD colleagues who have proposed one law to get rid of people with disabilities 80% and higher and lower extremities 60% and more to do otherwise. Now they are vehicles, and they would make use of highways, and their proposal provides a solution for people to essentially be carriers, but there are also obvious contradictions in these two laws, the Law on Roads and the Road Safety Act, which should be dealt with by the legislator. Of course, any debate on persons who have this right, on the use of highways, free use, needs to be harmonised and ensured that people use it, although here we see that today in the assembly, I heard just before a fellow from the Living Wall that he warned that there are no parliamentary representatives, that I am often here, from Sinja's dream, I am sorry that at this moment he is not a colleague from the Living Wall here, so that when he called it out, I think that this topic is too serious and that the proposal of the SPD is essentially going into the resolution and harmonisation of all laws to be unique, and that on one hand, to go in contradiction, I think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is. The resolution ministry should be dedicated to that. Otherwise, when it comes to the use of highways, I believe that this proposal is affirmative in the sense that there is a lasting and best solution and the best implementation of that solution that will provide for persons, users with disabilities who have the right to, this right to use highways to ensure in the best way and the most competent way, and to bring the legislation in line with either the Transport Safety Act or the Roads Act, that all legal and sublegal acts are harmonised. When we talk about highways, since I am a man who comes from Dalmatia, I often travel on highways, I believe that the Croatian highways are too expensive for Croatian citizens, so that alternative routes are often used that do not have as much safety as highways and therefore come at critical points of the example, when we come from the direction of Dalmatia in a state bath... from Sinj, much more critical points, critical points in the area of D1 state road, D1 and other state roads of County than highways. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that it should be started in this sense that by reducing for Croatian citizens this highway would essentially increase road safety, the tribale should think of it along with the MUP, with the Croatian roads, and I do not believe that it would be a fall in financial and budget terms because more would be used by highways and people would be safer to drive if this road was made for citizens, of course that this triba would be calculated, but if 50% or 70% cheaper highways would certainly be used more than alternative, alternative routes where traffic is being choked, where critical points are dangerous and crashes occur, there is a difference in safety on these roads than on the highway which is quite understandable. In this direction, I would once again suggest that we go and discuss it, it is in part of the Ministry of Transport, but when we have the highway and the use of the highway it would tribal the essence of all citizens available, it is a vein of the house, mainly when we talk about, about shares and according to Slavonia, but also this part of the A1 state road in tourism that has really given meaning, we have a good highway, but it is obviously expensive maintenance i.e. The expenditures, and we increase revenues by high prices, I think the tribala ić would drink upside down, much cheaper highways, more highway users and, and the revenues might even be even bigger, if people go on these roads that are state and county roads, when the accident happens, they're crowded and people talk a lot about it, mainly from these remote parts, and even businessmen who have certain jobs say that the highway eventually comes too expensive and they use alternative routes and threaten traffic safety. Therefore, here is the subject which, which has been opened by colleagues from the SDP to this legal amendment, I think that the trial would mean this first part that I said, ensure that the persons envisaged, the persons with disabilities provided by the law to ensure the maximum application and the best way, I think that it is good that they have and the right person, of course if it is possible to comply with the law and if it is most applicable in, I cannot now come to the conclusion that it is essentially in reality, if it is applicable I do not see any reason to, or if it is more reasonable now, simply the triba to see it all together, but highways are a Croatian important project which we can return to, here is a colleague mentioned, here says colleague Vucelic that he went to lunch and that he came, he mentioned the problem of highways, that the truth is highways were built as centuries ago. A fifth, five-year-old, 50-year-old dream or a 100-year-old dream where a combination of the north and, both south and that highway is one of the most significant, significant projects. However, we have problems that in rural areas that this government promises, many people do not have access to simple roads, I can speak for my Zagora, it is an access road, say Imotski, Zagvozd or who are the vessels of the housewives for survival of those people in the area, I think that when we mention this and that we can mention everything that the Governments promised, every 4 years, here you secretaries have long, you've been in the county, I think more promises are made to start those roads that would essentially sting the housewife, here's the Krizice-Kukuzovac road, it's the housewife, 2016. I could have been able to run a study of performance, make and come and care, it cared though it was promised, then the mayor said that it would be when they were choosing for the county, but I think already if we gave so much money, if we invested so much money, that areas such as the Dalmatian Zagora, Skradin and this part were not the best, even Skradin part, but not the best, the Zadar part was well solved, and the Cetinska, relatively well, Lika, meaning this vein of the house passes rather than that development is huge, we have this empty area, in fact the tribay means the fast road, the combination of the Cetin region of 50,000 people, the 50 000 people living, more than in Ličko-Senj County, the larger area than the Međimurska County, but just still, the less and less people in this area, the connection to the highway of those areas, the area, the area of Split area, the area where they wanted to be located to the area, so much more than the local people, so much as they wanted to be. We can talk about it, but now it's in space, and simply the areas, I would ask the secretary if I could do this, is this highway serving and allowing these people we're trying to make possible, I don't have any problem having to discuss it and support it because the topic is open in the best way to bring the law, but whether this highway that we've invested in, which we've been dreaming about, gives so much development in the back of our coast, whether everything has gone to sleep and what's promised, and every time the foundation stone opens up, the lambs are being placed, the lambs are moving away, and just so much, so much is actually more evil done to people is their hope going out, now and when the project comes seriously, I was prime minister, I've even laid the stone foundations without insurance, without big festivals, the promise to name them and the lip I've made them on the highway. The fast road that would have included that part on that highway, so we've isolated through the highway and the end of the food is hard to come, the existing infrastructure is slowing down, the example of Dicma, the example of Zagvozd, the example of Drnis, the example of Knin, we've got the best highway that we're boasting, and eventually people are moving into the back of those areas, instead of being economic growth, to go and to make those veins of the house, so whoever it is, I'll propose to him for a living monument, but a lot more I mean promises, so many lies, I mean made the largest infrastructure, the centuries-old dream of the Croatian people, the union of the north and the south, when the roads were made all evicted out in the back, in Dalmatia Zagora, Skradin, Ravni Kotar, Lici, all of Lici, empty, here when you go on the highway you can no longer see the man, and where very little, very little, very little, very little, very little, very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because no access roads were created, i.e. fast roads that would ensure that this neighborhood develops. I've talked 100 times about my Sinj and Cetin end, 1000 times about Ravča-Drvenik bridge, 1000 times a dream, and it's been opened 20 times, here's my colleague Branko Bačić at the time was a minister or something, he opened it with Bebić, the President of the Assembly, that he will be finished Ravča-Drvenik who will help and the islands, so we have the highway now, but that highway would have to serve in development, mainly the background, the Dalmatian Zagora, Like, Ravča Kotar, Skradin, meaning these, however the absolute results and indicators say that it's not good and listen to people, today it's quality and much cheaper to live in Sinj, and that there would be 10 minutes faster roads to Split, and the Split swimming pool is overcrowded with people, and now these people are leaving outside of our areas, and it's one of the very important infrastructures, so the roads would be fast, the roads, the roads that you know the roads, the roads, the roads, the roads, the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of great, the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads, the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads, the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads of the roads of the Secondly, if you don't do it, so these ends will be extinct it's visible, as soon as possible, you can't wait for it, you promised 100 times, but you've done the baggers, the stone foundations are laid, you don't need insurance, you don't need lambs, you don't need pre-election promises that will follow the elections now, it's very important, so make sure that these roads, that this highway as a key project of the Republic, one of the biggest projects of the Republic, that there is development of the Republic, not only when the tourist season is that tourists can come as soon as possible, which is very important because we'll be a more positive destination but it's important to survive people in the background. And secondly, as far as the proposal is concerned, it's about highways, the SDP proposal, I'd say that there's a good analysis of it, obviously there's a non-compliance of the law that's just one and the Roads Act, the second is the Road Safety Act, the second is speaking, the second one means that the affirmative bill is in what way should be considered, look at this problem and that will offer finally the relevant ones to solve this problem and the third, it's very important to pay the cheap highways for Croatian citizens, because they'll use less alternative routes that are much more difficult for traffic safety and you won't lose anything financially, absolutely nothing, because many more people, these entrepreneurs who deal, they're very expensive to pay for this, what, I don't know, the helicopters, this, what, they're going in the alternative direction, people are going to get to Zagreb, so you're going to take the alternative routes, and you're going to take the alternative routes, so you're going to take an alternative route, you're going to the next route, and you're going to the city. You won't be in financial losses, believe me, everyone will use the highway because it's easier for them to come, it's safer than for these roads that are okay, right, but simply people use them, jeopardizing the safety of themselves and those of all traffic users because I know that when D1 passes through my Sinj, how many people go through that area towards Knin State Road, surely 90% of these people would go towards Zagreb and Šibenik and Zadar on the highway that, say 20% of the existing price and nothing would be lost because it would be, and then it would be for all the citizens of the highway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185080	Thank you. The next individual will be a respected representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185081	Honorable MPs and MPs. The proposal for disabled people to drive on a free highway is a nice proposal, but this is only about the most difficult categories of people with disabilities until, for example, cancer patients are not listed, so they will still have to pay toll even though they are actually going due to the need for treatment. But what really bothers me the most is not the fact that the proposal does not include cancer patients, but that the SDP proposes this here even though it was alone, while it was in power to pass such a law. So SDP, while in power, could have put changes to the Road Law in the procedure a million times, so that it frees people with disabilities or severe toll payers, but now they didn't do it, and now they say, half a year before the election they suddenly remember all these categories of people. Very thoughtful of them, they would say to the cynics. So the goal is just to point out their hypocrisy or false care for the disabled. If they wanted all these changes to the laws that the SDP gentlemen handed over, they could have handed them over when they were in power, they could have changed them, why didn't they? They are now suddenly the ones for the legalisation of hemp while they were in power, they did not legalise it, neither Racan nor Milanovic but now they are. Oh, yeah? Now all of a sudden they're experiencing enlightenment, it's especially visible when they're giving the amendments to the budget, suddenly they're full of smart ideas. They're full of smart ideas, they want to solve things they haven't dealt with in decades, and when it was an opportunity, they didn't solve it. What were they waiting for? And then, of course, they show us our concerns like this. Here you can even then with the partner of the HNS then, I believe that they would even support you if you suggested it then, I believe that they would say the same thing, anything can, anything can. While the seats and positions are in HEP, while the people are ours all over these companies, anything can. But they're not. I want to tell the disabled to open their eyes. Now somebody's going to say again what if a man is blind, let's say the blind are now free from paying toll on this proposal, well, I don't mean literally to open their eyes but to realize that this is really a farce, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185082	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, they will finally speak to the respected representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185083	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here at the end of this debate, I want to say a few more sentences. I see I will soon have to share all MPs once again even though everyone has already received it, but once again the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in order to teach some who do not yet know it, terminology. I ask you nicely that at least we in this House show the minimum knowledge of people with disabilities, which is that they are not disabled especially fellow Pernar, not disabled or severe patients. They can be, but they're not necessarily, and most often they're not. Especially when they're young. Not all severe patients have the right to obtain toll exemption, etc., etc. Not to mention now that I'm sorry that some colleagues have used this debate today for some other things, and that at least they talked about people with disabilities, but anyway, that's, after all, it won't be hard for me, it's my mission here to teach my colleagues both from the left and right, and also from the middle, how we should talk about us people with disabilities, not just to say something. Many of you will support this bill and I don't want to say no now, but I just want to say read a little bit and think about what I said that he is not complete, when I said that the definition isn't complete then it means that there aren't all persons with disabilities here, and now we're making another mistake, some lady, and we're not giving others, it's not possible until we're happy to do it, and until it's almost complete and complete proposal and what I can say for the end here, thank and the Ministry, thank and the Government and I can say without any problem and personally to the prime minister who's first and I started to solve this issue when we've talked about it, when I said it was a problem, right now that will be solved, we needed time, in my speech on behalf of the club sooner and said why, but it's important that we'll solve it in the best possible way and that they will be covered all the persons with disabilities that they need to be free of pay. I'm sure we'll have a chance to vote on this law together that we're all here today, and that's really going to be one whole solution, so you'll see how great it's going to look. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185084	Thank you, now, on behalf of the promoter, the time will be shared by the respected representative Sabina Glasovac as the first, and afterwards by the respected representative Franco Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185085	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the honourable representative of the Resolute Ministry, I once again appeal to MPs and MPs to support this proposal, the bill. As we have already seen in, and heard in club presentations, most of the clubs that have today declared themselves on the law support our initiative and this bill other than the HDZ Club which sends us a message that we need to wait, so we don't have time for, for, to wait, we may have missed to correct some of the injustices that we may not even have been aware of, but when we are approached by individual groups of citizens and when they ask you to represent them and do something like the case here then you have to do it, and it's all in our proposal, the bill. The fact is that at this point, people with disabilities as they actually recognize it, recognizes and the Law on traffic safety on, on roads, defines that not all persons with disabilities are equal, so one part of them is discriminated against, is discriminated because unfortunately they did not want such fate, they did not choose to be disabled, they are very often in difficult health conditions, they are not able to drive themselves, and they have to go to the reviews from Zagreb to here and now a gentleman wrote from Dubrovnik to Zagreb, has no car, has, or has a very old car, which is in bad condition, simply does not feel safe to go with his car from Dubrovnik to Zagreb and he has to pay the costs, the costs of his transportation, he is not freed, he has tolls just because he is driven by some family member, a friend, and in fact has a great problem, he has a life situation, he has the status of persons with disabilities 80% or more. If we already see and if we are warned that some laws are discriminatory to us, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that this discrimination corrects now and immediately, does not allow any day, no month, no year for this discrimination to deepen, no waiting will be taken into account. But unfortunately this is not surprising because this government of the Republic of Croatia is prone to various kinds of discrimination, here and today we have seen, the Constitutional Court had to say the last word that you are discriminating citizens, not only outside the law, that you do not respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, but you do not respect neither, nor the Constitution, and it is not right and it is not nice. Unfortunately, there are many citizens in the Republic of Croatia who have been discriminated against in various ways, but it is dangerous, dangerous when discrimination is done by the government. In this case, this is not a matter of luck, of your intra-party elections or of the fact that you should be resented, perhaps one part of an internal opposition, or that you should blame yourself before parliamentary elections on one part of your electoral body as you do when you do not give an opinion on one of our proposals, the proposal of the Law on Medical Intervention, the termination of pregnancy, but you are aware in some situations that you are going into step for discrimination, even that discrimination unfortunately promotes, you are not doing anything but people have to address and seek their rights in the European Court of Human Rights, where you are not only ashamed as a state but very often and we pay high penalties for violating human rights and discriminating people, but you do not pay out of your own pocket which you discriminate on various grounds and do not want to take steps in anti-discrimination, in some of your own internal interests, but you do not have any of your own, and you do not have to change your opinion, or your own. Ljubice Lukačić is fully understood and committed to protecting the rights of persons with disabilities and promoting the rights of persons with disabilities, you have more time, we will convince your colleagues and colleagues to vote that, this law does not need anything to harm the whole adoption process, the adoption of the law, but that you will have to do much to help the people who are disciplined in this way, the disability cannot and must not be attached to the vehicle, so even the rights arising from this, if the established disability we are talking about in this, this case, means 80% or 60% of the lower body extremities, means all persons by this category must have equal rights and should not be discriminated against, this does not mean that the right of access to the money to pay for the money that these rights now respect, which have a personal car, but it means that the extension of the rights to those who are not, the right of those who are wrongly, the law is necessary to understand the law of the law of the law, and the law of the law that the law that the law is not yet necessary, that the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law is not yet the law, the law of the law, the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185086	Now, the esteemed representative Vidovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185087	I thank the Vice President, so I listened carefully to my colleagues today who spoke, there were all these things, some spoke too loudly, some spoke on the subject, some past the topic, but well, in the end it all comes down to only one thing, and that is in the government's reply, which is why the bill stands short and clear, further it would be necessary to develop a new model of the protocol of walking through people with disabilities through the payment station manager of highways that would only be related to the person who is exercising the right to release from paying the toll in relation to the currently valid model that includes the control of the person and the registered person of the car who owns it. So, you get it all in the answer, and it's a key problem, so it's not, it's not a problem because we don't really get into it, like my colleague Lukacic said, we really don't get into who's right, and who's not going to have a right, but it's not a banal thing, but which means life to people, but it does mean life to us, but to people, here I've got a couple of messages to people now while I'm sitting here from various parts of the Republic that claim that we're on a good path as far as this is concerned, so it's just about that, it's focus and the essence of the subject, that's not a disabled person, unfortunately, but the person is a disabled person who is the right bearer, can't be anyone who's the right bearer of any kind, only a person who can be the right. So that's what we're asking him to comply with what's written in the Traffic Safety Act on, on roads, I mean in art. In 40. to comply with that, 80 and more percent, 60 percent and more of the lower, if the lower extremities are damaged and that, it says for the accessibility sign, the basis of the accessibility sign is used and the rest. So, we're just asking that, to be clear, loudly aligned with each other, whether it pulls behind us, I don't think that no, will pull any additional nor rights, nor will it pull any extra mass of people with disabilities now, but it won't because, look, disability is gaining, I guess through skill they prove them, I don't get it, I don't think it's proven by art, we're not getting into this segment, we're talking about people who have a certain right here, but they don't own a car, so they already have a handicap that they don't have a car, and now we're having additional handicaps by saying the car, the car owner, so I'd really ask you, I'm saying this again isn't, I know that these guys here have talked to the SDP and the former governments, the car monetization, etc., this isn't an ideological question, this is no ideological question, so this is no ideological question, so it doesn't really, so it doesn't have any connection to red, blue, it't matter that we't matter that we't have to make it't matter that we't matter that we't it't it't it't matter that we't matter that we't we't we't we't we't we't we't matter to be too much to make to make the right to say that we't we't we't we't we't we't we't we't have to make it't have to make it't we't we't we't have to make it't we't we't have to make the right to say the right, but the right, but the right, but the right that we't have to see that we't have to make the right that we's the right that we's the right. Could be two, three, five million kunas, what does that mean for the state budget? Nothing. Nothing at all. So here we are at the end, regardless of each other's differences, we are a democratic Parliament, and it's good that, without looking at the fact that we may have seen this in our government three or four years ago, but it's never too late to correct a mistake. We're not accusing anyone, so it's a mistake, we're not accusing the current HDZ government or what's bothering me, it's that we're hiding behind some set-up of commissions for this and for what, so we don't make a concrete decision and then we're going to go wide but we're not going to look at what's really a problem, we're going to go wide and get there, of course we're not going anywhere because that's how it is whenever you go too wide, you don't come anywhere. So, I appeal to you, I appeal to your conscience as an agent to decide with your mind what you will do, reason and conscience. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185088	Thank you. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Lukacic, please. ... colleague of Glasovac [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185089	Thank you very much. Comrade Voter, it would be best if you hadn't said this much pathetic words at all. Discrimination didn't come out of your mouth. I ask you why you discriminated against these people just as much? You said in this bill that funds are not a problem, that they do not need to be provided further, and you did the same thing, the same discrimination. There's a reason why you could solve this for me but maybe there's no reason why you couldn't, you had a cleaner field than the ones you prepared for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185090	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185091	I answered the question if you listened carefully in the final word on behalf of the promoter why it wasn't us but still the question remains why you won't do it now. But unfortunately, it doesn't surprise me, ma'am. Lukačić, you know that here very often we also speak against discrimination against people with disabilities, when your Minister Divjak wanted to throw students out overnight with disabilities on the road, post-doctors at post-graduate studies, that I was screaming at this speaker in some way against it, and in the end, your minister gave up, so if discrimination is seen, if they warn you, things should be corrected. I answered why we didn't but you still didn't answer why you now that we're aware of discrimination, why you won't do it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185092	The next replica is the respected representative of Zhagar, also on fellow Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185093	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues of the Voice, let's strip things. So people with disabilities are users of rights and this right is transferred to means of transport, the car is a device, a means, a machine that must be used by a person with disabilities as any other citizen to drive on the highway but the right is exclusively on the person, and now it would be the right regardless of what use they should afford, in which I see the essence, and therefore I support this law, that the right is exclusively connected to a known person, so I realized it and so it has to be. And if this person is going to drive and even, let's take it in a sense now, I would even extend the rights to vans, meaning even to combined vehicles, so let's take the people with disabilities who are entrepreneurs, one of them has written to me now, and they have problems in their business, these rights should even be expanded, here's not a lot of countries lose or Croatian roads but we can get a lot in terms of human standards and economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185094	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185095	Comrade Sagar, you have understood well and it is good that you will support this bill, you will be able to sleep peacefully because the moment we become aware that a certain group of citizens has been discriminated against, we have reacted and you will react in the right way and I think it is perfectly fine. You've got it all figured out, I think most of the MPs here today have absolutely figured it out. Refusing a law like this doesn't really have any real reason except, here, I don't find any valid reason to reject this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185096	The Republic has a respected representative, Sabolek, on a respected colleague, Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185097	Thank you. Mr. Vidovic, in your presentation you referred to that the disabled is a person, I agree with you, is a disabled person. We have the right to be released by persons with 80% disability or 60% of the disability of the lower extremities, which means that other people or as you mentioned, are disabled, paying for still the most expensive highways in Europe because we currently have the most expensive roads in Europe. The fact is that Austria, Hungary, Slovenia, they all pay about 120 euros a year for the whole year, pay that vignette, and they come freeways, they can drive for 120 euros a year. I can confidently tell you that the relations of Čakovec-Zagreb, five working days a month, come to the moon 1300 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185098	Thank you very much. The reply of the respected representative Vidovic. Comrade Vidovic, press. Now, it's working.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185099	I pressed, it worked. Dear colleagues, I have no intention to elaborate here what Croatian highways are doing and their traffic, nor is it a topic at all today. So there are other topics where we can talk about it. If you ask me if the payment system for Croatian highways is fair or not, this is how I can casually tell you my position on it, it is not fair. Should I introduce the vinjets? Yes, but my conclusion is that it was made on the basis of some personal experience and a highway ride, it's really not relevant to make any decisions. So you need to take a look at what's really going on here and see what's the debt on those highways. No one gave us highways, we made them ourselves. Yeah, you can spin your head with your money, my money, their money, your citizens' money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185100	Thank you. So I'm going to conclude a debate on this point, and we're going to vote on it when we get the conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-07-0.u185101	Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Roads, first reading, P.Z. No. 604. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending the Roads Act is not accepted. I find that most of the vote is 77 for, 20 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. But before that we are now going to the first item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on National Infrastructure of Spatial Data, first reading, P.Z.E. the number 835 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. I would now like an additional explanation to be given to us by the motionary. With us is Honorable Zeljko Uhlir, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go.
