ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5332	We are going to apply to, in fact, the presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, first in front of the Homeland Movement is Mr. Stipo Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5333	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In front of the Homeland Movement, I will talk about one of the most endangered minorities in the Republic of Croatia, which I belong to, and these are Croatian defenders. In the Homeland Movement, we don't put them under one denominator that they're just defenders, they're missing people, there's disabled people among them, there's campers among them, there's people who committed suicide. Today I'm going to talk about this very scary information, about the suicide of Croatian defenders. Among all the topics that this assembly will deal with for its term of office, I would like to highlight one that I find very important and very important, it is about 3100 defenders who have taken their own lives for policies like they have been legalizing here for decades, and are being set up in the Ban Courts. So ten of them were not killed, 50 were not killed, 100 were not killed, three thousand were killed, and a hundred, which was to the extent that the Croatian authorities had raised their hand to themselves. Those three thousand and a hundred defenders survived grenades, bombs, bullets, camps, huge Serbian aggression and war, but they could not survive this peace. They were stronger than the horror of war, but they couldn't deal with the horrors of peace, of robbery, of corruption and of kidnapping. I am sure that each of us defenders knows at least one of our fellow fighters who has taken his own life and we are aware that he has done so solely for the sake of the policy they have experienced as traitorous and anti-Croatian. That means 400,000 of their comrades are just as unhappy with this peace as you are now. How many politicians and our tycoons as well as quasi managers who have been in conversion and privatisation since the '90s... Buy a cheap factory, commit suicide? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll tell you, none of them committed suicide. There are twice as many defenders who have taken their own lives as the politicians who have gone through this Parliament from an independent Croatia, and we all know that today is the tenth assembly of the Parliament. We have been killed by an entire brigade of elite soldiers, I ask you why?, has this tall house ever met and discussed it?, has he tried to take thorough measures to prevent the frightening number of suicides in the population most responsible for the state of Croatia? In this place, several laws have been passed, which are perceived by the public as a privilege of the defence population, while at the same time in discussions and numerous acts, we disdain them as sacred as possible, which is the homeland. Defense honor and pride cannot be bought with benefits and money. They seek a fair national policy with solid foundations of patriotism. That's exactly what three thousand and a hundred of them say. I fear that the ruling HDZ and SDSS coalition under the cover of reconciliation will pass new harmful laws that defenders will interpret as issuing national interests and cause new insurmountable disappointments for the defenders to whom Croatia is all. So on their behalf I appeal and, please, gentlemen of the HDZ, do not pass or prepare laws that go against the feelings of the defenders, first agree them with those who were willing to die for this country, then only then with your coalition partners. If you do otherwise, you'll be the one whose finger will be on the gun trigger aimed at the defenders. I will now mention a boy, his friend who fought on the Trpinjska road, Marinko Antunovic, a Bosnian from the village of Ljubaca near Tuzla, voluntarily came to Vukovar, passed the Hell of Vukovar, passed the Flash, passed the Storm, passed BiH, in 2001 shot himself in the head. Unfortunately, we have these every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5403	It is now up to Mr. Zeljko Sačić who will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5404	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of Representatives and Representatives. I am not talking about Chetniks today, the Partisans, today I am going to talk about a topic that affects extremely many Croatian people, ordinary people, but I do think that this topic can very much relate to my respected predecessor of war hero Mlinarić. I'm going to talk to you about the tragedy and the drama of the unemployed before the layoff of the fired workers of the Rafineria Sisak with whom I had the opportunity to talk recently. I am familiar with their problems to a large extent, with the drama they are facing, the life drama, and they have been brought into this drama not by their own guilt in fact by one crime, mega crime, corruption, carelessness and non-protection of Croatian national interests. We have nothing to add, except to remind ourselves of the sadness and despair that most of these shares, the crucial ones have just sold us Croatian defenders from the Croatian Defence Fund in 2008 to the criminal incentive of the former, also the criminal Prime Minister Sanader, with the support of his, his then Minister Jadranka Kosor, who raised their hands, shamefully raised their hands, whether they were manipulated, whether they were, whether they were benefiting from it and any benefit, we can only guess because our country's institutions have not yet fully investigated and sold the crucial 7% of the shares, which led to a strategic partner, then Croatian states, INAs, Hungarians, MOLs owned 49 and some percent, and already practically had management of INA, and since 2009, has practically become, since 2009, the epidina of this family, the Sidina family, the Fadre, the Family, the Family, the Family, the Family, the Family of Sanhi, the Family, the Family, the Family, the Family of the Family, the Family, the Family, the Family of the Family, the Family of the Family of the Family, the Family of the Family, the Family of the Family, the Family of the Family of the Family, and the Family of San, and the Family of the Family of the I of the I of the I. Of which, they processed about 5 tonnes, 5 million tons of oil, which is domestically, sweet, which is heavy from the White Nights which is also, in a criminal way, sold who knows how much money, none of which we Croats know today, under which conditions the practically immeasurable White Night treasure is the find of oil that we had in our full possession, sold, given back to Russia, and when we stopped processing, in fact that oil combined, 1.9.2019 things began to fall intensively, intensely, and thus contributed to several objective circumstances, namely, little is known that INA suffered an attack, cyber attack, and even more, the coronary crisis had done everything and 297 workers were practically brought into an opportunity to remain without existence. And now we know this brief description, about it could be much, much longer, now we have 47 people so internally taken care of, we have one problem, 187 people who are practically talking about and they themselves that the best would be, and that's what we from the Croatian Parliament's pay phone now propose, that young people who have experience be left at work, to protect themselves, because then because bioenergy comes, the industrial centre will come to work in that place, then to take care of the elderly, as they can through severance, etc. Also, to encourage the Ministry of Agriculture to encourage certificates for planting and sowing and harvesting of that... which will be here in the future for the production of ethanol, and most importantly confuses Minister Ćoric yesterday, said here yesterday that they can't influence anything, that they have no influence, and imagine, they have 3 members of the administration and have 44% of the Croatian government in ownership [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So Minister Coric, please fire the members of the board first. [[Intruder: Time unfortunately.]] Croatian, representative in MOL administration [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And then we give that money to our workers to worry them right. [[Intruder: Mr. Sacic.]] As much as you can. [[Mr. Sacic, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5405	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Nemet will speak, i.e. to the position of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5436	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Yesterday, the mayors of all 10 Istrian cities next to the mayor of Istria county made another written appeal at the addresses of the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia, asking that given the continued good and stable epidemiological image in Istria County, the possibility that the current very restrictive epidemiological regime towards Croatia should be revised in a way that measures should be implemented selectively, at the level of the region, or county, rather than the country as a whole. I therefore call on the government of the Republic of Croatia to use all available diplomatic channels to assist this initiative. In front of us, namely, there was still a time when, in some normal circumstances before the Covida-19 epidemic, a very successful tourist season took place. Indicators say that interest in tourist arrivals from mentioned countries, but also other countries, still exist. This possible post-season tourism traffic would mean, of course, additional revenues. Speaking of tourism, this is an opportunity to take a brief look at the tourist season that is already behind us. Despite the many difficult circumstances caused by the pandemic of the coronaryvirus and the original very pessimistic prognosis, we have witnessed a relatively good and successful tourist season. In particular, this refers to July and the first half of August, followed by restrictive measures towards Croatia by tourist important countries. The reasons for that are more or less known and I won't be getting in here too much. I just want to point out that the deterioration of the epidemiological image in Croatia was not affected by tourism during the summer, the tourists did not bring the virus to us, but it was influenced by the irresponsible behaviour of individuals, and then by some decisions and measures that should have been taken. I just hope it'll be a good school for us all for next time. We didn't need evil. In the context of the reference to the tourist season, it is certainly important to give a great thanks and congratulations to all the tourist workers who brought this difficult and demanding season to their backs. That is why I should not have questioned the continuation of the economic recovery measures, in this case and in the tourism sector recently announced by the government. It is a very important link to retaining jobs and the viability of businesses and I sincerely hope that the announcement of an extension of the duration of the measures by the end of the year is only a technical issue and that the measures will be extended until the beginning of the season next year. However, the tourism sector whose revenues I remind you of is extremely important 20 per cent of Croatia's GDP, which is also the best export channel of the national economy, should also be supported by the state if, of course, we want Croatia's tourism to be successful and competitive in the coming season, and thus contributes to significant revenues in the real sector and public budgets at all levels. First of all, I will highlight the problem of a major fiscal and parafiscal burden that has put the Croatian tourism industry in an unfavourable position in relation to competition from other tourist countries for years. I therefore appeal to the Croatian government to show good will and understanding and to take concrete steps towards fiscal and parafiscal discharge. Finally, what Croatian tourism certainly needs is a new Tourism Development Strategy. It is in the works, and now it is an opportunity to define some new directions and frameworks for tourism development and to solve some key issues. As part of the strategy, it will certainly be necessary to focus on sustainable tourism and redefine the total tourist offer with the consent of all key stakeholders. But what is most important to me is that, in the end, we get not only a document in which a lot of things will be beautifully and soundly written, but it will be a real and just strategic platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5437	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Natalija Martincevic, who will present the position of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5453	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, I would like to draw attention to the importance of realising a major and strategic important project for Varazdinska, Međimurska and Krapina-Zagorje County, as well as a project of great importance for the whole country, which is to build a fast track of Čakovec-Varaždin-Leposlava-Zabok-Zagreb. I think you will all be interested in one piece of information, which is that today you can drive the highway from Varazdin to Zagreb in 50 minutes, and on the railway from the same Varazdin to Zagreb you will drive 2.5 hours. In the world today, the railway is the best means of transport, the simplest, cheapest, most environmentally acceptable. Many countries and especially EU countries have recognized and invested this precisely in rail infrastructure long ago. Unfortunately, Croatia has not yet recognised this and we are and we are in partnership with EU countries but unfortunately also in partnership with countries in the region at the bottom of all statistics, both in passenger and freight rail transport. It is extremely important here that both the state and the resolution ministry, and at the request and initiative of the People's Party – Reformists recognized this direction and put it in a strategy, unfortunately he was largely slowed down in the past term, but now the time has come for it to be realized. With the fast track project, you can quickly understand it conditionally because today the train in Europe is driving up to 320 km/h, so this would be a speed of 160 km/h but in Croatian terms it is a super fast railroad. So a fast track project called Lepoglavska sponnica and we're talking about the construction and modernisation of the railway line from Čakovec and Varazdin to Zagreb, which would lead Varazdin to 40 minutes to Zagreb and Čakovec at 50 minutes to Zagreb. What does this time difference mean for the northern region and especially for Varazdinska, Međimurska and Krapina-Zagorje County? Currently 4,000 people from Varazdinska and Međimurje County migrate daily to Zagreb. There are workers, there are students, so this railroad is extremely important for the mobility of our population. When we talk about the economy, then we talk about the cost of labour transport and the great potential for job creation. The best part of this is the fact that Varazdinska and Međimurje County are the leading exporters of the Republic of Croatia, here are few figures, so today these two counties together have 6.8% share in the population of the Republic of Croatia, while at the same time have a double and 11.6% share in the exports of the Republic of Croatia. Further reasons for the implementation of this project are certainly the fact that economic indicators clearly state that every kuna invested in the functioning of rail transport brings 4 kunas into the economy through direct and indirect effects. In addition to all of this, this railway is also a national interest because this direction would connect Central Europe, i.e. Vienna, Prague, Budapest with the Republic of Croatia, so we would, for example, lead Zagreb to Vienna for about 3 hours and 20 minutes. But it's crucial and we would also link Central Europe to our largest and most important port, which is the port of Rijeka. Now here we come to a serious problem, which is the fact that Slovenia has been slowing down this project for years, obstructing all possible ways because it is of course an interest to them to protect their port of Kopar, which would make the realization of this project extremely important for Croatia, for the port of Rijeka, for connecting, strategically important step and an important step for our economy. And crucially, the EU is investing in therefore cheap, efficient and environmentally acceptable solutions and therefore this project can also be financed with 85% of European money. Finally, this project will have a strong impact on the economy, tourism but also on our key problem, it is a problem of demographics. People are basically staying in states and counties where the quality of life is tied up. The quality of life primarily implies the availability of jobs and, of course, adequate pay, but also the availability and arrangement of schools, kindergartens, universities, one-way classes, free transportation of students and a whole range of other facilities that we have provided in the Varazdin County for example, regardless of the fact that we are very close to Slovenia and Austria, we have one of the smallest rates of emigration in Croatia. In addition to all of the above, it is also very important to have a transport connection, and I therefore expect this Government to make every effort and engage all resources to prepare this project before the start of the new envelope in 2021-2027, in order for it to go into realisation and which was one of the key conditions for the reformist's support to this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5454	Thank you, too. Ms. Anka Mrak Taritaš will be the position of the IP, Smart and Glass Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5502	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. We think today is just one good day to talk a little bit about the state of justice in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia, and this is neither news nor secret, has a serious problem with the judiciary, both with its functioning and with the impression that citizens have about it. And out of that impression comes trust or mistrust in the judiciary of our own country, and this trust is disastrous with us. According to a regular annual survey by the European Commission on the state of justice of the Member States, we are also the worst in terms of the impressions that citizens have of judicial independence this year. We are not among the bad, we are not among the worst, we are the worst, the last in the EU. Our citizens don't trust their own judiciary and it's just like that. At the same time, we are second in line in the Union, right behind our Slovenian neighbours by the number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants, at the expense of the judiciary in part of GDP, we are third in Europe. So we have the most judges, we spend the most, and our trust is at the very bottom. It's the same situation year after year, and in situations like this we know that even when we're standing in a place we're actually going back because everyone around us is going forward. And then our Supreme Court, yesterday we had a chance to see it, make one of the decisions again why we all wonder together where all that money goes and what do all those judges do? The Supreme Court's decision to reduce the prison sentence of a child molested for 11 crimes, because he expressed regret, is another step deeper in the plague in which the Croatian judiciary is buried. In particular, the scandalous explanation of a decision that states, among other things, that the punishment is reduced because it is too serious for criminal acts that do not directly attack children’s sexual integrity. I'm not going to read what was written in the parentheses, all of it, you have a chance to read it yourself. The third branch of government in Croatia is placed above the citizens to be served and justice is not shared in Croatia even by those most vulnerable children. The main concern is that this is the Supreme Court's decision, the most judicial instance in Croatia. The court should be a haven for anyone whose rights have been violated in lower court proceedings. This case, like many others before it, shows that Croatia urgently needs judicial reform and not some general that serves only as an empty phrase but an unsustainable, thorough and effective human reform. Unfortunately, it is clear where this mistrust of our citizens comes from in the judiciary. They are unable to protect even those most vulnerable to whom the most serious crimes have been committed. So we all need to ask ourselves together, how will they deal with the file in Agrokor case, which has more than 80,000 pages, and no one understands that. Today we have opportunities to see and see what kind of debate this courtroom will be, whether it will be in the hall, how it will all be heard together, how many years it will take, will it be 10.15, 20 years? After the process is long, after 15 or 20 years, no one will know why it was and why it was launched and why it was going on. And therefore no wonder the perception of all our fellow citizens when it comes to the judiciary, when the perception of them is that our judiciary is indeed at the lowest possible levels. So this is one of the times we need to wake up and do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5503	Thank you, too. Now it is Mr Silvano Hrelja who will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5541	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Every month, the governor of the CNB, Prime Minister, Miljka Didulica and I pay the same amount of monthly fee for HRT 80 kuna. Mine as well as your salary is good, the prime minister's even better, the governor's best, and the lady. Milk receives a pension of 723.98 kuna, isn't this absurd, pays the same because we're all, we have a sign of equality that we're all owners of tv receivers, right absurd, don't you agree? It is. The Milke Diduce case I've been reading about these days confirms that bureaucrats often have to put their hearts in a drawer so they can do their job. The widow of Sunja is 91 years old. And 723.98 kuna pension. Mrs. HRT. Milky doesn't want to grant a reduced subscription because she's a new subscriber. According to their regulations, if she came in October 2015 with less than 1,500 kuna, they would give her the benefit of a 50% reduction in the TV fee, but she couldn't, because then the subscriber was her late husband who recently died. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the The explanation of HRT is that it has failed to meet formal legal requirements, and that the rules are important in order not to abuse the right in such a way that households as the owner of the receivers report their pensioners with poor pensions. From the perspective of HRT employees, a person with a small pension is a potential threat to their income, can you imagine that? And that’s what public services defend with their lives often not taking into account how those who pay for it live. Widow, widow Miljka with a pension of 723.98 kuna is an example that must be considered when making such socially sensitive decisions. If the decision is such that a pensioner with 723.98 kuna cannot obtain the right to a reduced charge, the decision is neither sensitive nor social. From the perspective of HRT, a pensioner with a pension under the poverty line is not a person to whom a reduced subscription should be granted but a golden coke of households that can save 40 kunas per month. Such a cynical view of people also ignores the fact that the highest, highest risk of poverty has exactly the older single households 48.1% and empathy that is hard not to feel when you read about Miljka. Socially sensitive measures should be a combination of these two factors, facts and empathy. If Miljka is not to the extent, the measure is not good. So, what you gentlemen change, change measures. And that's why I launched today an initiative to change this lifeless decision by the HRT Supervisory Board, which has so far been supported by 46 MPs and thank them for that. And you in the Supervisory Board seriously consider this initiative because HS appoints you, resolves you, discusses your reports and changes your laws. Therefore, take a step that is expected of you. Why are we entitled to this initiative? In 2015, a decision was taken on the HSU initiative, with which pensioners with a monthly income of less than 1,500 kuna paid 50% of the tax. Furthermore, in February 2020, which has not changed since then. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the procedure, HSU sends a draft law supplementing the HRT Act requiring that all subscribers with monthly incomes of less than 1,500 kuna do not pay a RTV fee at all, and 50% are paid by those with between 1,500 and 2,340 kuna revenue. In the proposal, we also point out, in our proposal today, that the above decision of the Supervisory Board discriminates against all pensioners who went into retirement after 12 October 2015, the decision discriminates and based on age between low-income pensioners and other citizens with the same and lower incomes. [[Intruder: Time sir]] Thank you very much, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5542	And I'm sorry, I'm not sorry I had to interrupt. Mr. Miro Bulj will now be the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5561	Thank you very much. Here's the break time, I have to say and send another message to the citizens, mostly 2/3 of Croatia that are empty, yes, and also to us here that the focus of the last months is that. After the elections and before the elections, he was mostly in Zagreb because of the unpleasant event which was, meaning natural disaster, it was an earthquake and the most talk about Zagreb was. However, damages that have areas that are not mentioned are not in the centre of Croatia, these are areas where we are coming from parliamentary representatives from rural so-called. areas, so I would just refer here to a random one, the other day to visit Prime Minister Plenkovic who came to talk again about projects that every 4 years. mentions in the area of Dalmatian Zagora i.e. Split-Dalmatia County, so you would publicly send a message here although I don't know if any of them are listening to this, we see when, that the breaks put us exactly at a time when absolutely no interest is shown to hear it, but I hope that they will reach this voice of me as a parliamentary representative representing people in the Dalmatian area, and few of us here are from that area which is a huge area, which is great potential. Two years ago, 2.5 years ago. in Split was a cabinet session, 2 billion kuna projects were promised, up until now 0 kuna was made, and the other day the prime minister promised in Split with Blaženko Boban who absolutely did nothing for the Split-Dalmatia County except that even more people left Split-Dalmatia County and Mayor Opara promised the same projects again, but 11 times the number of promises i.e. The number in the money, 22 billion of something. The brothers have been cluing billions, as they say in Dalmatia from Krka to Neretva only since the county was founded is 100,000 people less, in the Cetitin region this year we have 2 classes of fewer first-graders. I would ask the question here, the key projects, I gave in the last term, in the mandate here and the amendments, to warn the problems, so several projects to be implemented, and even here, former Minister Bosnjakovic, who, in the last term, shut down the municipal court in Sinj and Dalmatinski Zagor, shut it down without a shred of conscience, worrying about the area. You made a burnt country, you and your prime minister in that area and all the mayors, the total burned country. And don't promise fake projects. When you were given amendments here to connect the Cetinski region to the fast road Kukuzovac – Križice, you, your Government, why, if 2016 documentation is launched for what? The only thing he's done is make up the Cetina River to make fun of the environment, and then, the environmental threat is not to preserve the environment. Here we are today, to make fun of us, and today we're discussing Dinara Nature Park. Don't make fun of us anymore. What about the projects you promised at the session where you were Minister Bosnjakovic because you're the only one here now from that time, what about the projects? Nothing, zero, it's not funny, it's the cry of that people, I get how much you hold on to that people you don't even have representatives from those areas, that from the Cetina region it's not zero, I'm the only one left, you don't care. They serve you, that people only as a voting body where you throw your hand at your heart and call for patriotism. You've done more damage, bigger than all the occupiers of the Turks, all those who passed down, fascists, communists, Nazis, all the Serbs, these, those who, all of you, are more pests, no project, zero kunas invested in this area. You're worse than an elemental accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5562	Finally, in front of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, Mr Tomislav Tomašević will stand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5563	Thank you. I think today is a very good day to talk a little bit about public enterprises and how public enterprises are managed in Croatia. Those who were here yesterday during the debate on the Law on Forests will remember that I was talking about how public enterprises are managed at the state level, but also at the local level. I took the example of the Croatian Forests, reminded that then the president of the Croatian Forests Administration was arrested just a few months ago for an investigation involving Josip Rimac, we will see how this investigation will continue. However, what I think is a general place I don't know if we can even discuss here is the news that public enterprises in Croatia are managed as more or less by party ATMs and that's more of a rule than an exception. The way public business directors are staffed is that they are mostly party people, party personnel, we see today a president of the board of directors who was arrested, he is burdened with trading influence, and we will also see how this investigation will go on. However, he is one that he would say the eternal almost fit for the director of public enterprises. Most of them are being placed partyically, so when we look formally under the law as it goes in the public business assembly, we can talk about JANAF as a state-owned company and also about Water Supply in Velika Gorica, which is also mentioned in this affair today as a local public enterprise. In general, it means either those public enterprises in the assembly or the resolution minister is a member of the assembly if it is state-owned enterprises, and if it is local public enterprises, it is the mayor. And then we have an administration that chooses how to choose, I say party personnel, if there are public tenders they are pre-arranged and even rarely when competition appears in these public competitions, we mainly have one candidate. But what is even more important is that the Supervisory Board, which should oversee the work of public enterprises, would be its purpose in every company is also set up by the authorities, in a way that members of that Supervisory Board are almost exclusively party listeners, so that we have a party actually control over the communications companies both by the assembly and by the administration, and then what is worst by the Supervisory Board. So, most of the time, it's still happening inside these public companies, so that when these public companies are discussing different public procurements, they often go back to winning different private again, private companies that you still won't believe donate to the parties that are in power in these cities or at the state level, and that's how everything goes fine in the circle, it's created so-called. A circular economy we can call it that. The solution, obviously a systemic problem, is mentioned here today, we will see in five hours the Mandate-Immunity Commission will have a session to decide whether to remove the immunity of colleagues from our parliamentary representatives in this particular affair today and HDZ personnel and SDPs and HNSs are also mentioned. I think it's a structural problem, a way of even managing public enterprises on the legal framework and on the practice. The solution to this is to change the way the boards of directors of public enterprises are elected, to change the composition of the supervisory boards of public enterprises, etc. democratisation of public enterprises. Public enterprises are public in order to achieve public interest, and it should be the public who oversees how public enterprises are managed and whether they are indeed managed in the public interest. There are therefore a number of examples across Europe and at local and national level in a way that, in the supervisory committees other than the representatives of the government, which, of course, is normal, also puts the representatives of workers, which according to the Law on Commercial Companies should one be, but we believe that there should be more because this one is not enough and there is always pressure within a public company. However, what is most important is that public companies' supervisory committees have users present. Users, in the case of municipal services of these utility services, if they are public undertakings, means physical users, companies, representatives of the association of companies that are users of these public enterprises, independent experts by expanding this social surveillance of public enterprises because it is the only structural grenade that public undertakings will be managed in the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u5564	Thank you very much. According to our deal, we now have a break by 3:00. Thank you very much. It's the first time I've ever seen one of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6225	Honorable MPs, esteemed MPs good morning. Let's get back to work, dot, buddy Bull, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6226	Nothing to finish, I thought I'd take a break to look at this point so when...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6227	So you're giving, let's stick to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6228	Sorry, hey, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6229	Comrade Bencic, here you go. Well, at least let me announce the point, come on. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 16 The Proposer is the Government under Article 85. The Constitution and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, before I give my word to my colleague Bulj and my colleague Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6230	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club MOST for 10 minutes, this proposal on concession is being laid down by the Croatian Assembly under cover that the request for the interest of the Republic of Croatia is not determined, the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, in the Croatian Parliament. It would be best if you had passed the law here to propose to us to rule the assembly entirely because otherwise you gave the entire Republic of Croatia in concession and ownership of who knows whose interests other than the interest of the Croatian people. Let's not list all the concessions you've given against the interest of the people from the source of drinking water, for example. Cetina's source at the meeting of the Government of Zoran Milanovic in 2015, 37 seconds were debated, 37 seconds about the award of concessions to the source of Cetina to foreign investors. 5,000 kuna a month. And so all the sources. Gives more agricultural land, give our energy resources you have also given in a concession against the interest of the Croatian people, the interest of the party that tears only money from the pockets of Croatian citizens through the Law on Renewable Elections of Energy brought to you by the coalition partner Ivan Vrdoljak yours from HDZ. So these are the damages you're going to do here, if you want to rush her here immediately in the process. For this reason, colleagues and colleagues, because the government is dissuasive to us, I am asking our parliamentary representatives to withdraw this law from the procedure and to normally be given in a minimum of 2 readings and to give the public more information on this. A lot of sales of interest to the Republic of Croatia and national resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6231	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. Here you go, fellow Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6232	Thank you. We are also looking for a 10-minute break so that other opposition MPs and MPs can consult on the situation that this law is put into emergency procedure, however, with reasons that it is in line with EU law. The very reasoning of the law states that in fact the law is changed for the reason that Croatia has received, therefore the European Commission's decision on infringement of law, but the content of the decision is not attached. It seems to us that the argument did not cover the full text of that decision, and that certain articles not covered by that decision were also amended in the proposal itself. We would indeed ask that the decision be attached to the text of arguments, whole, translated so that all MPs can, so that all MPs can read and understand, because only in this way can we actually assess whether everything that now enters into changes to the law on concessions is really requested by the European Commission, or whether it is only a reason to actually liberalise the concession system in particular in the part of the debt and especially in the part where the Republic of Croatia is actually cutting the possibility of breaking the contract when it comes to public interest violations of the Republic of Croatia. So we think that this is an extremely important topic, that we have problems with the way concessions are given anyway, with the transparency of the whole process, with the way decisions and procedures are published, and I don't think it's a good idea to increase our mistrust and give arguments for mistrust in the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6233	The apartment will also be approved for you. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6234	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am also seeking a 10-minute break in order to give the Croatian public first of all the correct attitude and the exact circumstances why this law is being passed. Both Mrs. Bencic and Mr. Bulj would have told them to read the law better, to determine for themselves how many they missed in their requests for a break. This law does not devastate the Croatian Parliament. When it comes to the possibility of ending the contract, when the Croatian Parliament finds that it is of public interest. It is said here that it is not possible to modify the concession agreement on the basis of public interest... to establish Hs because these assumptions must be defined and established before the concession contract is concluded itself. However, if this requires the public interest of the Republic of Croatia, the HS shall be based on an article. Seventy-two Mr. Bull, read it, based on an article. In the 72nd year of this law, it may request that the concession contract be annulled. Therefore, the law and HS do not defuse these amendments to the law when it comes to the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And to Mrs Bencic, he would also say that HS has established to its Rules of Procedure that amendments to the law are being made as a matter of urgency when it is being done to comply with European directives. Mrs. Bencic would like to say that he can find wherever he wants, he just needs to make a little effort, and therefore there are clubs in HS, read a directive from which and why this law is harmonised, and he would see that this amendment is in line with that directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6235	Thank you very much. A fellow Bull's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6236	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Bačić was injured by an article. 238. The Rules of Procedure said that I should read this proposal... /The speakers speak at the same time. /... read the article. 62nd point 2 to delete HS... /The speaker is disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6237	I shut you down because this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know it very well, and please, yes, you've been experienced for a long time in the Parliament, don't do it. You're getting a warning. Thank you very much. All right, let's move on. A break will be granted. Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6238	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for giving me your word, and we are looking for a break in front of the House's Club of Representatives, because here we are completely clear and presently playing with the territory of the Republic of Croatia as one of the constituents of what we can call a nation and national pride. Dear colleague Bačić, who is here, tells us that we would like to read a little bit, that for years we have been reading all kinds of devils of members of your side about the award of concessions, so please read the directive as well, I believe you have had time to do so. The directive also accurately states that there is a need to consult and articles of the Public Procurement Act, not to mention the Law on concessions and here before us is a proposal to amend and amend the Law on concessions in which it is all very vague and foggy, and we know that playing in the fog is something that is very, very, very popular with you and your friends. Here we have just received information that the police have arrested Mr. Mayor of Velika Gorica, something related to JANAF, and I believe it will be very, very interesting to follow in the coming days. The reason we're looking for a break is of course an article. 206. The Rules of Procedure of the HS which discusses the adoption of an emergency procedure, not only to seek a break but also to withdraw from the parliamentary procedure because by harmonising with the EU and the Council of Europe, it is not clear in the items of conflict of interest, in the concession process, but also, of course, the vague link between certain articles of the Law on concessions and the Law on Public Procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6239	Stanka will be approved to you, too. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 9:55. A.M.S.A. At 9:43 p.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:57 A.M.]] As I have announced, the proposer's representative will now give us an additional explanation of the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions, so I ask the Honorable Zrinasic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6241	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. As regards the Law on concessions, I would just like to remind myself that it was adopted at the meeting of the HS on 30 June 2017 and published in the National Journal in 69 and was adopted in order to comply with Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of a concession agreement. The EU Commission has carried out the evaluation of the transposition of the directive in national legislation, therefore in this law and through an official notice, i.e. attestation No 2018/2269 informed the Republic of Croatia of the results of the evaluation and expressed its concerns and issues raised when verifying compliance itself. The Republic of Croatia sent a reply, then held 2 meetings with EU representatives in July and September 2019 and discussed the above provisions. Since certain segments have established that the provisions of the Directive have been incomplete or incompletely transposed, it has been approached by amending the Law on concessions proposed on this occasion and which is before you as representatives of the HS. These standards are contained in only 17 articles, norms, and are essentially related to the following. Amendment to the definition of an economic operator. Namely, the definition of an economic operator was one of the remarks made by the EU Commission on the transposition of the directive itself, i.e..../incomprehensible/... according to that official notice, that the concept of an economic operator must be widely interpreted because such restrictions, i.e. a restrictive interpretation of the concept of an economic operator, restricts the scope of the Directive and considers that it constitutes an infringement of the provisions of the Directive. The EC believes that economic operators should be interpreted in this broad sense regardless of the legal form in which they have chosen to act individually. So, so far, our norm has been in the context of the ZTD provision, they have demanded it in the broader and in this sense in the Art. 5 an existing definition which said that the economic operator is a natural or legal person or a community of those persons who offers on the market the performance of works or jobs, the delivery of goods or services, is now changed in such a way that the interpretation-economic entity is a natural or legal person, including a branch or public body or a community of those persons or a body, including any temporary association offering on the market the performance of works or jobs, the delivery of goods or the provision of services. Therefore, the words ‘including a branch or a public body or a body including any temporary association thereof’ were essentially added. Furthermore, the provisions of the conflict of interest have been specified, in a way that we have linked these standards to the norm of the Public Procurement Act, so it is in art. 7. added the words "in accordance with the specific rules governing public procurement, which relate to conflict of interest". The Directive also provides for concessions between public entities as well as in the field of defence and security, and if national legislation does not want to give such things into sub-concession, as decided by the Republic of Croatia, so that concession providers do not grant concessions to each other and that there is no concession in the area of defence and security, it was necessary to transpose that standard into national legislation, and in that sense the provisions of the Article have been complemented. Article 7 8. with those provisions. Furthermore, other reasons have been added for excluding an economic operator in terms of the possibility of obtaining a concession, and so is the case. Twenty-five other reasons were prescribed, so I'd just count it for a little bit. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. 62nd, the EU Commission considers that Croatia has violated the Article. 43. The directive, which is why I would quote an existing standard of art. 62. where it states that a concession contract can be amended without the launch of a new concession procedure in cases, and under 1st time, when HS finds that national security and defence of the state, environment or human health are at risk, then, under 2nd, if the interest of the Republic of Croatia is required in HS and under 3rd, in other cases, by a specific law. Therefore, the EU Commission’s observation was related to this point 2 where interpretation, if required by the Republic of Croatia’s interest established in HS from their point of view, has been assessed arbitrarily, i.e. in the course of any arbitration proceedings, and that the existing points of first and third parties provide enough legal protection for the Republic of Croatia, and I repeat, the first point says when HS finds that national security and defence of the state, the environment or human health, or, point three, in other cases, by certain specific laws, and the European Commission considers that, if such matters are necessary, it is also necessary to adopt a specific law which determines or excludes it in the sense of termination of the contract or amendments to the Treaty on concession. Therefore, the more detailed method is to calculate the new assessment value of the concession, so far it has not been, and in that same article. In Article 62(7), it adds a provision to valorise or re-valorise the value, the concession value by indexation. If the concession Treaty does not contain provisions on indexation, then the average inflation shall also be taken into account. In addition, there are also provisions that have been amended in relation to the European Commission in the context of the suggestions and remarks made both within the state bodies and in the debate which was held at the 16th session of HS when this high home adopted this law in the first reading where there were no comments and suggestions other than those which I will now mention, and in this respect it was in this case as an emergency procedure, although it is procedural, means whatever the first reading was, the re-constitution of HS, it was necessary to repeat the procedure. So here's where the art is now. In 69, in order to cover the basis for the calculation of the concession fee, the amended provisions on the law on the sub-concession issue include the income of a sub-concessionaire or a negotiator. This provision prevents the avoidance of the payment of the actual benefits incurred in the concessioned area when the concessionary approves the sub-concession. Therefore, the current basis for calculating the concession constitutes the sole income of the concessionaire and the sub-concession fee is added. A new provision will enter this new foundation and the incomes of the sub-concessionaires. What does life mean? For example. if someone got a concession, and then he continues to sub-concession and his income was 100, and that sub-concessionist is now making his income 50. All 150 will be taken as a basis for the calculation, so that such a normative solution would be correctly evaluated for the benefits acquired in the concession area and to ensure a proper evaluation of the concession fee and make it impossible, at the end of the day, to play the basic principles and obligations of the concession Treaty. In addition, he would point out, during the meeting of the Committee on Law, and in the meantime we have received, we have been informed that there will be an amendment to the article. 11th, 12th and 13th, which are normative in nature, and in this sense as a legislator of the law, they would accept you, this amendment. Here, thank you very much for everyone's attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6242	Thank you very much. Now let's go with the replicas. First up, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6243	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the Secretary of State, referred to in Article 1 Article 9 is deleted. the existing law of the 62nd century, which is, in fact, expropriated by HS, but the reason is ridiculous that no strategic i.e. is defined. national interests. What are these national interests? So why wipe this out? It's the same to you that HS erases how war is declared because who knows war will be war, of course. So what is it you're dissipating HS for? According to the EU directive, it is not a sacred letter, it is not an order. We are the ones responsible to the people, we are the ones who make decisions regarding strategic interests, protecting our national resources, no directive is a directive, are we not a oppressed people or this The government thinks we are. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6244	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6245	Thank you very much to the esteemed representative for asking. In essence, the comments made by the European Commission are not about breaking down the HS but rather about the fact that this standard in point 2 is general and that it can be arbitral in any of the procedures which have already been completed or are ongoing in terms of already signed contracts and consummated concession agreements. The point was, therefore, that HS as stated in point 1, of course if it were national security and defence of the state, the environment or human health. And also there remains point 3 in which it is said that, in other cases, certain specific laws, which technically means that HS can always pass a special law, which will clearly and decidedly require treatment in each case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6246	The second is his colleague Zekanovic, he is gone, so he loses his right to the replica. He's a third colleague of Lalovac's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So maybe just the information that's in the budget now comes from the concession, and maybe some preliminary data if you have. And I know that we were already talking somewhere in April that the government would be given some kind of moratorium or reprogramme to these concession contracts was it affected then, so maybe if you had some last piece of information about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6248	Here, thank you very much for asking. So, as far as income is concerned, you're looking back at 3.G. and including these first 8 months 2020. They totalled a billion 437 million kuna in 2017, 2018, 321 million kuna, 2019, 68 million kuna, and for the first 8 months of this year 573 million kuna. He would point out that these 8 months are, of course, covered by this period of the herds where a significant part of these obligations is delayed. I would remind the IRS in part of its jurisdiction and the Customs Administration in part of its jurisdiction as a unit of local and regional self-government in part of its jurisdiction, each in its part went to meet in terms of economic operators to survive this period. Perhaps if you allow me to point out that in context and supervision the Customs Administration has spent 470 and 7 surveillance. [[Time, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6249	Thank you very much. You asked for a break from your colleague Zekanovic. My colleague Zekanovic, I beg you to lose your right to take a break. Because I called you, and you're talking there, you're losing your right to a break, I'm sorry you won't behave like this. [[/Intruder: Why, Mr. President?]] Have a seat, lose your right to a break. [[I'm sorry, I've been a little...]] This is how you behave... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Please sit down. You get a second warning [[Intruder: So...]] [[Intruder: The Croatian public must know, and you must prevent however you know and know the news.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6253	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I wanted to explain once again through this replica that this law does not govern the Croatian Parliament in any part of the decision-making process. These amendments to the law clarify that they are.../incomprehensible/... cannot or must be further explained which public interest it is to enter into the change of the contract. However, in Article 72 of the existing law, I ask those who misread it to be clearly determined when and in what way the contract can be terminated when requested by the Croatian Parliament for general interest, and the Law on concessions clearly defines what strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia and which, to which concessions are covered by this strategic interest, and in addition, the amendment of the Treaty can be defined by specific laws. So that's what I wanted to point out, I'm asking you to further explain when and how the contract can be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6254	Here, thank you very much, Your Honor, and thank you for your help in the context of the reasoning of this standard and the intensity of the law itself. I would further remind myself that the Law on concessions itself is also a roof law regarding concessions themselves, and otherwise the award and concession procedure is carried out in individual areas in terms of water, in terms of agriculture, in terms of other activities, so that this only roof law, therefore this point 3 says in other cases by specific law, means this is not a sacred letter in Article 62 that this is confused in terms of the conduct of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament clearly as the largest body can pass another law which will clearly determine what interests are and in which cases non-existent contracts can be terminated.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6255	Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6256	First of all, I would ask you to answer us why the whole text of the European Commission's decision on injury is not added in the reasoning of the bill, so that we, as representatives, can determine whether everything that is proposed really is in line with that which is written in the decision itself and whether it really meets the conditions of harmonisation with European law. The second question, as regards the termination of the contract when it is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, is, indeed, those interests are, i.e. the interest as such has been arbitrarily written has not been defined, however we have only 3 interests in paragraph 1 and should be added to the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia. Economic interest is also a legitimate basis in European law, therefore, and in decisions, numerous European Commission decisions, as well as one legitimate interest that is being protected, so that I feel beside the environment, national defences and security and health is absolutely necessary to add economic interest. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6257	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6258	For this first question, it would mention that this is not a decision but an official notice or confirmation by the European Commission, which is a common communication between the European Commission and the Member States in the context of any act or non-compliance of legal gain and country-specific norms. In this case, when we have transposed only the Directive, the European Commission has seen certain lacks of law and through this official reminder that classical communication between the European Commission is repeated and the state authorities, therefore it is not normally possible to do so, but not normally to put this communication in the sense of the notice as a contribution to certain laws. This does not mean that, after this adoption or amendment of these rules, the European Commission will not again consider this law as well as any other law. As regards this Article 62 standard, it is clear that it must be an economic interest RH and I agree. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6259	Thank you very much. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to refer to the subconcessions, namely that water, forest, agricultural land are public good, of interest to the Republic, that we must actually manage with a good master's march, and here at the beginning of some doubts and debates, and the public with care always monitors what happens to our waters, forests and agricultural land, and would like to hear a clear and uniform answer from you when it comes to subconcessions. Are subconcessions possible for water, forest and agricultural land or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6261	Yes, thank you very much. As far as your question is concerned, I would just repeat, so this is a roof law that determines how this concession is awarded, and as far as agriculture is concerned, a special law on agricultural concessions is further under discussion. In view of the fact that the law allows it to be marketable at the end of the day, competition, giving and concessioning of any concession goods. That's why in this case it's in Art. In 69. went further to change, even part of the norm was harmonised with the State Attorney's Office so that there would be no playing the existing norms of the law in terms of economic interest, as a colleague had just stated, so that he would get some concession on 100, and this would give in a subconcession that was not yet the basis for calculating the concession fee towards the Republic of Croatia. We hope they will now and we are confident that, in fact, this standard is now completely eliminated by such cases so far, and if there were any in the sense of trying to avoid paying concession fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6262	Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I don't understand why this law goes into emergency procedures. On the other hand, while I am against stereotypes, it is clear to me that there are stereotypes in the EU that there are countries that specialize in wine production, some products of olive oil, some products of airplanes, some products of cars, we are a beautiful country that is probably meant for rest, a beautiful, rich country, and there are a lot of those who have aspirations for what we have, which is called natural wealth. The sovereignty of a country is definitely territory, is a people and certainly is power. What I'm interested in, and you didn't answer Mrs. Petyr when it came to subconcessions. Do we assume that the EU is actually looking for a simple way to get to Croatia's wealth is it has so far been faced with a lot of manipulative actions when it comes to making the whole process simpler?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6264	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6265	Thank you very much. I think it's been rather pleasantly discussed in the sense of why the law is in an emergency procedure. I would just repeat that our intensity was, of course, making a decision about it HS, our intensity was in that sense that already on 7 April HS had adopted this law in the first reading. In the meantime, elections and re-establishment of HS and since there were no substantive remarks or proposals at these sessions, we have assessed that given the possibility provided by the HS Rules of Procedure to proceed to an emergency procedure. As for the second, the European Directive applies to all Member States, both the Republic of Croatia and any other Member State, and in that sense the whole directive has been transposed into this law, not only by this amendment now when we wish to fully comply. The very intensity of the directive I would not speculate, but in any case the wish was to introduce it throughout the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6266	Thank you, Secretary of State. Now it's my colleague Brumnic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6267	Respected by the Proposer. Your colleague Bencic warned you that you had not delivered all the elements on the basis of which you could make a quality decision. You said it was a practice. I think that practice is bad and should be changed in the future. But my question was about something else. This law is not prescribed anywhere within which the existing concessions are to be aligned with this law, and it is possible to give in a sub-concession or to place a mortgage on existing concessions. So I'm asking you because there are concessions that are very expensive for the citizens of this country, do you think and how do you think to solve the problem that first someone has to comply with this law that has good elements, and only then can they do other legal actions in relation to the economic viability of that concession? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6268	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6269	Thank you very much. I did not say this at first that it was not common in terms of official documents, but this is communication between the national authorities and the European Commission, so in this sense it is not usual to deliver communications between the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission or the Ministry of Agriculture in that sense I just said. Clearly, if anything needs to be clarified or complemented, we are fully available and if we want to assess whether we have passed on all official warnings, it is not in itself an act in which it is said, as the directive must, and so is a reminder in the context of non-compliance, so a procedural document. As far as the latter is concerned, it is clear that the law has been passed since 2017 and in the process for the last three years all contracts were to be harmonised, and those that were in force obviously until the end of the contracts themselves unless the law itself required otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6270	We've come to an end with replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If we don't, then we'll go now with the debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge and Honored counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6271	Thank you very much. Respected citizens, respected colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. I wish the minister were around such important laws. When we talk about concessions, concessions are a source of corruption, nepotism, robbery of good Croatian peoples. We can go back, I'll also quote this law as to what is controversial, and I think this law should be withdrawn, the Mosta Club, that it should not be referred to the EU directive. Croatia is otherwise an insane state as far as the law is concerned, so that in that forest the law can only happen, here is a colleague Bacic mentioned earlier that I am telling the truth, there may be a Golden War. You know what happened in the Gold War? So it can happen that the maritime good, the submarine and everything else we have in the Republic of Croatia can be manipulated because it's insane. And we, as obediently now, suddenly have the EU directive to dispel HS if HS does not know what the strategic national interest is. But that's why he knows down in my county, the mayors knew that the strategic national interest of the Golden War in Brač, that they gave a fine concession, without any problems, that lipo you give, and how much this is expensive, here, we'll have the announcements of Dinar Park, the natural park of Dinar at the same time they gave concessions,... concessions for dinara drilling, Dinara research and many other things when they gave concession at the same time to go away, Minister of the same, Ćoric, which is why I'm saying that the Ministry of Economy and Environment is fire and water, that this is a mistake that has been brought together, at the same time he announced the concession to drill Dinara, to explore hydrocarbons probably INA MOL, Hungarians who will drill, I guess in the interest of the Croatian people they will investigate it, as they did on the Adriatic, so they got the results from this foreign company that were drilling, Croatia and there are no results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, the park is declared to be a running procedure for declaring Dinar Nature Park. Why? Because we're all manipulative, insane. And from what right, Secretary of State, without any documentation, explanations, arguments, to say, the EU directive tells you, gentlemen whom the people have chosen, you are nothing. So let's disband the Parliament. Rewrite this directive, the sea of a man who we have in the system today, on the computer of the print, overwrites that directive, Andrej Plenkovic, the prime minister is otherwise called upon to be respected, i.e. Influenced within the EU, copy this and not the Croatian Parliament's triba. Dispose of us, make a dictatorship as it was during the end of Alexander. Make a dictatorship, and that's why we, colleagues and colleagues, if people chose us and that mandate, would disprove ourselves that we don't know what strategic national interest is. In an explanation, the Parliament has never used that. So now we'd have to agree if I didn't know, erase and war if there was no way to declare war because what anyone would declare or ever will be. That's why we can't let this law pass. Calling for.../incomprehensible/... the last term in the first reading is ridiculous because in the first reading you can't give the amendment, and the proposal is, what you said, you'll throw it under the wallpaper, so this is all pushing, this is all under the grain, so suspicious, that you can break us down, HS, and you're not able as a Croatian government to divide 400 thousand hectares of agricultural land into a concession for the Croatian peasant. To imitate the country, to be self-sufficient, and now suddenly the EU directive, you see Croatian parliamentary representatives, you what people have chosen, fairly. 62th century 2 of the former law, i.e. The current law, with this proposal, we will erase it because you have no right to decide. That the people chose you, who cares. You give the entire lipo of Croatia in a concession to European bureaucrats and let them lipo prescribe what is for the concession, how we will give our water sources as we have called, I have also said, as the source of Cetina 2015 discussed 37 seconds to a foreign investor, to draw water, sell water on, not guilty to that investor, he probably took advantage of that possibility, and who decided, 37 seconds to argue in the Government. 37 seconds. For 30 years, 5,000 kuna a year, the source of Cetina, clear clear water. And now that water, of course, is exported, people have huge profits, and people around don't even have to pay for electricity, where they live, an empty area,... on the road, a beautiful area for the life of a Croatian man who could exploit it, our brains, our people, however, in 37 seconds, 5,000 kuna per month, and these 3 cows that have a drink of 5 thousand kunas of water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's true. And now all of a sudden, the Parliament needs to be disembarked. Secretary of State, let us take this article down and you bring it to us to do this, best be, colleague Bačić, you as the biggest party in power, to bring this lipo one conclusion and say, we will rule the Parliament out of all things, we will introduce a dictatorship, you can vote whatever you say, whatever you say, whatever the Prime Minister comes in here with the rightful answer to the MPs, it would not be the word that he named us, that he, like you, the child of his, is not, we are parliamentary representatives, and therefore the President of the Parliament and the chairman of always has to, any chair, must be in the protection of parliamentary deputies because it is the mandate that has given us the people. What, what grade we'll get, we'll see. I think, once again on behalf of the Bridge Club to withdraw, I ask you, I demand of you, I demand of you, colleagues and colleagues, to be unanimous, to draw a conclusion to the president of the HS that this item of the agenda is withdrawn until the whole paperwork is given. This is the last reading. In fact, you've brought this law to us as a coward's egg that we're dissipating ourselves. What will happen to Croatian strategic resources? What's going to happen, by sea, we don't have the strength to declare IGP to protect that part, it's twice in the last session, the Mosta Club has proposed to declare the IGP, full-fledged, not ZERP, but full implementation of the IGP with all.../incomprehensible/... these components. You didn't want to, you didn't have the courage for some directive, someone wrote in the Brussels directive, that at the time when Carla Del Ponte, Carla Del Ponte came to Zagreb and then all those patriots toast Sanader, Colinda,... A colleague of Bacic's who were, Mesic, all toasting Kolinda, uh, Charlie Del Ponte's arrest of our generals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So our government celebrated the arrest, and then how will it relate to national resources? That's why I suggest that you colleagues from ruling, you, on behalf of the government, send a conclusion to rule out HS, it would be more correct, at least know what it's about, wouldn't the tribune people pay us, wouldn't tribals come here for nothing, and not create manipulations and suitable ground. So we see what's going on with JANAF, weird, so what's weird about JANAF? What happened to the INA? What about the wind parks? What about all the resources we have in the Republic of Croatia? With solar energy, what is it? 0.3% of the solar energy in Croatia is from the total energy produced by the EU 5%, Finland more than Croatia, and we are rich, God-given that we have many sunny days. Everything will be, if this goes through with our colleagues and colleagues, we're dissipating ourselves with this article. The 62nd to be deleted is 2nd, read it well. No directive of this EU can sway us. They took everything from us, if we give this and let the government decide then the triba disband us, not the triba parliament. Why is the people paying us? Why am I coming from Sinjo to receive a salary here? Why? Let's release HS better, let me repeat this one more time, pull this back, and I urge you fellow MPs and MPs not to support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6272	My colleague, Bačić, is in violation of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6273	... Mr. President. [[Speaker not enabled]] He's an injured colleague. 238. because Mr. and colleague Bulj is speaking directly to me on several occasions and trying to convince me and parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public that his delusions in this law are the normative regulation of this law. Comrade Bull, you're wrong. This law does not devastate HS, it is clearly inscribed in several provisions of the existing law [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6274	Comrade Bačić, this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, this was a replica and I'm giving you a warning. Here you go, buddy Bull. What do you need?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6275	My colleague Bačić said everything wrong, and I support you and withdraw this breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6276	Okay, thank you very much. You're the one who picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6277	Dear President of the Assembly, we are asking for a break on behalf of the Croatian sovereigns for 10 minutes, since you did not give us one before the presentation of your colleagues Bulja, to further consult on this law and so on. 62nd, but in order for everyone to consult on whether there is a ruling majority in HS since the law has arrived... MPs, of which one member of the ruling majority. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, the President of the Assembly and you violated the Rules of Procedure because you removed his colleague Zekanovic immediately, and you did not give him two warnings before that, that is an article. 237.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6278	My colleague Pavliček, this is how I'm going to stop you, so now you're just a little bit in violation of the Rules of Procedure, so a break can be sought because of the agenda point, that's the first thing. Secondly, I see that counterpart Zekanovic made a statement to the media in which in an untrue way he depicts what happened here. He wasn't there first when it came to his replica, so he didn't get the word. Afterwards, he walked into the assembly room, ran in and asked for a break, and I gave him a break. However, at the time I granted him a break he walked and went to the other side, talked to you, I invited him two or three times to return, he completely ignored me and then I took away the opportunity to search and explain the break. I had no idea what he wanted to talk about, and now he's telling the media that I stopped him from talking about this removal of immunity for two MPs. So in a very ugly and untrue way, it shows what happened in the assembly. I'm obliged to react now and explain exactly what it was about. So, I can't give you a break on this basis, but I'm not hiding anything, you're free to speak, go outside the assembly and say whatever you want, but there's order here, procedure and Rules of Procedure and we have to stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6279	I agree with you that we should all stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6280	Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Let's go this way, now it's time for the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists and respected colleague Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6281	Thank you, well-respected speaker of the assembly, respected and respected colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. In Croatia, the question of concessions is governed by the Law on concessions and the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, where the first one is considered general and the second one is a special law, which is not mutually harmonised and which are applied on the basis of two different legal principles and what is actually in this law and problem. The legal framework is further agreed on because of the fact that it has been since 2014. in force and Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the award of the concession Treaty adopted in order to protect competition in which long-term concessions are considered all concessions longer than 5 g. As long-term concessions are considered to have a negative impact on competition, this is the EU's view. They don't encourage longer concessions. On the other hand, in the Croatian legal system it is possible to issue concessions for the period from 5 to 99 years, which is in itself controversial. Here's what you're looking at is 4 investment cycles or two lifetimes, concessions of any length of 20 years. It's actually questionable, for 100 years. The question is whether we'll actually have a state in this form. Under the conditions of non-compliance of two laws, the Law on concessions and the Law on Maritime Goods and Seaports, and in the conditions of application of two legal principles, we consider it necessary to propose 5 amendments in order to adequately protect the public interest of the Republic of Croatia. The first amendment to be submitted shall apply to the Article. 3. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions and makes it impossible to grant a concession on maritime good for tourism purposes over a period of 99g. This amendment to HSLS invests in the light of the fact that the previous meeting discussed the possibility of a deal to be concluded at the site of Muzil in Pula to grant concessions on 99.g. Including the marine well-being. Maritime well-being is generally of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Concession of 99 C.E. in the maritime good, it endangers competition and is in line with the European Parliament's directive No. 23rd of 2014 Section 3, Art. The 18th century and the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, particularly within the EU, which considers the long-term concession an obstacle to competition. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 4th and 5th of this proposed amendment of the law, the concessions must be aligned with economic development plans and spatial plans. I believe that it is necessary to agree with the general urban plans and detailed urban plans because concessions can be issued in cities and other densely populated areas and certain plans of the lower order of cities or municipalities must also be taken into account when issuing, as it is possible that economic development plans which do not take account of the general urban plan or of the detailed urban plan can seriously distort public interest. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 9th Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions is proposed. 62. what we have heard today several times and which is actually the most controversial in paragraph 1 and point 2 which HSLS strongly opposes because erasing this article makes it impossible for the Croatian Parliament to break the long-term concession if it considers that the concession violates the public interest. ... The existence of non-compliance with the Law on concessions and the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, a proposal to abolish the possibility of the Croatian Parliament to adopt a position on the suspension of long-term concessions in line with public interest is unacceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, erasing this article is unjustified and the explanation that stands with the proposal to delete is unfounded and insufficient. We also believe that the publisher of the concession i.e. the public administration may be public municipalities and cities, must evaluate the sub-concessions every 4 years because otherwise, future concessionaries may not meet the conditions of granting the concession and reroute their activities towards issuing sub-concession to other entities. It is therefore necessary that public administration bodies which are also legally competent for the legal application of the concession have the possibility to evaluate sub-concessions which are also within the competence of the concentrate and must be prescribed within shorter time limits in accordance with the European Commission directives since 2014 in order to protect competition and public interest. HSLS believes that the Croatian Parliament does not need to support the elements of the colonial legal system in amendments to the concession law in an effort to harmonise the national legal system with EU directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6282	Let's move on now, now it's time for a respected colleague, Marijana Puljak, on behalf of the Party Representatives Club with a name, Smart and Glass, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6283	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is therefore a proposal to amend the Law on concessions that came after the official notice from the European Commission, so we were not fully in line with the directive and here I agree with my colleague, so that we should certainly see this original document even though we have heard that it is an offended practice but here, we can also practice and change it and it would be good to see the content and the original document... to remove any doubt that these changes are actually and may not be quite in line with that warning and are not adequately transmitted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In these amendments, therefore, we agree with some of the amendments here, the definition of an economic operator is more precisely defined, so the provisions of conflict of interest are liberalised, the possibility of protracting, the conclusion of a subconcession contract is defined in the framework of the tendering documentation, so that the future concessionaire is in advance aware of all the details, the justification study must include harmonisation and spatial plans, so even though I say some things we agree with, this is the framework law on concessions as well as the law does in the same way that, in its implementation, there is a problem. This is a roof law which therefore determines the concession procedure in various areas and then in these areas, in these activities we go to sectoral laws which then define the details. Why concessions are interesting, why are they challenging the buta in public, because they are most often associated with various affairs of corruption, with clientelism, they can also speak from their county, Split-Dalmatia County, so frequent affairs are linked in particular to concessions on maritime goods, let's remember here the former and mayor of Split-Dalmatia, who was kicked out of the race for a new mandate for the Golden War affair, let's remember the former mayor of Split who currently supports the government in the county and that support actually maintains concessions, his concession on the Marian beach of Bene, a concession that has been repeatedly extended to him although he has enormous concession debts and the fact that he has a warrant to destroy the illegal construction of the restaurant, there you even have a friend of President Milanovic who lost and a concession there on Vruja, regardless of which continues without any problems of building there. So concessions are simply the easiest thing to say, they don't have good public perception for numerous affairs, so they cause association to corruption and clientelism. I have already mentioned, especially here, the maritime well-being, the problem that exists in Croatia for years, it is a conflict between this Law on concessions as a detailed roof regulation and the Law on maritime good and seaports and the Regulation on the concession procedure for maritime goods. It is precisely because of these disagreements, in practice, that in the application of these legislations, it turns into improvisation of the case to the case, here and as I said, and numerous affairs and this disagreement is then used in that the public interest is actually subordinated to partial and some daily political interests. Therefore, both the criteria and the selection of the most favourable offers in the maritime good are very important, they are precisely defined in this law, so the question is whether the application of the regulation when it comes to the criteria for selecting the most favourable offer, should then be put out of force, so the disagreement of these laws, this roof and later sectoral laws, leads to chaos I would say in the implementation. Public interest must be a dominant criterion in selecting the most favourable offer in the concession process, especially here on the maritime good, so there is a need to strike a balance between public interest and the private sector and the resolution of many of these conflict situations. So the first step is surely to bring this roof law into line with the directive, I say, it would be good to see that original, that warning that came to us and later to all the other sectoral laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6284	Let's move on, now it's the Green-left bloc's club and respected colleague Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6285	Thank you. So I've already stated that I believe that one of the basic problems is that we might be able to assess the quality of these changes, the fact that we didn't get the basic document, which is why we're getting into any changes to the Law on concessions, which is an official notice or... a decision we haven't had a chance to see. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Bacic pointed out to me today that we could make an effort to get to that document, so he mentioned the text of the directive. The text of the directive is available, not because of the directive, but because of the way we have not been and we have received the specification in which we should further comply with the directive because I want to see this text because I believe that there are proposals for certain amendments which are not in this way likely to have been specified in the decision because I know very well how much in detail when the European Commission prescribes something or when I talk about the interpretation of the directive, it goes or does not go, because when it comes to directives, the Directives are bound by the objective and not by the wording of the text itself, so we need to comply with the objectives of the Directive and the way in which we will do so, of course, depends on us or on this Parliament. Why did you choose a way that enables, without restrictions on the conclusion of a right to be held by foreign financial institutions by financial institutions on all types of goods, so here, there are a lot of representatives from Slavonia, I think it is important to ask ourselves if financial institutions can place a right to, for example, agricultural land or, for example, maritime well-being, in whose hands will be our ports, in whose hands will be at the end of our agricultural land. Now, when we say a plea right, we're talking about a right to a right, not a right, I know it very well, but if it's been given to 99 years, whose right is it? Whose is it? Or if it's been given for 30 years. For 30 years, we can't use a certain portion of some good, agricultural land, ports, etc. I know it's about a concession on the right, not the very thing, an object or just a good one. However, when it is long-term and you have made it possible for those last amendments to the Law on concessions, long-term concessions, where we are now still cut and the possibility that these long-term concessions, for certain reasons of public interest, this Parliament can break up, is it, and concession agreements, we are actually getting that we will be able to give public goods in the concession for an extremely long time without being able to react to this and that when we estimate that it is contrary to the public interest of the Republic of Croatia, to end it. Why? Because you went wrong to coordinate because you erased the possibility that the Croatian Parliament would, therefore, abolish the concession agreement at the time when it considered that it was against the public interest, so the remaining interests were in paragraph 1. You have not added economic interest, why, for God's sake, the end of the environment, human health and defence and security, you have not added an economic interest which is a legitimate objective under European law, so there is nothing the European Commission can say about it. So you have not added economic interest and have not added that in the existence of this interest the Croatian Parliament decides. So it is not enough to remain in paragraph 1, it should remain in paragraph 2, but it must be referred to the interests referred to in paragraph 1 because, it is true, we can't just write an interest, we have to define it, there is a commission right, it can't be any interest, right? Okay, keep going. Negotiation, we had problems with the negotiation when I was a member of civil society, so when it comes to debt on something given in the concession, especially when it comes to agricultural good or when it comes to maritime good, that it must be limited in activity, that the activity must be compatible and that it must be linked. She's not that now. Therefore, these amendments further liberalise the entire system of debt where it does not really have to be prescribed or limited the way that these types of activities can be. What do we do, have on the beaches I don't know, concessions that have nothing to do with anything? Therefore, it must be in some way limited because in the previous law, in the law of 2017, therefore in the original, it was limited in a way that involved some secondary activities. Why isn't that left in these changes now, I don't know. So, you would point out that what's even more important, if you put it, I haven't written the correct number of articles, but it's changing the way in which a legal person is determined from when the concessionary is turned off and can no longer carry out his activity for 3 years. Now, that was before from the power of judgment, now it's from a certain event, from the moment of a certain event. That would actually be good. If that weren't problematic compared to the article where one of the reasons for disfellowshipping was a powerful verdict, would it? Now, if we're waiting for a final verdict, and he's been expelled from the moment of the event, until that powerful verdict comes in three years, you won't be able to determine it anymore, do you understand? Okay, but you have to specify it, I'm just saying, so make sure you specify, that in case of a court procedure, then it doesn't count from the moment of the event, because neither do I know of any procedure in such cases that lasts less than 3 years, right? That's it. That's it. That's where I'd stop. I would point out, once again, that it's really difficult to go into these dotted changes, that it's problematic that we haven't taken advantage of this moment to actually protect more public goods. The problem is, if you didn't use it now, we'll put it in the amendment, that where you're... The strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, for example, are oil pipelines, gas pipelines and strategic infrastructures for what you have not listed and strategic infrastructure for renewable energy sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the key concessions that are put into invaluable in Croatia are the concessions for renewable energy sources, here, there for germothermal sources, the guy slams on the incentives 100 million a year, the RH gets the absolutely small amount of it, so he gets the concession and still gets the incentives and all his income is from those incentives for renewable energy sources, and we take from it literally change. So, of course, we have to put it under strategic interests, when we list energy sources, I guess that's also renewable energy sources, we don't have to repeat how important this is here after talking about the Krš Padjene affair for days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6286	Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. In front of us today, there is a proposal on amendments to the Law on concessions with the final draft of the law, as has already been said here, this is a law already passed in 2017, then the EU Commission's remark goes, and then this same law was actually already in the Parliament, that is, in that building, the INA building, it seems to me that we discussed there in the 4th month. In fact, in 2020 and then we didn't have time, it was the first reading, and we didn't have time to do the second reading, and now for that reason, I understand, so now it's going into a rush procedure, or to go first and second reading united, more because of these technical reasons that we didn't have the opportunity to do so because of the election call. The concession law is, it's a lot of talk here today about individual concessions, a little here he looked around that this is roof law. This is not a law that determines any area, concession or telecommunications or for oil or for maritime good or for anything else. This is one roof general law that regulates general rules, general rules mean. And then under these general rules, all ministries, i.e., are mostly three ministries that question and give concessions on public good. It's mostly the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Agriculture. So these are ministers who regulate each area of concession by their legal acts and sublaws. However, it is not just them, so there are 23 areas in total that are specifically defined in these sectoral laws. So this is one roof law that says what the rules of the game should be for everyone, no matter whether it's a sea, whether it's some other law. So, regardless of whether it's about the exploitation of mineral raw materials, the use of water, municipal activities, concessions on marine goods, tourism, health care, etc. What is actually, I would try to focus my debate in this direction is actually how much we get money from these concessions at all, here, today we're all saying that these are our treasures, how much Croatia should make from public goods, giving concessions, etc., so to show as a society, as a country, as a nation as far as we're even successful. And in fact, it was actually my question to the secretary of state who today said that it was in 2018 a billion and 300 million kuna. So a billion and 300 million kuna in total... of all these concessions that are in use of this public good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are about 9,000 contracts in the concession register. How's... Nine thousand concession contracts are currently in a single-united register, which actually controls one place at the Ministry of Finance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of these 9,000 concessions, 4293 contracts or 43% of all concessions in Croatia are related to health activities. It means a health care activity of 43% of concessions. After that, for the mining area, it means the exploitation of mineral raw materials around 1348 contracts or about 15%. So the other ones are exploits. 1,000 concessions are in the maritime good, meaning about 11% of all concessions in Croatia. 932 concessions are port administrations, concessions for municipal activities around 500 contracts and concessions for the use of water 440 contracts. So out of these 9,000 contracts, that's actually all we're talking about today is 9,000 as arranged. But what we collect, how much money we collect because that money from concessions is divided into a state budget, one part and the other goes to units of local and regional self-government or municipalities, cities and counties, right? And there's that part now, let's see how we're concentrated from this total amount of 9,000 concession contracts of a billion and 400 million kuna or 300 million kuna, most of the revenue is concessions for the exploitation of oil and gas, and it's mostly paid by only one company and that's the INA. I don't know, if you know some other companies that use those concessions, so tell me, but here, I think that's the main one, the main one is coming from INE, so from a billion and 300 almost half a billion coming from INA. How is it further deployed? Of these billions and 400, it means 500 comes from INE, 440 comes from Telekom, means of 3 Telekom, means HT, A1 and TELE2 they pay 440 million, and that's actually close to billions of kuna 4 companies, out of billions and 300, 4 companies pay you in Croatia close to a billion kuna. So how segmented are actually all of our story actually about concessions while the concessions on the maritime good are only 120 million kuna. That may be a little problematic to me, given that we have 1,000 concessions, we get 120 million, 118 million kuna on the maritime good, that's about 100,000 kuna per concession, so 8,500 kuna per month, 100,000 kuna per year per concession. I think that's the area where we look at the marine well-being and that's arranged specifically for our own laws, and we have to ask ourselves, is it really 100 million kunas from that maritime good? 100 million kuna is nothing, actually, when in all this story. And when you break up the entire concession system that we're saying here is some kind of huge billions, etc., we see that only four companies are actually paying 90% of the total, the whole program, the whole concession program. Also, most of those concessions, what concerned me here now, was that this trend of falling revenue concessions was continued. I speak the latest data I can get on the Internet means the Ministry of Finance that informed the government it was 2018, a billion and 300 million. This is where the Secretary of State said this morning that the share of income fell to a billion is down in 2019 when we had the biggest economic growth, so there was no Covid yet, so we fell, and now we fell to 570 million kuna in 8 months, okay, maybe there are some reprogrammes there, but that's what we'll see how it ends in 2020, and if it ends at 100 million Euros, I think it'll be a shocking figure if we know that in 2008 we had, that we had a billion and 300. To show you how many these billions and 300 are, that's 0.8% of your income from the state budget. 0.8% of your income from the state budget is all your income when it's only the best, when we're doing our best in 2018 and in GDP it's 0.3%. So here we are now.../incomprehensible/... about some numbers is actually 0.3% of GDP. And that's the focus in which we should actually have the benefit of ultimately having a public community, society, all of us of these concessions. That's actually a question. As a society, what we give as a public good is nothing, for 0.3% of GDP, a statistical error, unfortunately that's the one, that's the fundamental question. Are these concessions for the development of local communities, how much they contribute to the development of local communities, how much they contribute to employment, how much they contribute to the economic development of Croatia? 0.3% are in revenue, the budget is also 0.8%, and if these revenues show up for 2020, we're going to come up with a scary data actually that, as incomes and at central budget level, they're irrelevant especially if we're talking about these numbers that at local level were actually the last of some data for 2018, that they were direct revenues or units of local administration just 100 million kuna 111 million kuna. So the development of public goods should actually be together with the development of the local community. They're investing in local budgets of 100 million kunas. Now you see that only the City of Zagreb has a budget of 7 billion kuna, etc., how many other totals, how many local communities of 14, 15 billion kuna and now you see that they have incomed 100 million kunas, in fact it shows that simply as a public good in the Republic of Croatia we do not manage, I speak globally, I have now entered no one to criticize in individual, individual cases but we say globally that very small yield to society and the community and to the whole development of these areas, because if this concession is to be done on public good, then we should not only serve for some exploitation but should serve for the development of that community. It's not just a profit that's crucial in that, in the context of some.../incomprehensible development because one part of the use of this public good and damages the environment when we're talking about someone.../incomprehensible/... The question arises if we put it against environmental damage if we were in some kind of, would we be in positive numbers. Here, so, so much I wanted to give actually one full review of, in fact, the revenue side of this concession law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6288	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Davor Dretar's turn, in front of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, even though they call us Eurosceptics here, it is not the case that this directive number 23 is actually well-intentioned towards us because let me just quote a few lines. ‘The absence of clear rules at Union level that would regulate the award of concession contracts leads to legal uncertainty and an obstacle to the free supply of services and causes distortions of the functioning of the internal market. The result is that economic operators, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are deprived of their rights within the internal market and miss important business opportunities, and public authorities do not make the best use of public finances in order to benefit the citizens of the Union from quality services at the best prices." The award procedure should be swift, fair and flexible so that all applicants have the same chance and that the same market rules apply to all. I'm pretty sure there's no dispute about it. But what we want to challenge as the first is the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, with reasons that the same procedure has passed in the first reading or in the previous assembly, and it is not clear to the legislator himself what provisions of the Public Procurement Act should apply. The domestic movement cannot and does not want to take responsibility for someone's decisions especially when it comes to such an important set of laws that have served for years as an extraordinary laboratory basis for the breeding of a deadly virus of corruption. So far, we have witnessed an ugly and corrupt defamation of the existing definition of an economic subject, it is now expanding as explained by the respected Mr. Secretary of State Zrinasic, but we know for ourselves that local powers and through their beloved party or beyond her knowledge have founded phantom companies only hours before concessions and, of course, won them. And now with this extended definition, I'm afraid no one will dig up. Here's a fresh example of a former HDZ minister who wasn't caught with his fingers in a jam but is up to the waist in a jam. He provided incorrect data on the square of the house which he saw as a miracle built by a company that was given input jobs from the mayor's position. Now, he turned to agriculture, founded a company in May, and immediately part of the 2.5 million kuna is a heavy wine envelope that he personally received during his ministerial term, and I believe for the rest of us that the same is followed by an envelope, and in it is a reference to psychiatry if we think this is normal and just. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 7th century 6 requires that all natural persons involved in the concession procedure or persons who may influence the outcome of the award process must not have direct or indirect personal interests, etc., etc. Public procurement as one of the biggest generators of corruption, from the least of the municipalities to the top of all governments so far, is something that we from the Homeland Movement are going to stick our teeth sharply and we believe that all processes in which taxpayers' money is available and, of course, Croatian soil, land, air and forests should be left completely open to the public. The national movement of course supports all changes and additions to the legislative acts of the Republic of Croatia if they have a favourable impact on the quality of life, legal equality of all and economic development. Now let me just tell you a few situations where it is clear that the concession procedure is a purely political Marriquelluk. I've been in the media for 20 years now, and I know a story from Slavonia and Baranja where a competition for a local TV concession was opened, but you won't believe as soon as the government changed and Mr. Vrkic prevailed in the city, at the same time one of the first acts was the abolition of that concession that had not yet been realized. So it's quite clear what happened. Here's an example of how to get concessions for media action in the area of radio. I spent 20 years at this job and here we have a concession for media services in the radio area that is obtained exclusively with political support and support. Let's say in Italy you come to the office, you say I want a concession that I have a radio station, they say you want a city, you want a county or you want a state, then they decide to give us a city, the man says the annual rental frequency is so much and there can be 15,000 in, say, Milan, and the market will eventually decide which of these radio stations will survive, and not of course the ruling party or their powers give a concession for media action exclusively to those who will naturally use it to caress them down the hair. The national movement is aware that sometimes as a state, we have neither the financial nor the human potential to implement a particular project. We don't have people, we don't have knowledge, we don't have the technique to build an airport. All right, we've put this in a concession, but we're in favour of full transparency and constant public contact and interested citizens on whom concession activities could have a direct impact. Likewise, the Homeland Movement advocates the exclusion of Croatian forests, waters and countries in concession to foreign economic operators. We understand that these natural resources must be used alone in the manner of a good master. The coronary crisis has shown how important it is to be able to produce enough food alone, and we are not. Croatia's fertile country has been given or sold to foreigners, the energy sector is slowly losing, sources of drinking water per number that we are among the leading in Europe will be sold for change, and when the ladies and gentlemen forget about the declaration of an exclusive economic belt. I will also jump to the amendments to Articles 66 and 67 that regulate the transfer of concession contracts and the right to publishing. According to the new transfer of the concession contract, it may also go to cases related to the acquisition of ownership of the concessionary. It also mentions restructuring, merger procedures of the existing concessionaire with the future etc., etc. Once again, there is a door to malfeasance because if someone has won a concession they can easily transfer it to a third legal or physical person, and then in a game of hide-and-seekers that is very, very well known there is no way that you can find the right owners so easily. And just a pawn right, the thing here is very simple, if you have any friends near a political altar, you'll get a concession on a beach, then you can borrow in a bank, and you can arrange and put on that beach cafes, a couple of night bars, a water park, hundreds of parasols, deck chairs and everything that's already going there. The guarantee on that loan will be the same concession contract or natural well-being. Okay. We can look for legal formulations here now, but in principle, that's the way it is. It reminds us nicely of those strange and wonderful privatisation moments of the early 1990s when the tycoons bought factories, took loans to buy them, and then guaranteed the same factory. Here we are approximately in the fact that city, county or state registers remain without hundreds of millions of kuna per year on the name of concession fees, and concession holders extensively grease party parties or, of course, private accounts in some strange banks on some strange and remote seas. Finally, the Homeland Movement will not support these amendments and additions to the Law on concessions because they do not bring anything new and do not represent any significant shift towards the transparency of the award of concessions, but only means the continuation of the stalking and luxuriant exploitation of the natural resources of Croatia. Everything will remain in its old, present-day but still enough of the ruling coalition will also push through this bill, simply a bunch of articles and items that we can discuss here for days and hours, and nothing will actually change. Therefore, the Homeland Movement has requested the return of this law on amendments and additions to the Law on concessions to a regular parliamentary procedure since the first reading, either further or in any event, the abolition of an emergency procedure if not the abolition of the proposal for a law itself. We also require urgent amendments to the Law on concessions and the Law on Public Procurement so that we finally have a clear and unequivocal legal framework that will equally satisfy the needs for responsible and adequate use of Croatian natural resources and, of course, prevent the rude wealth of individuals and parties at the expense of all Croatian citizens. So much for us, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6290	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Branko Bačić's turn to speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6291	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support amendments and additions to the concessions Act. As Mr. Secretary of State pointed out on behalf of the government, it is a roof law that defines the procedure of granting concessions in Croatia, and the law itself provides for 23 sectoral activities, areas to which this law applies, and each of these sectoral areas is defined by a special law, a lex specialis law. So this is one law which in principle defines practices in the process of concessioning public goods in the Republic of Croatia, but on the other hand clearly points out that these sectoral laws of lex specialis and cannot be contrary to this Law on concessions and, in that sense, need Mr. Secretary of State as soon as possible, and we have said that many times before, before the amendment of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, because I think there is still a few provisions there, probably a new law that will be fully in line with the Law on concessions. What was good and what was many times, I even talked about it on behalf of the club four years ago. when the basic law was passed and when we spoke in the INA a few months ago, it was necessary that the concession law implies that the concession can be called exclusively in accordance with the spatial plan, units of local or regional self-government, and that is the principle that must exist because none, and the concession is economic activity, no activity can take place in an area for which it requires a specific area past or contrary to a spatial plan. Therefore, such as an economic justification study, such as the concession documentation is important not less, if more still, not more important compliance of the concession procedure with spatial plans and, above all, units of local or regional self-government. What I would like to praise is the presentation of my colleague, Lalovac, who spoke about this law and as a financier, has made it very clear, but it is justified that in Croatia around a billion and 300 million kuna are at the level of all the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government and state budgets around millions and 300, billion and 300 million kuna, and that is true and that is about 0.8% of GDP, that is about 0.3% of our state budget. These are the data for 2018, we'll see what they'll be like in 2019. It's true that income cuts have already been given an explanation. But what he would disagree with with his colleague, Lalovec, therefore not, he sees it very pragmaticly from the point of view of former finance minister, I don't see it that way, and I think that even the Republic of Croatia, including JLS, and the unit of regional self-government, is less important whether and how much of the funds are made by paying the concession fee for the contract concession, it is more important whether that income achieves the basic task, which is to launch economic activity in the sector in the field of activity for which that concession is given. For example, it is true that in the Republic of Croatia since concessioning maritime goods, only around 118 million kuna was 2018, that is correct and that is without error. But only one dollar made by the concessionist was a major study when, when it comes to concessioning maritime goods, one dollar made by concessionary Steveador, a company that performs basic activities in the port sector, all other activities that are linked to that concessionaire make 20 dollars in that same, on this same job that I say the fundamental concessionist who pays the concession only makes one dollar. Therefore, this multiplicity which is realised by the activity for which the concession is issued is a fundamental interest of the Republic of Croatia. If we were to assess the profitability of Croatian roads based on the collected toll, we would close those roads at the same time, the total revenue in Croatia for the tolls for all the roads that are concessioned, whether or not concessioned in Croatia. But when we talk about the toll charged about 3 billion kuna, this process of building all highways in Croatia could not be paid off so quickly. However, the fact that Croatia's highways and highways in Croatia offer primarily a great tourist season, a record tourist season, is then a second view of, on that basic income of individual companies, with individual highways. So, we can't, I was going to say, we can't just look at the value, the importance of the concession in Croatia's economic life through the paid concession fee, but we also have to look at in the context as much as and how this concession carries out the activity that enables employment, enables other activities that are linked to itself and, basically, basic activity. This was about the deadlines for which the concession was given. So, this law is not a prescribed deadline, it needs a clear word immediately, but a time limit on which a concession can be given is prescribed with the Lex specialis law, with a special law. So, for example, if we're talking about maritime good, it's a 99-year term, but it doesn't mean that a concessionary will get some concession on the maritime good at 99.g. as defined above, above all by the level of investment, economic justification and the possibility of amortisation of the funds invested by an individual concessionary in the construction of the infrastructure or other facilities necessary to him in order to achieve his concession fee. I have already said several times this morning, it is incorrect, I will not say the malicious interpretation of the law under which this law, that is, these amendments and additions, is being broken down by the Croatian Parliament. That's not true. In fact, even if we had deleted the whole of Article 62, even if it had been completely deleted, Article 72 of this Law which is not touched, which is not amended, which is not completely, fully consummated by the rights of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament when it comes to Article 62. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 72 of this Act states that the concession agreement must contain provisions on the right of the grantor to terminate the concession agreement in full, but also in part, but also in part, which means that it may be changed, so in part, if the Croatian Parliament decides that it also requires public interest. It is therefore very important that, that the Law on concessions as a roof law leaves the possibility for the Croatian Parliament to be able, when it considers that this concession, through its public, is at risk for the public interest of the Republic of Croatia, to change this, and in particular that I am not saying that Article 62 leaves the possibility of the special law, hence the Law on the maritime good and seaports, if we are talking about concessioning maritime goods, can prescribe that the Croatian Parliament can intervene at certain times when it is assessed that the public interest of the Republic of Croatia is at risk. Therefore, nothing concerning the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament and the possibility that it intervenes when it considers that the public interest is threatened by this law has been reduced without saying that provisions remain that the mandatory law can or may change, change when national security, the defence of the state or what is very important, which is the environment and human health. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament can, too, define that. As for the sub-concession that we intervene with this law in the provisions of the law itself, which speaks of sub-concession, but the sub-concession is not something that differs from the basic contract and the documentation that is prescribed in the process of concessioning individual sectors and individual areas. This is not true, therefore, the concession is granted for secondary activities, the concession cannot be granted for the basic activity. And the other thing that is most important cannot be given the sub-concession without the consent of the concession provider. Therefore, a concessionaire cannot remember during the concession process that he should be doing something now, so he himself will give the concession. It's a delusion, it's misread, it's already said here, it needs to be cleared up immediately. Therefore, the sub-concessions have come particularly well in the maritime, when concessioning maritime goods, they have come well, they can only complete the performance of a particular economic activity which is originally defined by the Law on concessions or by the Law on Maritime Goods if we talk about maritime goods, but cannot be outside the provisions, outside of the decision to access the concession of maritime goods, cannot be this law beyond what is spatially defined. A sub-concession may not be contrary to the spatial plan when the basic concession cannot be contrary to the spatial plan. Therefore, this law is very well defined and determined how it can be How can a subconcession be given, but I'll do something more later when there's an individual debate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6292	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6293	Thank you very much. It is evident from this debate, that anyone who plays the trumpet at the funeral, that every law that comes essentially comes to the assembly is deposed by the Croatian Parliament under the cover of European directives. Well, I think that when we talk about concessions and the importance of concessions and how much Croatian citizens would have out of concessions, natural goods, resources so that the tribals would be much better lives on local self-governments so that we don't have 0.3% of our concessions and how much we give to use, there wouldn't be 6% of the GDP of our evicted young people, 20 billion, and 0.3 or 0.5% of this year will be from concessions. So concessions are also served without what you suggest to disenfranchise us, to disenfranchise us, but I am not surprised by the government, I am surprised by the parliamentary representatives who agree to the assembly, the Croatian Parliament which the people choose and our representatives to rule. Here is when we talk about concessions and maritime well-being, here in Split-Dalmatia County is essentially a coalition I call it the "bene" coalition partner HDZ and the party Kerumova signed an agreement because of this concession, sharing concessions as if it were their own, and we will not mention the Zlatni rat, Brac etc. As far as transport infrastructure is concerned, telecommunications is the story of everything. Teleoperators break all laws in the Republic of Croatia and have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia, 42%, and in the EU 20%, and we know that it is monopolized and we know how it works. So in Croatia there are twice as many profits, margins by teleopers, and base stations set an example wherever they want to go, so for example, in my Sinj at the bakery on the chimney which absolutely has nothing to do with any, nor is the antenna pillar, nor is it a roof, nor is it, he set up a base station without any problems below opened this casino, the Ministry of Finance gave him a decision without a problem of course because he is your sponsor and in Sinj stands the base station, to see how big he is. And so in Zagreb, so, every night nothing base station ever comes to mind, but it can't go into the EU, so it can't, what we don't prescribe. Only in the Republic of Croatia does the building permit for setting up antenna pillars for base stations, and that's where you didn't get enough when I proposed the law, and now I've put it in that procedure, that teleopers behave in the Republic of Croatia as they do in the countries where they come from. Then you say you're stopping development, I'm not stopping, I'm just asking that the teleopers behave in our country, the Republic of Croatia, to vote it out. No, the Parliament suspended it, I don't know exactly when, but in the last term, I've repeatedly asked that teleopers have to have basics, that base stations, base stations building permits, that's why they have the highest profit. First we gave them, our policy robbers allowed them to take over the teleoperators of our infrastructure, it is their interest to meet, I don't know, Mudrinić, the couple who were, across our country, or state or private, now own their infrastructure of Croatia and do not pay for the right of service. And I gave it to the law. In Slovenia, they pay a good right of service, so local self-government has good income from that side. But in us, I made the bill, you don't want it in us. He doesn't want to, but let the teleopers do whatever they want, of course, these concessions, look at Brussels for a little bit at the base stations, look at a little bit and what we're calling for, look. No one is against development, I am not against development, but it will always be my priority health effects. How is it possible that in my town, here in Zagreb, base stations put children through windows and no health effects on people have been proven? Well, from that point on, they do whatever they want. They destroy our health and collect money from our pockets and we have the worst Internet in the EU, I'm only talking about in this work, what I'm talking about and, of course, this is a preparation for what's going on in the other world in another way, and for the concession, for 5G, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6294	Replica, ma'am. I'm after Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6295	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, for the hundredth time today, you represent the incorrect fact that all of us who are for these amendments and the additions to the law, that we are essentially in favour of the Croatian Parliament being dissipated. The accuracy and in these amendments and additions shall be deleted from the provision which says that the contract will be amended if the interest of the Republic of Croatia is required in the Croatian Parliament, however, it does not stand anywhere in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and remains a provision that the concession contract will be amended when the Croatian Parliament finds that national security and defence of the state, the environment or human health are at risk. So the Croatian Parliament can still change the contract if the interests of the Republic of Croatia and our citizens are specifically mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6296	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6297	Thank you very much. Imported colleagues, Art. The 62nd paragraph 2 is deleted if the request for the interest of the Republic is established in the Croatian Parliament, so that part is deleted, meaning that this law is disenfranchising us, not only have we been banned from speaking, it is less important, all MPs and we have had that opportunity, we all know that, but are now dissuading us. So what do the citizens pay us? Let them introduce a dictatorship like King Alexander was and let them make a decision, which is why citizens pay us, and that's a fact and you know how important concessions are, you know how much profits are on concessions, you know how much public good and local self-government is caused by marine goods, from this work you come and so we can about every good in the Republic. I would never agree to this, I was not chosen by the people to rule the largest home in the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, if you agree to it, then you are killing democracy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6298	Thank you very much. No more replicas. Mr. Darko Klaric is on his way now. ... Classic, sorry, sorry. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] He's gone, he's losing his right, and now it's Anka Dark Taritash's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6299	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. Here is the amendment and the addition of the Law on concessions, and I must say that in the previous session of the Parliament, this law was already in the first reading so that it was already discussed without any major changes, even I don't think anything has changed, but the same law has come and is now under discussion. It is no wonder that concessions always cause a particular debate and that we recognize these concessions, with some sensitive situations, and here we are particularly sensitive to the maritime good. However, this roof law on concessions which is then applied and, of course, in some other laws that define this in more detail than the problem being deleted. The reason why the amendment and addition of the Law on concessions in the first place was an official reminder that Croatia received for the reason that, in its legislation, the EU directive is not in its opinion, in the right way, but when we are discussing concessions, we must also discuss it the following way. Those concessions that are particularly important to you are concessions related to the exploitation of mine goods, ore treasure. They are, of course, even more detailed in the specific law and give specific frameworks and ways here. When it comes to maritime good, maritime well-being causes special attention for the simple reason that we are extremely sensitive to maritime well-being, extremely sensitive in the way they are used, an extremely sensitive way in which we have and damage to the maritime goods that are permanent, we have permanent devastations and then we're actually just doing the damage recovery. I don't need to remind you of a series of soaking seas that have been, a series of seas that we have now. A series of harbors that were made where they could not even determine which inspection had to be followed and must continue to operate. Likewise, there's the theme that, at some point, we have to decide what you really want. On the one hand, really, there are some values that you have to protect because once you devastate that value, that value no longer exists. But we also need to think about it, the conditions under which someone will invest. When a person decides to invest, he must have a certain script and must know all the rules of the game. It's the worst thing you ever do when you change the rules of the game on his way. We are very inclined to change our legislation so that when someone entered some kind of project or some kind of investment, he entered certain laws, and then we change his laws and then he ends it by some other laws. When it comes to maritime good, that's where I've been remembering for the last 12 years, it's tried the law. The laws even went into the first reading, even went and, some came to the second reading, but never came to this Assembly. We have a large area under maritime well-being absolutely illegal in use. A series of ports, a series of harbors, a series, in the extreme line of those simplest things, this year was not a picture because we simply had something significantly less tourists than usual, but I can remind you of when someone, concreted a part of the pier, so then, they put his tourists who had put towels in his house, and then someone came and threw those towels away, they were images that we had the chance to see. Nor did that concrete mole have approval, nor did it have a concession for that mogul that was ingested. So, it's a big problem for you and of course, and it's always read on the maritime good, and it's the former or current mayors and mayors who are with, from these Adriatic counties well know what the problem is and this problem isn't since yesterday. Of course, when this law is that we're even discussing it because it's something that's holding us back. In this law, one provision is deleted among other things, which is that the Republic, or the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, where the interest of the Republic of Croatia may decide on a concession. I asked the board if that provision I know has been in the law since 2012, if it was before, I'm not sure. But since 2012, I know for sure that it is and then I asked the promoter if it was ever consumed. It's never been consumed. Well, when it's never been consumed, it's time to erase it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6300	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Arssen Bauk who asked to speak with the mask from the scene. Not for reasons, we let him do it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6301	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about concessions, the one that has a concession on air conditioning will lose a lot because he's spent so much energy already that we freeze there. So, that's for introduction. As far as this law is concerned, let's remind ourselves of the definition of concession. The concession is the right to use national goods to carry out economic activities and the concession is the right to be sold. So the first definition of national good is clear that it is a well-known sensitive, interesting resource that is state. And where, most often, either a state-owned company or a private company buys the right to pursue economic activity on this national good. So basically, when we talk about this, we talk about the most valuable wealth of the Republic of Croatia, and that's why this law is always public. In the southern part of Croatia, it is primarily the coast, i.e. the maritime well-being and some of the procedures that were conducted, and the most famous example of the Zlatni rat beach, which cost the functions of a former HDZ mayor, where de facto party, did not change it, but did not run for something that happened a month or two before the local elections, shows that the public's interest in this area is justified, large. And it's a good thing there's a certain kind of skepticism and a certain amount of caution in passing laws like this. What is not good, so what I think was the problem in that case, is that something that is essentially a business decision, which is who will win the concession, is being taken by parliament, or by a representative body, and the representative body votes for or against something, not by the basis of the paragraph of the contract, but by the basis of the political decision, so the parliaments vote. And then it can happen that the councilman's free will doesn't confirm something that, in normal administrative procedure or business relationship, should be confirmed because it only goes by, somehow, by automation, so by law enforcement. That, I mean, is not good. On the one hand, it is good that the representatives of the people have an impact on making some decisions concerning the availability of the richest resources, but not as a administrative decision. Not at the end. But in the fact that, therefore, we want to give it, we want to give it to the national good for the purpose of carrying out economic activity and the conditions are these, you, you, and you, and after that the administrative body should decide, not Parliament. The Law on Local Self-Government states that a councilman cannot be called to account for the vote expressed, anything which.../incomprehensible/... expressed opinion or position in the representative body, and, on the other hand, if a procedure has been brought to an end and based on the law, then it should end it by no political decision but by an administrative act and after that, one who is not satisfied to go to the administrative court. And how can the administrative court be opposed to the decision of a democratic representative body or parliament? It's, it's illogical, so it's incompatible. A political decision cannot be disputed in court, it may be in the constitutional court, but not in the administrative court. Therefore, the decision to grant a concession taken by the representative body is a political decision and all decisions taken by the representative bodies are political decisions. These are the elected parliaments where party presidents are sitting. And that's why this law from the point of view of at least maritime good is even problematic because it depends too much on political will as it was, so in this case that I mentioned at the beginning, at the beginning. Even worse, therefore, it may occur that some of the members of the representative body chosen by the people are in conflict of interest, although under the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests they are not officials and may happen to be just that voice crucial because the majority of the representative bodies are on one, and this one cannot be excluded because there is no one to replace, the executive authority has someone replaced, and the councilman cannot. That's why I think it would be good for the part where the representative bodies bring it in to prescribe it by special law. and give power to the administrative authorities [[/Intruder: Thank you, beautiful, weather.]] at the end, and the representative at the beginning. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6302	Thank you. Mr. Boric asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6303	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bauk and your discussion can be agreed on in the section where you interpreted the authority of the representative body, but for example we will show that it may be wrong. Why? Here's an example, Crikvenica concessioning the beach. The decision of the county assembly, here is my colleague Fabianic, the president of the assembly, so everything implemented by law, the commission appointed by or the mayor or the body of the county, received offers, offers were processed, came to the assembly, the assembly made a decision, the concession was given to one private firm, then it was no longer the one who was previously in the concession of that beach and fell to the second degree, let's say in the ministry because they were errors in the process of concessioning i.e. The work of a commission that has nothing to do with representative, let's say bodies. So it can happen because it is not an easy procedure to do just that and all of these provisions of the law, and especially the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports still have some different specifics than this roof law gives as a framework, and therefore there is a problem in the concessioning of beaches or any other part of the maritime goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6304	Time, here's the answer, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6305	Thank you. By my understanding, the representative body could vote for or against, but it could not participate in the procedure before, so in all administrative steps. Well, that's exactly what I was saying, so it's a classic administrative procedure where there's no room for a representative body for a political body. The political body should at the beginning say we will give this national good in the concession under these and these conditions and the rest is done by the administrative body and that would be normal. Sometimes it could do headships that are still an excellent body, so it has this part. However, since there is no headship, then the problem is that only one man does so, so executive authority, mayor or mayor is based on the commission's decision, for example. But what you said just confirms my theory that there is no need or room for political bodies because it is most often about the most valuable good political bickering around, in the last step, and should be in the first step Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6306	- Mrs. Crescent. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bauk, you have been troubled by the decision on concessions by the representative body and you believe that this should be completed by administrative procedure. I do not agree with you because the way you explain it may be questioned by the decision of the representative body and by all decisions on public procurement above a certain value prescribed by the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, as well as by a number of other decisions which cannot be made by the executive authority precisely because that financial minimum is set above who, the value of the job decided above which the representative body must decide. I think that, in that way, we should look at the overall competences of the representative body and the executive authorities in the decision-making process, not just about decision-making in concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6308	Mr. Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6309	This is a representative body. When was the last time we decided on a supply? ... The representative body is both this and that. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, a few billion-dollar plane will be decided by the government, the board will give some opinion and decide the government, the government has the confidence of the parliament, that there would be no confidence in the parliament, and the local self-government has no trust in the executive government because it is elected directly. I do not have a problem with deciding the representative body to make something in the concession, but it is at the beginning, it is a political decision, we will give in the concession it and under these and these conditions and it is the responsibility of the administrative body to carry out the procedure and it can be reported by the representative body for transparency. But a decision which is a court order cannot be a political decision of elected councilmen, party leaderships, etc., so it serves the executive power, that's the definition, so it's the executive business of executive power. And, and the good thing is only in this part of transparency because yet then they all get to know each other. The government, the opposition, and then we can argue. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6310	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6311	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. So this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on concessions, sorry, is not the first time in this assembly exactly in this form, but has passed the first reading, but in the previous meeting of HS. It does not surprise me when my colleagues and colleagues who were in this assembly for the first time or not were critical of it were in the previous meeting. However, when colleagues who have already discussed this law do so, it is a little unusual, especially if we look at such changes and the additions of the concession law being voted by 114 MPs, all 10 colleagues were against it at the time. This law, as we have heard, aligns the existing law with the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council and sets out in more detail from the definition to the provisions relating to the conflict of interest of persons involved in the concession procedure and anyone who may influence the course of the procedure, further prohibits the granting of concessions in the field of defence and security and any other, I may say less interesting conditions. This is a roof law and it regulates no less than 23 different areas, from the exploitation of mineral raw materials through use of water, municipal activities, maritime goods, tourism, health care and extremely valuable resources of the Republic of Croatia which are defined in detail by other sectoral laws. A colleague, Boric and his colleague, Bauk, spoke about the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, so I would beg and appeal to the Ministry of Finance at the beginning to give certain instructions and recommendations to all concessionors that those concessionaries who were unable to work or work on a reduced volume to write off or part or forgive all the amount of concession fee because they are at least talking about the amounts to which they should pay, but we know that the tourist season was not the same as it was in earlier years, so I believe that those who did business in the area of maritime goods cannot pay the amount they had previously paid and for whom they were in charge. I would point out once again because many colleagues are manipulating, with HS losing its strength, the concession contract will be able to change when HS finds that national security and defence of the state, the environment or human health are at risk. I don't think we should talk about any more interests or generally write the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and then not know or bid what's greater or smaller. There is also a clearer definition of the existence of opportunities under the terms of more liberal agreements, rather than as legally regulated conditions. Similarly, the possibility of conclusion of a sub-concession contract and sub-concession contract provides for an already justified study of the award of concessions to competition documents and other documentation that precedes the award of concessions, which I think is extremely important especially when it comes to concessions on maritime goods. Because here's the example. When it comes to granting concessions for the marina, then we have a sea and land area and in the land part of the marina we also have different service services, then commercial facilities, catering facilities and sure that one who wants to work and provide boating and boating services that does not have to provide these other services, but it is good to immediately be in the contract or the possibility of making the deal. Furthermore, the possibility of transferring a concession contract to a third party has been prescribed, again with the written consent to grant a concession which has already been defined by the Maritime Good Act, so it has already been impossible to give in the sub-concession of a concession for which the concessioner did not give prior consent. The request of financial institutions may refer exclusively to financial instruments of supply for the purpose of implementing a concession contract, and not on any other basis, which means that you cannot get a loan to invest in a business space that is not in a maritime good or I do not know about obtaining a licence if you wish to place a claim on maritime well-being. This is a more transparent law, and I think we should support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6312	Thank you very much. Stay here, Mr. Boric has asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6313	Thank you very much. My colleague Juričev, I will return to this story initiated by my colleague, Bauk, and indeed there is illogicality because they show practice and examples means by the time the regional... let's say the County Assembly raises its hand that the concession was fine and falls to the second degree in the ministry, the question of the power to make such a decision is raised. We think that what he said is okay, so the moment when the County Assembly, when we talk about maritime good, brings a concession plan to the maritime good for 2021 let's say that this is where it should end, let's say the role of this parliament, everything else is the administrative procedure in which then the commission, etc. It made a decision. However, we are coming to a conflict and what my colleague Bulj finally and at the beginning has repeatedly insisted that we, for example, break down the HS on this framework law, and in fact we cannot exactly determine the role of everyone in this process of concessioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6314	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6315	Thank you very much. I agree with you and my colleague, Bauk, about the concession of maritime goods, but as you mentioned the plans, and my time has expired, I would also like to point out because these changes and additions say that a special accent should be placed on the spatial plans or plans of the lower order, so before adopting a study of eligibility for concessions should be seen whether this is already included in the spatial urbanist or lower order plan of the municipality or the city in which a certain procedure will be concerted either maritime good or something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6316	Thank you. Mrs. Peovic has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6317	This is how my question in your debate you said that under this law there is a possibility and every opportunity for Croatia to protect its interest and you stated it is an environmental interest, an interest in national security, etc. It is quite clear that such amendments to the law cannot protect the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia, that it can only be limited to ecological causes now, although the legislator did not use this option in the current version of the law, we still get a reminder that we have not seen, so we can only calculate that the Parliament is in this position to make the arbitration decision. So in this case, we have no ability to react to the economic adverse conditions and influences and that the Parliament reacts to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6318	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6319	Thank you very much, colleague Peovic. So the Croatian Parliament, when it sees that national security, defence of the state, environment or human health is compromised, can change the contract. In other cases, however, the concessionaire, the concessionor, will certainly do so. When it comes to such concessions, it will certainly be done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6320	And at the end of the day, Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6321	Dear MPs, here, I would only like to trouble you because the opposition appears that the Parliament has no authority, that it cannot influence, and you spoke in your performance of the Parliament's role and that it will amend the law in the event of a national threat or security. So give us one more time what matters to the Parliament, so we know that Parliament is a body that will make decisions that are very important for the concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6322	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6323	Thank you very much, fellow Simičević, for giving me an opportunity to know which time to repeat, and it is good to repeat, given how many times it has been spoken, I would say, untruely, the article has been deleted so far, i.e. the item in which the contract says will change if the request of the Republic of Croatia's interest is found in HS, and nowhere is the interest defined. Now we have an exact definition when HS does that, which means when national security, defence of the state, environment or human health is compromised, in all other cases, I'm sure the government of the Republic of Croatia will do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6324	Thank you very much. No more replicas. Now it's Mr. Fabianic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6325	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable House, has no serious objections to the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions since its adoption improves that legislation which is governed by the general rules of concessions. However, this bill raises questions as to whether the new general legislative framework for concessions, which was established in 2009, has truly fulfilled its purpose to this day in all the areas it relates to. It's primarily a question of maritime well-being and seaports, which is enough of ours, our colleague already talked about. In 2008, then, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to the proposal of the Law on concessions in the light of the bill, it stated the following. Specific sectoral laws and sublegal acts will be brought into line with the new EU Law on concessions and acquis. The specific laws of lex specialis will be possible in accordance with this law to settle all questions under the power of the application of this law. The question of the content of the concession, i.e. the question of what can be given in a concession, which public works and public services can go to a concession and another question, who decides to award a concession at all and who assigns it? Responsibilities for concession policy in the area of application of this specific law, when it is estimated that special regulations are needed in that proposal in relation to the concession law. Legal protection is determined through the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, for all types of concessions. The full functionality and coverage of the transparent and efficient system of awarding concessions to the Republic of Croatia are hereby achieved by a certain form of legal protection. Defined legal protection and this law will apply to specific laws and regulations, thus fully achieving the objectives that will improve the concession system in the Republic of Croatia. So that was said, that was voted, that was said in 2008, 2009. Today, in 2020, the purpose of the roof law is to combine the concession procedure and to ensure uniform legal protection through an independent body related to procurement procedures. In the area of maritime goods and seaports, until then, since 2008 and 2009 respectively, it has never been done. In the meantime, two more Laws on concessions and 2012 and 2017 were adopted. In 2013, the Government of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion at the 79th session that... The central authorities of the state administration, including the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, are to approach the draft law amending and supplementing the law governing concessions as lex specialis, as provided for in previous law, in order to comply with the Law on concessions, National No. 143/12 and to be instructed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt them by the end of the 3rd quarter of 2013 never happened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the area of maritime goods and seaports which are a matter of vital importance for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia and one of the most important economic branches, tourism, there is still a comprehensive chaos and in the application of concessions because they are being awarded and implemented under the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports of 2004 which is significantly different from the new framework of concessions established by the Law on concessions. Something about it was said by my predecessors, regardless of the side of the assembly. The legal disorder that is caused by illegality creates difficulties with the concession giver, and in the case of concession-seeking economic operators, a comprehensive legal uncertainty which, unfortunately, is often caused by the absence of developmental investment. Also, the lack of clear rules in the award of concessions allows for a marked arbitration of the ministry here, specifically the Ministry of the Sea, when resolving concession requirements, so it is not rare that, on the same factual and legal basis, the ministry must accept concessionaires' demands, calling on the Law on Maritime Goodness and others to refuse by calling the Law on concessions and so on the city beach in Crikvenica whose appeal, behold, miracles solved within three days in the Ministry of the Sea, and the second in the same ministry lies for a year and a half. [[Intruder Radin: Time, Mr. Fabianic.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6326	Thank you, too. Stay, stay here. Mr. Boric asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6327	Thank you very much. My colleague Fabianic, I had not agreed that there is a mess and chaos but there is uncertainty and then what happened to us in this case also means that what we are talking about today is Parliament. The assembly in your case simply does not have the power given by, say, this law and when the process or event occurs, it is simply inevitable and here we come to say that by raising hands in your parliament, the concession has been approved but it has fallen on the procedural act in the sense that the body in front of you has not respected certain provisions of the public tender itself which it has called and carried out the procedure. And then you can't say anything to that ministry, regardless of the deadlines when decisions are made, but let's just say in a bad way, a relationship that was held by a concessionary until then and that some other parameters that were respected by the assembly were, say, making decisions and commission without respecting the interest of the local community, and that's the question. what to do in such a situation. [[Intruder Radin: Time, Mr. Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6328	Time, time Mr. Fabianic, you have the right to respond. [[Intruder Boric: So, like this, well, okay, thank you.]] [[Fabianić: Without further ado, namely.../]] Please. [[Intruder Fabianic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6329	In fact, I think the debate about this is very high-quality. Namely, the County Assembly or the City Council when it announces that the political decision is to give a decision on the intention to grant a concession, it is a political decision that determines whether a beach will be open, closed, etc. At the second stage when she awarded concessions, that's what my colleague Bauk said, it's an administrative procedure. Therefore, the moment the County Assembly has the most favourable bidder to assess a particular working body, it de facto must accept it, otherwise it violates the rules of the Republic of Croatia. And that's the fact. And now, in an explanation related to the annulment of the concession in particular in Crikvenica, here at the end, that argument is public, so everyone can see how hollow they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6330	Thank you, too. It is now up to the Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Miroslav Škoro, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6331	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are a legislative body and are likely to be studioy in collaboration with experts thinking and passing laws in the interest of this beautiful country and of our people and of all inhabitants. It's amazing how we started from the very beginning from a low start to a sprint and we're in a hurry and we're trying to talk very superficially here about certain things that are crucial, which are strategic. We've already had a debate about the Foreign Law in this assembly. It's one of the key laws that defines, in a demographic sense, the future of our country. We live at the time of the COVID crisis crown, we are a country that is exposed to migrant pressures and we can very easily, very quickly become a hot spot as it is said, we are a country that has not declared its economic belt, we do not have the strength or political will and here, but now by ruling us are trying to convince us that it is very important to adopt the concession law as an emergency procedure. We already have the public working, a law that regulates the award of concessions. But we are going to change and supplement, we are going to change it, why, because it is asking us to do so by the European Commission. Does this mean that the existing law is wrong? If it's no good, then we can change it ourselves. But if it's okay, why would they change it? On the other hand, we are witnessing the fact that then the law of the existing example, we do not currently know who owns tens of thousands of acres of fertile land because in the Agrokor affair, a fund has come into the possession of the Agrokor shares and is now in possession of that land. And we are now going according to the European Commission to adopt amendments and amendments to the laws under which we as a Parliament will lose a part of sovereignty and you cannot tell me that we will not, it is the work in which the Croatian Parliament can react when there is an injury to the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia. Not only is it important that we can protect our countries, our own waters, our forests when it comes to national sovereignty, when it comes to human health, when it comes to environmentalism. The economy is what is the foundation of the whole story with us. So who are we going to please when it comes to this urgent adoption of amendments and the addition of the law in a single reading? Whom do we favor, and why do we allow that, after new changes to the temporary association, branches will be able to dispose of our land? They'll be able to hold concessions and they'll be able to pass it on to the third. They will be able to pass on to the third and that it was not important to have this third kind of activity in relation to the one whose concessionary committed himself to taking that concession. So, plus that, we're talking about all of this together and some possibility that the claim right to that concession is being used and that right to the right, I agree. However, it brings us back to one legal uncertainty and we don't know, let's say, if the situation were to happen now, that we disagree with something, when it comes to concessions over what the current owner of Agrokor has, that in some legal dispute we won't get into a situation that we have a long time to deal with what is actually the Croatian state's chronic value. Well, I just want to say in the end that I would like to know, however, why the EU Commission is asking us to bring about these amendments and amendments by an urgent procedure and to give up some sovereignty. Corruption is certainly one of the most important reasons, Croatia is in the top 5 of the corrupt countries in Europe, but definitely, it seems to me that the desire for EU citizens to be able to make it easier, their economic operators to come into possession of valuable forests, waters and countries in this Croatian country. Thank you. We have a replica, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6332	... Here. [[Specially enabled.]] First, the first replica has Mr. Charic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6333	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Skoro. Just one, one clarification regarding the question of concession or ownership... I'll talk to you later? We hear it. Land ownership, which today is run by Forte Nova, and until before that company Agrokor. So the land is owned by the Republic of Croatia, not through that special law, which, which took over the property of Agrokor, today forte nova, is not touched by land. So the land remains owned by the Republic of Croatia and today, only those contracts previously signed with Agrokora are still managed by Forte Nova land, so no land has been taken, ownership remains the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6334	Thank you very much. And now the gentleman, oh, excuse me, Mr. Skoro, is the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6335	Thank you very much. At one point I wanted to wave at those The tiles that hurt the Rules of Procedure, but thank you, you gave me an answer, thank you. [[/Intruder: What?]] As for this, dear Mr. Sharic, therefore, you and I speak the same. I didn't think or know at any point, nor did I know at all the right to lose ownership of that land. One is property, but the other is management. So, what I'm afraid of is not that we're going to lose ownership of what once won the Agrokor Corporation concession, and now there's this Forta Nova, but I'm afraid the fact that in legal breakdowns, and that can happen, we can simply execute and never, I dare say, be able to manage this property in quality again, which is now being used by this Forta Nova. That's my fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6336	And Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6337	... Parliament, Your Honor. [[Specially enabled.]] I would just like to point out that when giving some of our natural resources to the concession, it is necessary to make sure that these treasures remain real in use afterwards. In fact, you mentioned agricultural land earlier, let us not forget that after the concession is obtained, we also receive support for the same land. However, the aid is not related to the results achieved on that land, so there is no amount of wheat support or any other product, but it is about obtaining support under a hectare rented. So I have to make sure that the law regulates it along with the sublegal acts and acts that are related to a particular concession, so that later on, you really will have that wealth, our, the natural wealth that we have given in the concession really remains in use.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6338	Thank you very much, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6339	Thank you very much. Thank you for this replica precisely because I have tried to point out the fact that some colleagues have already pointed out that both economic business and management, as it is written in every and even banal contract, business with the attention of a good master, is crucial and that we must leave HS with the possibility that, at some point, it may be the subject of discussion in this House and that it may be the basis to abolish someone's right to concession. Because what you're saying can happen if someone takes something in a concession, just because they get incentives, and then it doesn't do enough to take advantage of it the way it can be exploited, and it wouldn't be the first time, and I've witnessed some of the situations reading in the media how people took big pieces of land, say in Lica, and then they'd get seedlings of plums, then they'd take incentives, and they didn't do anything for that end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6340	Time. Thank you, too. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Anamari Blažević's turn, please. She's gone, she's lost... she's here, and here she is, well, here you go. We didn't see you back there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6341	Here, dear Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions with the final draft law, based on a European directive, which is in line with the EU Parliament and Council Directive. I'm not going into special laws that determine concessions, I'm going to give my brief review of this proposal. From the proposal, we can determine how this harmonisation brings about an improved law that has preserved the concession system in the Republic of Croatia, and here I primarily think about giving concessions in the area of defence. As lex generalis well regulates concessions and I hope the other laws of that domain will follow. The concession system should be effective, stable, clear, but also transparent as I think it allows. The concession is actually, I'm going to say, in a way, a privilege to use our national good, to carry out economic activity, and it must improve public interest. For this reason, I think it is extremely important to monitor the regularity of the implementation of the Treaty on concessions in order to ensure the most effective use of public funds. Oversight should be done not only over the performance of the obligations under the contract but it is also more important in that part of the activity without concession, and in order to prevent the emergence of the gray economy, and we see from all debates that we all want to prevent in fact. The procedure laid down before the contract itself requires analysis, eligibility and concession studies, which enables a balanced system between concession fees and the value of the concession subject matter. In addition, by defining what concessionaires' income is or is achieved, the income of the sub-concessionaires is accumulated in the revenue of the concessionaires, and the final result is the increase in the revenues of the state budget, but also the important revenue of the units of local and regional self-government, as it is derived from the concessions, as we have heard, is shared between these budgets, and in accordance with certain ratios and certain types of concessions. No matter how little or too much I think, in some cases, I think that every increase in the income of the state, but also local administrations and self-government certainly deserves attention. I think we will also meet new concession models in the future, and in order to increase economic activities that today may have been too few speeches. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that the proposed amendments and additions will certainly improve our legal framework of concession and I think that this law should be supported for this reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6342	Thank you. Replica? There's no replica. Mr. Davor Dretar will speak finally in front of the Department of Homeland Movement, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to start by saying that I am delighted with your mask, I must commend you because the same kind of mask have elementary school kids in Krapina-Zagorje County, equal size, so it's clear to everyone that something pretty fun happened there, but we hope that Mr. Mayor will do it if he doesn't have too much work to do in the elections within his party, very quickly solve it. As I mention my Zagorje and it is rich and geothermal springs, it is rich in spas, wells of drinking water, it is rich in forests. The Varazdin and Međimurski end, I'm talking about my electoral unit, they're rich in gravel, so they're susceptible to, they're very suitable for giving various concessions to these digs and so on, but, of course, there's not a very good situation there either. At the beginning I want to say the Homeland Movement is in agreement with the fact that we should have a good and quality legal framework, but we will constantly have remarks on it because it is women and husbands HS and our business and our obligation. We understand some things that may seem ridiculous to you, we know when we talk about the terms of the concession that applicants have in their business plans. Of course, when someone builds a hotel on a maritime good that in the hotel industry there is an extremely long return of funds, we have clear concessions on the duration of 10 or 20 years. Is this a clear necessity in that economic branch, but a 99-year deadline? They're really extremely long and they're really limiting our country's sovereignty. Here we have another object, and it's one pile of garbage at the entrance to Varazdin, and it's also about awarding a concession for waste management that, we know for a fact that it's not finished, or it's not finished, and that huge pile of garbage it's already growing from, so I can tell you free to say two or three feet of tall trees, it still can't move from there, and the question is when it's going to be. We mentioned here and teleopers and their extremely high profit rates in Croatia. So perhaps we can ask ourselves who calculated the concession fee for telecommunications activity, so perhaps that person should come here to HS and explain to us this calculation by which teleopers make the most profitable rates of all the EU countries at which they operate. Another very important thing, my ladies and gentlemen, is freedom of the media. The media can have a strong, strong impact on the control or control of the implementation of concession contracts, but only in one case, when there are and when they become like free media. Control of the media market or award of concessions for media action is another extremely strong way of political pressure on media freedom. It's clear to all of us that they can only get good guys, good girls, who listen and who don't mutate water. If you release or significantly liberalize the concession process for media services, you will leave it to market competition to decide who will survive because of course the market will say who works quality and will continue to live. Let me also set an example here of all the software stations of the Croatian Radio that all together have an almost negligible percentage of listening in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and here they survive and, of course, thanks to the subscription that is another mode of pressure. Here we are today, and we signed a petition for a grandmother who has an extremely low pension, and her subscription takes away 10% of that poor pension. Generally and finally, the Homeland Movement will not support these amendments to the law, not because we are, in order to say domestically, constantly something against it. We're not against each other. We want to look into our eyes one more time and all those who work for concessions and, of course, that's something that's blurry and that's what's going on. We ask that through HS and our laws of fair and honest laws, and we act on people who grant concessions because we know that they are muddled, we know that it is not right most often. I'm not saying that there is a criminal organization's intention to award a concession in every order and that everything is bad, there are great things and of course, such laws must exist and must be because they are the basis for our better future and better future of our children and those whom we will leave this hopefully quite nicely and honestly arranged republic, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6344	Also final on behalf of the Independent Lists Bridge, Mr. Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6345	Thank you very much. Here I expected that at the end or before the end, and I expect, here we see that it will end up on behalf of the promoter, the secretary of state, withdrawing this proposal because this proposal is pointless, colleagues and colleagues, we must not and we do not have the right and we do not have the mandate to rule this House and because of the future, we are here temporarily, we are here in office, in this term, for as long as it lasts, I do not know whether there are still most or part of it in prison but I know that we do not have the right to rule the Parliament. We have no right to do that. We don't have the right to discuss important issues with ourselves. Art. The 62nd point 2 is deleted where the Croatian Parliament disintegrates itself. We have no right to do that. We can do it, but then there's no point in us being here anymore. About concessions when we talk, teleoperators are mentioned, I said in telecommunications, teleopers have the highest profit in Europe, not only in the EU, in the Republic, the highest margin, 42% in the EU is 20%, all to the detriment of local communities and our citizens. From the concessions we'll have about 0.5% this year, instead of having 30% of GDP, we have 0.5%. That's why we have 6% of the GDP of our evicted Croats. Because our natural resources are not being used properly and concessions are not being given in a way that should be given. In my county are coalitions, coalitions in the power of G. Kerume, HGS and HDZ are because of Ben, their coalition is Bene, it's a beach in Split, it's everybody knows. Well, it's known why Ževrna left, so it's all known, but how many there are, 0.3% this year, 4 will be from concessions, maritime goods, from telecommunications, first they robbed our telecommunications, so Mudrinic became boss, boss. Well, that's what our people paid, you older, my dad, paid to go over his field cable, and now they own foreign teleopers of that, infrastructure. Oh, look, please. And now, some kind of EU directive, some clerk has to make us disenfranchise ourselves. So what's the Parliament for? What's the election for? And you, most of the colleagues, justify it. So how can you come before the voters? So look what your teleoperators are doing in your cities, here I see the Mayor of Varazdin, I see here, so I gave the law, here and now they are in the procedure, that teleopers behave in Croatia as in their countries where they come from, that they must have a building permit to set up base stations. But this is preparation. This is a law of preparation. It's not against technology, nor am I a misdemeanor of what the predecessor said, but we all have cell phones, but this is preparation, this concession isn't just about water, all of our resources that we have, the maritime goods, this is about preparation because it's going to take a lot more base stations and to set up a 5G network, we need to say it openly, I'm going to say it now and you know it, the 5G network concession until the health effects are yet known. So I ask the question, I'm for development technology. Why is there a moratorium in Brussels to set up a 5G network? In Geneva? In other numerous cities, Bavaria. Why? Because, of course, the most important thing is to produce health effects. We've been wearing cranberries, masks, for what? For the sake of health and for the teleoperate and their basic electromagnetic radiation, health effects are not important. Why is it not important to have health effects? Why don't we, as a Croatian Parliament, see the effects of electromagnetic radiation on our people's health and not put on kindergartens, in the centers of cities, in hospitals, where their base stations fall but can't do it in countries where they come from. That's why in Croatia T-COM, Deutsche Telekom earns 42% of the margin and in Europe where they operate 20%, a museum of money from our citizens' pockets, through our infrastructure, and that's why we have 6% of GDP because we've driven our young outsides, 20 billion kunas. So let's not let it get to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6346	In front of the Green-Left Block Representatives' Club, Mrs. President-in-Office will first speak. And then Mrs. Benchcock. Peovic. It would be better if you came closer, ma'am. Peovic because there's little time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6347	Thank you, Vice President. So I'm going to use this part of the closing word to present concrete amendments to this proposal to amend and supplement the concession law. I note once again that we really believe that the law could, or the bill on amendments and amendments to the law, be referred to as a regular procedure for the reason that we could use this moment to overall improve the Law on concessions, to protect public goods but also to ensure that local communities that give their resources to concessionaries give it, and only then, if they do have both social and economic benefits. He also failed to define the possibility of giving priority, priority concessions to those social groups that are particularly important to us. I was then an activist, an activist who suggested that those concessions given to social enterprises be defined as priority concessions. In this way we were able to favour the social enterprise means that they have a particular social benefit, so those who deal with social entrepreneurship where we could give these priority concessions to cooperatives, for example, so let's say our young fishermen who have a cooperative on the islands could get priority, and we also asked for this for other types of social enterprises, unfortunately it was not recognised, and the whole concession law was actually done at the end so that it suits the interests of large, large capital and this is the case with these changes and additions. However, what we are giving as amendments is, firstly, we are asking for the following words to be added in Article 8, so behind the words “building the management of the transport system of gas” where basic strategic infrastructure is listed, along with the infrastructure for the production of electricity from fossil fuels and the construction and management of plants for the production of electricity from renewable sources. It's clear why it's important I've already explained it before. This is also in line with the European Green Plan and the plan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to increase the share of renewable energy sources in order to achieve greater energy independence of the Republic of Croatia, but also to reduce the negative impacts of fossil fuels on climate change. Furthermore, we ask that, in the reasons for amending the concession contract, the following is added if the conditions set out in Article 66(2) are not met. In fact, we ask that Article 66(2) suggests that the transfer of the concession contract should not reduce the quality and distort the continuity of the implementation of the concession contract, but what happens if that condition is not met, the tail cat. So we ask that this condition, the non-fulfilment of that condition be recognised as the reason for the change, whoop, whoa, whoa, whoa, for the change, for the modification of the concession agreement. We also ask, of course, that Article 62(1) adds the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia as a legitimate objective for which a concession contract can be amended and also requires that the right of the financial institutions cannot be based on the good defined in Article 52(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we know that the right to concession by financial institutions can have adverse consequences for the interests of protecting Croatia's public goods such as maritime goods, agricultural land, key infrastructure. Article 52 defines public goods which are under special protection of the Republic of Croatia and we believe that this law should prevent the placing of a right of publishing by financial institutions on the possibility of and from 30 years and longer, so on something which we consider to be publically beneficial from the particular protection for the Republic of Croatia and of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6348	If you succeed, you can say something if you make it to the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6349	... without rhetoric, I'm just going to point out this part that we've seen here as an important amendment why we're going to insist on means putting in economic activity or economic activity because we don't think it's true what they said from HDZ that it's justified to throw something like that out because we're losing our right here to set the assembly in some way against unfavorable economics. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] The moves. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6350	I have to interrupt, thank you, thank you very much. There's someone's mask here. And finally, the closing word on behalf of the proposer has state secretary Mr Zdravko Zrinašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6351	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament. Finally, I would just like to take a brief look at the debate that has been held in connection with this draft amendments to the law and thank, in my opinion, a very constructive, quality and, in one part of the critical debate, which is naturally expected in each of this bill that is put before this high house. What we've already received through the amendments, etc. We will certainly consider it carefully, in this sense we would repeat what we have said during this hearing and the amendment in terms of economic interest, when the distinguished representative Bencic presented it and, finally, through the amendment, he would just like to draw attention to the fact that, in terms of the amendments to those Treaties, these standards of Article 62 relate, and in terms of the termination of the concession or the termination of the contract of concession, and for the sake of the public interest, and in that sense, to the respected representative of Bulj, only this short one would want to say that the Croatian Parliament has an absolute leverage in that part, in the sense that the concession ceases explicitly in Article 70, is cited by the termination of the concession on the grounds of public interest, and in Article 72, if the Croatian Parliament determines that the public interest is required. So we believe that this standard fully covers this part of the work of the Croatian Parliament in terms of making the right decisions. Finally, in Article 62, the third point remains that in other cases that are determined by specific laws, it is also possible to do so. Here, in that sense, thank you once again for your debate, we will, of course, consider the amendments when the time comes to vote and present the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6352	Thank you very much. Stay here. You have three replicas. The first line has Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6353	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you can't convince the public, and most of all, the MPs of Parliament that you're not taking off your rights. You abolish law, you reduce the possibility that HS will affect concessions, we have no right to do so. Article 62(2) is deleted in your proposal, we have given that amendment. I've given that amendment, and I expect you to respect it. But if you don't respect him, don't you, obviously, don't you, because you've been sent from a government that listens to officials from Brussels and respects those directives that you didn't even deliver to us in the material, and you're referring to it. I'm calling the parliamentary deputies, does anyone have the right to lift our rights? If we break our rights to ourselves then we're this Parliament literally doesn't make any sense anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6354	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6355	Thank you very much. I'm just going to repeat it because I guess we're going through repetition and we're going to get to the essence in terms of norm. I remind you, the European Commission has explicitly written that such a general definition of point 2 is a violation of Article 2. 42nd Directive in the context of amendments to the concession agreement. In the case of a non-compliance with the provisions of this Chapter, it shall be stated in particular where the concession ceases and, with the exception of the other, when it is a public interest which it carries out by its decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6356	Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6357	Okay. Thanks for the answer. We would like that paper from which you read may be obtained if you have an even wider EU response or that EU note we asked to receive if you may have among these papers, please forward to us. And what you've responded to means that economic activity is in some way ensured is that economic activity is secured by some other mechanisms in this law, so why should we not explicitly cite in addition to environmental and national security and other explicitly mentioned moments in which the Parliament can react, why not state and that it is possible to react in the event of an injured interest in economic activity?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6358	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6359	Thank you very much. I don't have it here from the European Commission, just my jokes I sketched myself in the context of the debate. So the economic interest is the definition of determining what the economic interest is. Okay, economic interest, but what? Therefore, I find it appropriate to comment again in the context of these standards relating to the termination of the concession in terms of public interest, which includes ultimately the economic interest. I agree with you if it is necessary to consider the quality of the norm itself, but if we say only economic interest, everything is economic interest, it can be financial, and it can be something else, it can be strategic, it can therefore be in the context of changing the concession agreement this norm which, but in the context of termination, if HS says by its decision that this is not a public interest this concession ceases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6360	And finally Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6361	My dear secretary. I'd like to appeal once more to think about the article. The 11th proposal of the law, but concerns Art. Six. The law on concessions relating to the transfer of rights to a third party. The aim is to manage state assets in a transparent, fair and in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. If the concessionaire has lost his right to a concession, I believe a new concession tender should be re-scheduled. In this way, if a concession is transferred to a third party, there is an opening space that the person legal person and the natural person who could not get before the concession could actually get it in... a way that is actually unfair which is not good for our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6362	Answer, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6363	Thank you very much. I don't have that norm on me, but it seems to me that you brought that part out through the amendments, so we'll certainly look at it. And it is clear and understandable that there should be national interest or the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and it is transparent in itself that something needs to be pursued, so that the transparency of the norm itself in certain regulations that should not be allowed or should prevent any malfeasance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6364	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we pass and actually by 13.00 hours at: - Proposal for a Law on the Announcement of Nature Park “Dinara”, first reading, P.Z. No. 6 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 6 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. Does the Secretary of State, Mr. Marko Shiljeg, want to speak on behalf of the motionor? Yeah. Here you go. Just a moment to say at one o'clock we'll have a stand-off, and then when it's done and that part we'll have a break by three. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6408	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The declaration of the Nature Park “Dinara” will ensure the preservation of the original natural values of this area, the rich geologicality of wild flora and fauna, endemics and the entire variety of natural habitats in the area. Nature's Park proposes to declare the dinar mass. Dinara, the Croatian part of Troglav and Kameshnica, the original part and the upper river Cetina, as well as the karst fields of Croatian, Pag and hot pasture along the Cetina, and this protection regime will preserve exceptional and multiple natural values with valuable ecological features highlighted by landscape and cultural historical values, while allowing certain activities and actions to be carried out to the extent that the essential features and role of this space will not be compromised. The adoption of a spatial plan of the area of special features and management plan of the Dinar Nature Park in the future will further regulate the protection, improvement and use, and the way in which these protected areas are managed. It also provides for the establishment of a public institution for the management of the Dinar Nature Park within 1.g. This will ensure adequate management to protect and preserve natural and other values, implement the Nature Protection Act, and ensure direct control of nature parks. The proposed Dinara Nature Park would extend in the area of Sibenik-Kninska and Split-Dalmatia County, making this the second largest protected area since the declaration of Nature Park Velebit. Nature park is situated on the following JLS, the town of Knin, the town of Sinj, the town of Trilj, the town of Vrlika, the municipality of Biscopy, the municipality of Kiev, the municipality of Civljana, the municipality of Croatia, the municipality of Island. All cities and municipalities participated in the preparation process, and public insight was carried out from 8 May to 6 June 2020, and public exposure was held on 22 May 2020. in Knin. The biodiversity and services that healthy eco-systems provide us with are necessary for a better quality of life has a direct impact on human health while at the same time providing an opportunity for sustainable economic development. The situation in which we are now is the best indicator of the importance of preserving our natural resources. We would like to point out that the EU is choosing a green recovery from the covid-19 crisis by respecting all the provisions of the European Green Plan, which makes conservation of biodiversity one of the key pillars. In addition, it is an indicator of the importance of this topic and of the proposal for law-making that new ambitious global goals of conservation of biodiversity are adopted in the coming year where the scientific community indicates that the only long-term survival of society requires a transformational change in relation to nature conservation and use. It is therefore our obligation to create all preconditions to maintain a relationship with nature and the negative influence of man to the least possible extent. One way is just to establish large protected areas, which ensures the stability of the eco-system and the stability of the climate. The establishment of a public institution for the management of the Dinar Nature Park will also provide direct ground surveillance by establishing a surveillance service, which would raise the level of security of the dinar mass, and above all we think of increased fire hazards and other elemental disasters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6409	The first line has Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6410	Thank you very much. As a representative who was born and lives in the Cetina region, I must say that I am unclear how the Minister of Environment and Economy went to cheat on all people. We look forward and rejoiced when we heard that the Nature Park Dinara would be declared. At the same time, however, the awarded concession for hydrocarbon research i.e. The drilling of Dinara, which will naturally be made by foreign investors in this area. I ask you, dear secretary, it gave meaning to the Nature Park Dinara, or this was also a coward's egg to protect the projects, is it not water-drawn this Peruca, that you still intend to make a big project of former Minister Buric's thermal power plant Peruč where the pipeline still leads from Koprivna to Peru, so can you answer me why you have avoided draw Lake Perucha in, in the park of nature? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6411	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6412	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, first of all, I am pleased to hear that in your opening presentation you welcomed the establishment of the Nature Park Dinar. As for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons here, neither you nor the entire Croatian public must be concerned. So, what's next to the park announcement? The development of spatial plans of specific features follows, meaning where the areas where economic activities can be carried out will also be clearly identified. Hydrocarbons should not be feared because none of the proposed exploitation fields and for research, especially for the exploitation of hydrocarbons, are located on the territory of the future Dinar Nature Park. So there isn't, so there's no concern. As far as the borders of Nature Park Dinara are concerned, they stem from a professional basis developed by the Institute for Environmental and Nature Protection, such as the procedure and for all other protected areas in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6413	Mr. Strike Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6414	Thank you, Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Of course I support every protection of nature and the environment, as well as the adoption of this law. However, several years ago there is one similar initiative to declare or protect the Croatian Zagorje Regional Park, I think you are familiar with it. Namely, 5000 plant species growing in Croatia, in this area are 1200. There is also a geological feature of the Gaveznica, the only preserved fossil volcano in the Republic of Croatia. Then, in Radoboj, there is the world's largest fossil site of Flora and Fauna, or I think that this part in the north is also really interesting and that it might be good to deal with this area a little bit more after this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6415	Thank you, too. Ma'am, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6416	Thank you, Your Honor, Uncle. Thank you for your intervention. As I said in the previous response, all protected areas in the Republic of Croatia come from a professional background that works for the Croatian Institute for Environmental and Nature Protection, so that we are aware of the natural resources, which characterize the north and northwest of our homeland, and this also tells the fact that we recently had the declaration of the Mur Regional Park – Drava this because of justified wealth or sufficient arguments, so that this situation that you are talking about a new protected area certainly will, as well as in these cases, be discussed by you as a parliamentary representative and local and regional self-government, and if those elements necessary for the declaration are satisfied, we have no objection to entering that procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6417	Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6418	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we do not doubt at all that it is necessary to define and have another new nature park for the simple reason that we think it is a step and that it is a good step, that everything when it was, when our fellow citizens in the area of nature park were talking about being in the reserves that proved to be in the park of nature has its advantages for both our citizens and for everything else, but what would be good and you are in the opening presentation cited by the local self-government units. I will also point out this on behalf of the club, but once again I stress, until the second reading, give a little explanation and support the whole proposal really to know which units of local self-government will especially be sensitive where the border will go, so there will be a construction area partly in the nature park, and partly in the area of units of local self-government. Keep in mind that we do not steal mistakes from other borders of some others Nature parks. [[You're past time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6419	Time. Mr. Secretary of State, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6420	Thank you very much. I certainly welcome your proposal and I say in my opening statement which units of local self-government are covered, they are famous. As for the precise boundaries that will be determined the Nature Park Dinara will certainly be both precise and determined through the spatial plan of the area of specific features, but I see no reason for us to, but in the phase of communication, perhaps more intensively and to a more precise extent, the information that is the subject of your interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6421	Thank you, too, no more replicas. If the committee's reporters want to take it, you don't have any more replicas, you don't have any more replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, and now, and yes, here you go, Mr. Bencic, in front of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, don't you? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6422	Thank you for your time. I'm not going to read you a full report, it's available of course on the board's pages, but I'm going to highlight a few things that have been highlighted in the debate and may be important for our debate this afternoon of this bill. So the committee discussed this bill at the 1st session and, of course, discussed it in, as a parent, working body. So, in the debate, we had a problem with the issue of the headquarters of the public institution for the management of the Nature Park Dinara since this protected area extends in the two provinces of Sibenik-Knin and Split-Dalmatia and it is an opinion that the selection of the headquarters of a public institution should take into account that it can be a significant factor in encouraging the development of smaller places such as Kiev or Vrlika. It is assessed in the end that the criteria for contributing to the development of the area, employment and the rest of the population in the area of nature park should be guided in the decision-making process. The question was also asked whether economic activity in this area was crucial to propose protection of this area in the category of nature park, not in the category of national park. It is also pointed out during the debate that the concessions for hydrocarbon research in the Dinara area were awarded in March, which leaves a question of which these research and concessions were granted, and prior to the declaration of the protected area. The applicant explained that all major procedures in the space are defined by the spatial-planned documentation that no oil or gas wells exist at the county level for this area are provided for. However, he noted that the ministry allowed hydrocarbon research to be carried out in the Dinarids and that it was carried out by air through a 3D method. It is about research carried out in the area of the entire dinar debris while the prerequisite for exploitation is to include exploitation fields in the area of the plan. So far as we understand the promoter, so it's not included in spatial plans in terms of exploitation, right, that we understand you well, and neither is research ok, well, thank you, that's important to us, important information. Also, one of the things that is also highlighted is that it is important that when a nature park is declared, when it is planned at the county and national level, it is extremely important to take steps before that to plan development and transfer from existing economic activities possibly to new economic activities that are in line with the objectives of nature park protection. Also, the debate expressed dissatisfaction at the borders invested, particularly with regard to the non-inclusion of military polygons in the border of nature parks. Concern has been expressed over insufficient concerns about the protection of Dinara and has raised the question of the realisation of the harmful project Reversible Hydropower Plant Vrdovo for Peru and Cetina and the realisation of the Lečevica Waste Management Centre and the possible threat of drinking water sources. In line with the part of the discussion carried out, the Committee proposed that the Committee draw a conclusion that the Committee would request information from the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development on the concessions given for exploitation in the area of the Nature Park Dinar as well as those requested and in the process, and on concessions concerning other energy productions such as hydropower plants, solar power plants and the like. A vote was held on the proposed conclusion and it was not accepted since the vote was 5 and 6 of the members of the Committee. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the next Conclusion, which is to adopt the proposal for a law on the declaration of the Nature Park Dinar, with all objections, proposals and opinions being made to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law. Here, I tried to cut as short as I could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6423	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6424	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.01 HOURS]] Before we continue to discuss the proposal of the Nature Park Law Dinar, first reading, bill No. 6, I'd like to inform you that after that point, we're going to discuss another point, and that's the MIP report. Now I'm opening a debate on the bill to declare the Nature Park Dinar. The first club is the club of the Independent Lists, the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6425	Thank you very much. Here's the esteemed secretary, secretary of state, co-workers and colleagues, citizens around the area what's left if they watch, if they have a signal, what hasn't moved out, emigrated these bad policies by state secretaries who are being conducted, if there are some people around this park then, park i.e. The proposal of the Dinar Nature Park would first welcome them if they really live in the most difficult conditions, perhaps harder than when the Turkish Empire was of these policies in free Croatia, the forgotten people. That's what I said at the stop. The free speech that was in this crown of crisis has revealed many policies, and after the earthquake that occurred, the unfortunate big earthquake is the one that happened to be no longer talking at all, mostly the story of Zagreb, and many are earthquakes and much more severe natural disasters than the policies that take place in this area where we are now declaring, where the proposal is declaring, means the Nature Park Dinara. Park Dinara itself is a symbol, it symbolises not only the beautiful nature, but it also symbolizes the pride of Croatia. It is one of the key points in the Homeland War, so here we are today. Yesterday and today and tomorrow is a memory of the days when Ratko Mladic attacked the area towards Sinj, the Cetinski end, won the Peru dam where our defenders gave their lives, many people were evicted, the Peruca dam was mined, it was one of the major attempts of genocide and ecocidality after II. The World War, so should be, I took part in these operations then as a young man, a young man, and here I would remember that area that was forgotten, then the aggressor was attacked by the Serbs, and today it is even worse forgotten by Croatian policies. When we talk about your proposal and procedure, I am also the county councilman of the Split-Dalmatia County and the president of the second-largest club and I am a councilman in the City Council of Sinja, we never discussed this. Did the mayors or did the minister come to paint several times in the island near Sinj, in Trilj or do not know where you went to your mayors and mayors to check anything left of which lambs you did not eat in the pre-election time would be allowed to debate. But this coverage only when I see it I'd say hello, I'd say hello right now to declare nature park, to the Nature Park Dinara. But who drew this? I'll start from here, Peru. So it's just a piece of the spring to Peru. Why isn't it Perucha? Why? Because the Pejcinović-Burić projects are being pushed, the current secretary of the Council of Europe seems to me, her wife pardoned that, not only her wife whom you tried to push through, it is a thermopower plant that is harmful in this most beautiful lake and along with Dinara in the most beautiful water resource, not only in the most beautiful but also the largest in Croatia, 500 million cubic metres of clean drinking water, it remained even plotted in the spatial plans of infrastructures to Lake Peruca i.e. The gas, the gas pipeline, it is now, whose interest it is now to get the gas pipeline not through Sinj il through the economic zones but to drive across the hills where it has nothing to do with dragging on Peru, it is known whose interest it is. Why isn't it about Peruchi, that's what I'm curious about? As far as the procedure itself is concerned why you did so quickly, that public debate in Knin, you didn't inform anyone, there was a minister of 5 minutes, a river, a picture was taken, in the morning he went up, and he forgot the word of the minister of the threat and the environment what this is called, Ćoric who has done more damage to Dinara, Podinari, Cetinski end, only by his decision that the garbage from the Vregorje region is driven on a 120km highway in the old trucks to the January dump of 120km, will not delay him, it won't, it won't be me, no matter what has a solution, so tell him, so I'm curious what with it? Because it's simply an empty area. Now you're declaring it a reservation, he's preserved ecologically from people, he's erased, there's no people, the policies have wiped out, some exploitation field you're dealing with mineral raw materials, and mostly they're members of a party that's the authorities in HDZ County that have the right to exploit these miners. Now, here's an example of the Pole's beam. It's a mold. If you know what the mold is, it's a house that was used to make mud once, it's being forced, so it's being properly exploited, and it mainly means mineral raw materials, but I'm curious to know what you're saying about this, that this drilling isn't going to be on Dinara. In all 8 counties of the karst region of the Republic of Croatia will drill and this and INA will drill i.e. MOL, INA, INA if we say then we think it is Croatia, it is Croatia, of course, that Croatia is what you gave it is the second pair of dangers. So at the same time that you brought in a concession on the drilling of the Hydrocarbon Dinara as a cover that something would be explored, that, for which it would be explored, at the same time, you'd have tampered with Dinar Nature Park. As far as the Chinese area we have, look at the map if you see, I know I've been an active officer for 13 years of the 4th brigade, so after the war I stayed there until 2007 there is a shooting range of red ground, I like that Croatian Army this has a shooting range, however, because the Croatian Army is a pride Croatian, but look how on Wednesday, little by the Bosnian border there are passages then it won't interfere with the cocks of cannons, guns and that, I don't know how you did this, who made this place for you or to escape because it can't be a shooting range in the nature park in the sari. No, it's going to.../incomprehensible... catch a bullet, don't kill rabbits, and that's what you're going to keep towards and boredom, neat. That's one, two, when I look at this area, we see that it's 2/3. 3/4 are in Split-Dalmatia County, behind me is the president of the council club, vice president of the Split-Dalmatia County, HDZ, council club, to say whether we have ever discussed Dinara Nature Park in Split-Dalmatia County. So this was an untransparent process of making this decision from the bottom. And I support the announcement of the nature park, so I support it. Do not say.../incomprehensible/... only the plan of quick was drawn so illogically, Lake Peruca did not, the Chief of the Municipality of Island that you are where it should be where there is room for development of the Otok municipalities, Dalmatian and synthetic that you downloaded it, and where there is for development that you plotted it into, means some resource, and where you are not supposed to be, it was personal, and that in Knin was public debate it was more than embarrassing, with 5-6 bodyguards and 3-4 of you who were there the Minister did not give a speech, but was giving a statement in front of him, and where there would be a seat and open a public institution, whether it would be opening this appointment in that institution as in the National Park of Krka where you did not appoint Mrs. Zmeniović, I have 10 times here told committees, there were ministers on boards of the boards of defenders, which had both of the status, which you had been in terms and in terms of both of the status, which you were better. Akuzala both of you and your father are so appointed to that facility and are only hiring that there are other members of your staff that they can vote now because this has moved out because we have 6% of GDP. The most GDP is brought in by a thread from this region, they've all been evicted, I think that here, I'm still living down here, and I'm still living in Dalmatia, in Sinj on Suvac near here, and when I look at this only from the Croats that you've seen, I think who sees this, it's simply done at speed, unprofessional, without public debate, of course it's our interest to declare the Park of Nature Dinara, he symbolized not only that beauty of ecological nature, but also national, it's a national mountain that meant a lot in the Homeland War, it's a mountain of victory. But couples such as Velebit's historical victory of liberation from great Serbian aggression. Where are you going to set the center? It was agreed by you in the party, the public debate wasn't. Just so you know, 3/4 are in Split-Dalmatia County, and here's the vice president of the sea to say we've discussed.../incomprehensible/... County ever Never. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6426	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6427	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs, my colleague Bulj lives in the area I have spent every summer holidays in the area of Imotska krajina and I really support the suggestion that this valuable karst area which is truly unique is declared a park of nature because our beautiful homeland are the words that our anthem begins and it is not for no reason, it is not really without reason that Antun Mihanović started our anthem precisely because, thanks to his special geographical position, Croatia is rich in numerous valuable areas of nature that are protected by the Nature Protection Act and is according to the data of the register that is headed by the competent ministry so far over 400. We have 8 national parks, 11 nature parks, some say it's too much, I personally don't think so. I think that all that is worth protecting because this attractive and preserved nature is really part of national wealth and it makes the fundamental values of every country. So these are also areas that are extremely important for an economic branch that makes up almost 20% of our GDP, which is tourism, because protected areas with their rich nature and beauty of landscape attracts many tourists, numerous visitors and of course affect the country's overall tourism potential. A number of research conducted by the Institute of Tourism also confirms that 50% of visitors of natural beauty point out as the motive of arrival and most always impressed by this untouched nature and were impressed by the beauty of water and biodiversity. Our colleague Bulj touched, but also on the Committee on Environmental Protection we talked a little bit about both the headquarters of the public institution and the vice president of the assembly, and he also appealed that the government, which will set up its regulation to set up a public institution in both Kijevo and Vrlik, means in two places that would help to revitalise this area because if Nature Park Papuk is based in Voćin, if Nature Park Kopački ris has its headquarters in Kopačevo, there is no real obstacle to this public institution being, for example, not in Vrlica. Here's a suggestion from the Committee on Environmental Protection, and also from the Home Movement Club. What confuses all of us here is that in the same area, the Dinara area has some conflicting interests. We have no objection to the announcement of nature parks, nature conservation and as one generator and tourist some, some offers in the area, but also in this area are projected hydrocarbon research, 4 large areas of a total area of 12134 square kilometres covering the area of Karlovacka via Ličko-senjska, Primorje-goranska, Zadar, Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Knin County. For one research area of Dinaridi 14, the short DI-14 was already awarded a concession, it was obtained by INA, it is 2698 square kilometers, the decision was taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a session held on 5 December 2019, published in the National newspaper 119, could be a little quieter colleague Tomašević, this means National Journal 119/2019 and the INA will carry out research in that area which aims to determine the existence, position and shape of the bed of hydrocarbons, quantity and quality of the reserves, and the conditions of exploitation. Which includes these researches, I will quote the National Journals, research includes geophysical and other geological recording, interpretation of such data collected and their study processing, and drilling, deepening, turning, equipment, testing, temporary abandonment or liquidation of research wells. So it's still a very aggressive way to base it on whether there's something interesting there for energy companies or not, and it's the first of four investigative spaces that, the first one includes almost all of the Lika-Senjska and parts of Zadar and the Carlova County. NP Plitvice Lakes is excluded from this research area because the fundamental difference between national parks and nature parks is that in nature parks is an economic activity, which is why it was my question on the Environment Protection Committee why Dinara is not a national park because it certainly deserves it because of a unique karst area which is uniquely not only here in Europe but also in the world as we have heard from Mr. Krajhmeyer something in Japan if I am not mistaken there is still and frankly it seems to me that this exploration of hydrocarbons, as well as some other energy projects that are in different stages of completion, may be one of the reasons why it is a nature park, not a national park. The Ministry, then the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, pointed out as one of the reasons for the award of concessions that local self-government has the greatest direct benefit of hydrocarbon research, so some Slavonian municipalities have been listed since they flourished there, looking for hydrocarbons because 17 million kunas have been paid, and this has brought opportunities in these Slavonian municipalities for new additional investment in the quality of life of local communities. Because I live in Slavonia, I'm really a little surprised because the standard of all of us in Slavonia is far below Croatia, and I'm not talking about the European standard. We are at about 35% of the EU average. And that in Slavonia they don't bloom roses because of the exploitation of hydrocarbons and other years of neglected economic activities, it's clear to everyone in the country, not just us Slavs. So, once again we from the Homeland Movement declare nature park, but we're not doing it together, we don't understand how to reconcile hydrocarbon research and nature protection. It's all one ministry now, as they see it, I don't know because these are two goals that have nothing to do with each other, they're opposed. And they may show quite clearly how vague this development path of Croatia is and how much we lack this national development strategy because this wandering is a little too expensive regardless of where it is financed, whether money from Croatian or European taxpayers, whether from the state budget or from EU funds, because the fact is that Europe is turning to renewable sources of energy, green policies, and we are forceing the exploration of hydrocarbons in this sensitive karst area uniquely according to its configuration throughout the world. In some ways, we are jeopardizing tourism as an economic branch that accounts for almost 20% of our GDP and remains truly unclear, undefined and above all questionable how to reconcile, on the one hand, the exploration of hydrocarbons and the protection of nature on the other hand. The Secretary of State told us that it wasn't covered, the fact is, with this first field there's no Nature Park Dinara connection, but I'm afraid this next 3 that's going to come in line, let's face it, it's not exactly, it's not like it's not going to get in the area of nature park, so we're asking the promoters to suspend the award of concessions and the second reading to get it means, some proof that there's not going to be hydrocarbon research in the Park of Nature because that's not acceptable to us in the Homeland Movement, not to us, but to the citizens, and definitely to a healthy logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6428	The next debate is on behalf of the Party Representatives Club with the name and name, Smart and GLAS, the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6429	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It is before us in the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Declaration of Nature Park Dinar. We at the Club of Representatives of the Party with a name and name, Smart and Glass will support it. But I'm going to go through a little debate and say some things that we expect to be prepared and made until the second reading. So, Croatia currently has 8 national parks and 11 nature parks. These 8 national parks usually account for 1.24% of the land territory of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. 0.69% of the sea, and these 11 nature parks, before Dinara is declared 6.77% of Croatia's land area, or 0.66% of Croatia's sea part. At the time when the last parks of nature and national parks were declared, it was always a dispute, and always the people who lived in the area discussed and said why, that they would be on the reservation because they read it as a flaw. We read that when some space is declared a park of nature, i.e. a national park, it has, among other things, potential and the possibility of a different development of the area. That it is not a flaw, there can be done certain economic activities, but controlled in the way that it defines it from the aspect of nature protection. They also showed current and national parks and nature parks that it can be really an advantage, that there can be development in that space, that it can be developed, but different. So when you have an advantage, then you really need to continue to encourage and develop that advantage. I was there yesterday when it was about something else, then I was talking about, among other things, the processes that were in some other countries. Some other countries that are being, especially behind II. svt. The war went in the direction of major urbanization or some kind of agriculture that was uncontrollable, there some, early this century, began to return some things to nature, and it was then called a clumsy translation of nature. We have some potential, we have some values, we need to insist on it, and we need to develop it. And now comes the one that I first said, and here I will continue. When you come with one of these materials to the Croatian Parliament, then this material must be prepared, especially a much better explanation than this one. I know you have all that information, but give it to me in an explanation or deliver it with the material. Uh, we have in Parliament, and somewhere else, you always have parliamentary representatives and some other general practices that are understood at all. But you also have some who are related to certain topics and some of these particular topics are understood and I ask you nicely, so this is no reason not to be. When we get to the second reading of the bill for a second reading, prepare and do the following: state what municipalities and cities are, you are in the first place, when you have spoken here, but let it also say in the explanation, so the area of the Nature Park Dinara, it has escaped behind my colleague, the area of Nature Park Dinara, it is territorial in the area and that county, the units of local self-government, it has this and that part of the individual, so as much as possible, you have it all, but let us prepare that when we decide what we decide. Among other things, there's one part that's always very sensitive, these are parts of construction areas. We in Croatia have brought all the spatial plans of local self-government units. In these spatial plans units of local self-government are defined building areas. For these construction areas are defined both the rules and the ways in which it can be built. The law allowed that when you declare something a nature park or a national park, when you do this spatial plan, that for the construction areas that are in that spatial plan, they can be defined by this spatial plan, so that those that will be done after the declaration of Nature Park Dinara, a new spatial plan for the area of nature parks and that construction areas can be defined differently and that they can be defined and different conditions. We already have experience of some other spatial plans to walk the border along the street, on the road, that you have on one side a spatial plan, I will now tell that city, and on the other hand you are in the strength of the spatial nature park. And now you have on one side of the road one rule, related to issuing a permit, on the other side of the road the other. One of the great examples of this together, I always refer to what I know more about, so this is an excellent example of Nature Park “Medvednica”, so “Sljeme” and “Medvednica” and “Medvednica” slopes are located in the Nature Park “Medvednica”. The border literally runs in the middle of the street, literally goes between two plots, and there are always challenges. We've been given a graphic contribution here to go the border of nature park. Before they decided to declare the boundaries of the nature park instructions of the catastrian municipality, the cadastrian particles when you put it on the map only then you had trouble so this graphics was an integral part of the uncomparably better, but they needed to be checked and should be seen. We do not need to be put in a situation that is very soon before the construction or development of a spatial plan we work and change the scope and by knowing that even in the parliamentary procedure, the scope of nature parks has been changed. What exactly do I mean through this discussion? If you already have some experience, if we already know we've had a problem so we don't need that problem or for the second or third time. So I'm asking you to, and that's not a problem for you, that with this explanation, you give us a little analysis that we know which construction areas you're talking about, that you're not challenging among the citizens who listen to us or don't listen to us, then this one will say, look, you'll be in the nature park, you'll be building it fast, because when you're in the nature park, you won't be able to do anything. It is not true, it is simply not true, but make sure that where such things are your problem there should have really one special sensitivity because the value of our and the value of Croatia can indeed be national parks and nature parks. You can deal with not only economic activity, you can deal with tourism in them. So this is what you show tourists your most beautiful face, when you give a window of what Croatia has, when you say the value, when we talk about Dinara, the value of Croatia is that piece of junk. Of course, someone who lives there will say, "My people are easy for you from Zagreb to talk about it, you have to live there." But you sometimes make your own, someone who seems to be flawed can take precedence. I can tell the experience we had with the North Velebit National Park, which when it was declared the Northern Velebit National Park, and when a spatial plan was made, then it's behind the announcement, and then even when the spatial plan was made, there's not much we can do about it, as we can't. Then we said that one of the things about developing livestock, returning to that indigenous livestock, putting into function the abandoned shepherding dwellings that were and there some people recognized their possibility of even economic investment and began to invest and started to deal with livestock in the way that it was before. To invest in these shepherding apartments has suddenly become an additional value. Therefore, if this could be done at North Velebit National Park, which is still a national park, I am absolutely sure that this can be done in this area. You know when we talk about parks of nature and national parks then people have a feeling now they're gonna protect everyone from some Parliament somewhere, and we're not gonna have a chance to live. That's just not true. We need to give people a chance to live, it's one of the things where you can additionally withdraw certain funds and invest. That's our advantage. So, here we go, we'll definitely support this just asking you to do another reading, that's none, that's 5, 10 pages to supplement with this that we as Parliamentarians really have full information and that then we don't have any doubts that we can otherwise have about whether we can explore or exploit mineral raw materials and which. Under certain conditions I can, we have the exploitation of mineral raw materials in nature parks, it's no news, we have some other stuff. But let's get these recommendations settled, let's be clear, and that's no problem getting another reading. You can see that I think that the mains and constituency clubs and individuals will support this, but let's just say that we don't have dilemmas, that we don't have questionnaires, but what's more important is that they don't have citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6430	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative Josip Begonja on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6431	Dear Mr. Vice President of the HS, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Introductory ladies and gentlemen, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the government's proposal for a law on the declaration of the Nature Park "Dinara". In fact, the preservation of nature and human environment should represent the highest values of each community. In the Republic of Croatia, normatively with the Nature Protection Act, the basic nature protection document setting out the long-term objectives and guidelines for the conservation of biodiversity and georaznolicity, as well as the way in which the strategy and action plan for the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia were implemented, as adopted by the HS on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in July 2017. And this strategy also defines strategic objectives that need to be directed towards action and activity, above all towards increasing the efficiency of basic nature protection mechanisms, further reducing direct pressures on nature and promoting sustainable use of natural resources, then strengthening the capacity of nature protection systems, increasing knowledge and availability of data on nature and ultimately raising levels and understanding and public support for nature protection. On the trail of the above, it is doubtless that the Republic of Croatia has a special interest in declaring the masses of Dinara, then the Croatian side of Troglav and Kameshnica, as well as the original and upper stream of the river Cetina, as well as karst fields along Cetina, Hrvatska, Paško and Vrlicsko polje, nature park. It is important to note, too, that after Nature Park Velebit this nature park with an area larger than 63 hectares will actually be the 2nd largest nature park in the Republic of Croatia. Although it is already said here by the promoters that the proposed category of protection, that it will preserve the exceptional values of this area, and above all, will preserve the original natural values, rich georaznolicity, will preserve wild flora and fauna, numerous endemic species, over 70 endemic species, different natural habitats and other natural values. Also, numerous archaeological sites and cultural and historical sites will be preserved in this area. But it is also important to say, it is particularly important for the local population, the one that lives within this area, that it will be as it is already mentioned here, allowed and certain economic activities, above all, that will not endanger the natural and role of this protected space. In order to allow for the realisation of these objectives, in order to ensure the application of legal and professional protection of Dinara and its wider area, the HDZ Representatives Club is the view that this law is needed to take into account the way in which authorised economic activities are carried out and the best solutions to the use of natural resources, but also to strengthen the tourism and educational potentials of this region. By declaring the dinara mass and its wider area a park of nature, it is certainly also a contribution to the revitalisation of this part of the Dalmatian Zagora, so the space belonging to most of Split-Dalmatia and smaller part of Sibenik-Knin County. Within one year of the date of entry into force of this law, it is irrefutable that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will establish a public institution for the management of nature, why it will be provided through two budgetary years and certain budgetary resources, by hiring employees will also provide adequate supervision of the nature park itself, but also some other issues, mentioned here as the headquarters of the institution itself. However, equally important, assumptions will also be made for the adoption of spatial-planned documentation, for the protected area, as well as the arrangement of the plan of management of the Dinar itself. All of this is aimed at better protection, improvement and use of nature park management. My colleagues and colleagues, finally known, are also told 8 national parks and 11 nature parks, I am convinced that we will soon have 12th Nature Park, and as I have already said in the introduction, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the government's proposal, the Government's proposal for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6432	Thank you. The next debate by the distinguished representative, Sandra Bencic, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6433	Thank you. So, of course, as a Green-left bloc club, we are, in principle, always to protect certain areas and to preserve biodiversity, but also because of the importance of protecting certain areas and as part of the fight against climate change and achieving the objectives of the European Green Plan. However, what we highlighted when we discussed on the board, and I will point out again, when we are working on planning to protect certain parts of the territory, regardless of what degree it is, we must therefore plan and fund, as well as activities for the economic transformation of the area. You are probably all aware and you know that very often there is a conflict between the local population and their needs, economics, with the objectives of protection and the function of protection. In order to avoid this, we must prepare the areas and economies in this area for this kind of transformation. Given that this has not been done in this case, although it could be financed from EU funds from this financial perspective, I would really suggest that it is now starting to plan in the recovery and resilience plan, on the one hand, but also in the regular ESI Funds 2021-2027. Funds to be invested specifically in protected areas to adapt economic activity to the objectives of the protection of the area. That would be, that would be one change in the way we do things and change in the way we strategically plan to develop certain areas, regions and subregion, actually. So in what was still an important element for us that we had doubts about, and we were looking through the board, so to clarify the sentence that entered the report, which is a sentence where the proposing representative pointed out that the ministry allowed the conduct of a research of hydrocarbons in the Dinarids and that it was carried out by air through the 3D method and that it was about research carried out in the area of the entire dinar cross. So, this part of the sentence, the entire dinar debris, is something that we are interested in because today we have heard from the promoters that there are no concessions or that they are not planning hydrocarbon research in the entire area of the dinar debris, but that it is exclusively those parts that are marked on the cards that you gave us, and they are outside that area. Now, why is it, why does it matter? Because when we give concessions for hydrocarbon research, for example, right. No matter what the exploitation won't take place, but precisely because there may be no exploitation because we've protected a particular area or planned it, we plan to protect ourselves with potential investment claims for damages. We are exposed to this because Croatia is one of the Member States of the Energy Charter Treaty which has, among other things, a clause on investor protection. This clause allows foreign investors to make it possible, in the event of a change in policy or a change in a specific regulatory framework that makes them unable to fully realise the investment they have entered, which also implies the stage of research and development, to have the right to compensation for damages. Of course, this amount of damage can actually be manipulated because the research company can show, of course, that it is an area, for example, richer gas or oil than it really is, so in that case, the possible damage could also be greater. What I am saying is that if we have decided to invest more in renewable energy sources, that we will follow the European Green Plan, that we are committed to reducing or combating climate change, then we cannot say on the one hand that we will finance it through, for example, the recovery programme and later on through the European Structural Investment Funds, and on the other hand, to give concessions and actually plan the energy future in fossil fuels by giving concessions for research and then later for exploitation. So it's not going with each other. And what's going to happen to us is that we're going to go down that path, give research concessions, give concessions for exploitation, at some point they're going to be pressed, and we're going to have to change that policy because of the reduction in footprints and the fight against climate change, and then we're going to be obliged to make up for that same investor's damage. I think Croatia really cannot allow it financially, and it is only a matter of planning and whether we are harmonising our energy policy with other political objectives and economic and climate change. So I will also point out, therefore, that already by, therefore, only Spain has 43 cases for you in arbitration courts that lead against it, for example, by changing their energy policy, where they left a certain quota system as well as how to pay investors in renewable energy sources, as we now have incentives, etc. which they eventually left, and they were sued. So they had, they have a bunch of cases like that. The EU is now trying to change this type of investor protection in the energy charter, but the process is not over and we do not know how it will end. So, the EU is now seeking back that right to regulate that states can therefore bring their own legislation without harming themselves and not having to pay investors, but it is only the second round of negotiations to be held in the 10th month, we do not know how it will end, and we are now at a potential risk with every concession we give for the exploration of hydrocarbons or for exploitation. It should also be borne in mind that these are two different types of concessions. One's for gas or oil exploration, and the other's for exploitation. Here, that's one of our ways to say the concern I think we need to take care of. I would ask the promoters that given that you said today that there was no work to be done on the entire dinar junk that then please officially and ask for a correction of this report because you would like the committee's report to be true and that we can remove it, remove that concern if that is the case. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6434	The next debate is the distinguished representatives of Renate Sablar Dračevac on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6435	Good afternoon. Dear Vice President, secretary with associate, colleague and fellow MPs. In the SDP, we think it is always good to protect our natural resources and in the public debate itself, so citizens have suggested that this protection be even greater to be a national park. It was rejected for reasons that economic activities could be carried out. It would be good right now if we knew exactly what economic activity you have in mind especially because of what your colleague used to say and other colleagues so far. They would also point to some other parts, once the law is passed, the government of the Republic of Croatia will establish this facility within a year. It is very important for the citizens where this facility will be established. In a public debate, the born referred to how much a smaller environment would mean to have such an institution. Europe is a Union of Citizens, the administration in Brussels is very important what quality of life is in all and most remote and inaccessible parts of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, I ask you when you establish an institution that you have in mind and that this time it is not a bigger city than some smaller environment in one of those two counties. Also on demand in the public debate you have classified a financial framework that should be spent by an institution or a nature park. I think it's a good thing you put that initial frame on, but I'm afraid it's neither real nor enough. When the establishment is established, three main persons must be employed, the director, the professional manager, the chief keeper of nature, and their gross salary on an annual basis will be around 300,000 kuna, and then there is very little money left for all other activities. I don't know if that means that the government is going to stall by implementing this law and enforce it, means only its legal obligation to be somewhere near the end of 2021 because we have a financial framework for '21. And '22. When the institution takes over and takes over its basic function, the funds, which will be allocated to the Republic of Croatia, will be significantly larger and must be made clear. There's also some small gaps. Here you can see, so on page 4, point 2, those other natural values stemmed from the centuries-old tradition of using space. Natural values cannot result from the use of space, but they are something that is the other way around and should therefore be changed from the use of space to cultural values. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 4th century 5th word "I can", but it is always possible for you to do so and so on and about it is something Mrak-Taritash speaks, respected representative Mrak-Taritash spoke, building within the park of nature is not prohibited, therefore it is allowed under certain circumstances. If so, professional services have made it clear why should we allow the law that these borders can be changed more and over later? It would be good to list interested representatives of the public if they were involved in the process of production or in the work of the section. Today, by presenting this law, you have read the cities and municipalities, but here we are interested in giving us an indication and being listed if one of the associations was involved. I also noticed that it is responsible for the environmental association of Krk that it is an expert assessment, that the colorful lakes do not cover the future nature park because it is part of the ecological network, and we believe that adequate management will prevent the distortion of its values in the future. So the nature park and the ecological network don't shut each other down. If something is put into the ecological grid, then it's already defined as having some kind of natural value. It would therefore be desirable to consider and include colorful lakes in the area of nature parks, thus increasing their level of protection. Mr. Bulj also mentioned a red country and a military polygon, could there be some way to move that polygon to another location, and this would all become a park, a nature park. I must say that I am most fascinated by the many pockets and some illogicalness in the border of nature park, and that border should be better formed in the beginning and precisely in the interest of protecting the natural, natural resources of the Republic of Croatia, and we understand that in this flexible border with a lot of pockets, local self-government leaders certainly participated and it would be good for this to go in the interest of protecting the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia, and not this meeting some other needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6436	Thank you. We have completed the debate on behalf of the club, the first individual debate, the distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6437	Thank you very much. Here, when we talk about Dinara Nature Park, I will mention once again when we start only from Knin, when we know what happens in Knin itself in relation to NP Krka, and these are the problems we have with the lagoons that go to Krk, which pollute the entire river of drink, there is a national park where the whole Sibenik-Kninska feeds almost county with drinking water then we talk about the inseriousness of the functioning and application of the Law on National Parks, o, o, and nature parks, and all the levels of other protected meanings of our areas. I'd just start here from Knin, that problem would point out that it's unserious all the time in the application itself. We have a problem, so here I see in Rumin, we're talking about the territory of the Croats where we have a pocket here that's almost out here to Karakasica, I don't know what the point is just to catch this part of the river Cetina. So why did he avoid the entire lake, even the bay in Beaver, the whole area that, why did he avoid drawing out which is a beautiful area, which he would like to get to answer. I'd like to get answers to the fact that where will the seat be, that's what interests, who's going to decide on the seat? Here we have the two counties of Sibenik-Kninska 1/3, we have this Knin significant city, we have here in Split-Dalmatia County from Vrlika to Trilja, so we have, so Vrlika, Hrvace, Sinj, Trilj means we have 4 units of local self-government and huge, Sinj is the centre. Where will the center be? How are you going to deal with this politically? Where, how, in what way? Where's that in the proposal? Did you coordinate with the local leaders? Here I just mentioned in Split-Dalmatia... Sibenik-Knin... the city of Knin is my city, I worked in the city of China for no less than 13 years as an active soldier in the 4th brigade. an active officer so it's my city, from "Storm" I've been in it and I've been following how it develops. Unfortunately, that city is dying out. We all have to work here on economic development, but really this hole, I'm a professional soldier, and I have nothing against the shooting range to develop the Croatian army, but in the middle of a national park that's bounded by the Bosnian border of Dinara, so here we have a dig, I don't know who looked at it, I don't know what this is, so what is this passage between the border and the range, very short because I know this area, so I know what I'm talking about. It's so meaningful to see if it's a protected area. So the solution had to be found to create a firing range and a training range for soldiers near this point. I know it costs, but don't make people laugh at us or do this professionally or don't. It is very important if according to Sinj my story is who will be working here, from former chief sons, this, what I mentioned was the appointment of the National Park "Krka" as Dujic appointed his staff. It doesn't matter that Mrs. Ljiljana Zmijanovic, I've had a press release with her ten times down here and talked about the problem that she has all the conditions and with the defender, so she has the status of the person who has the CNS card, SDP, HNS pardon and HDZ. In this case, we need to talk about these things. Don't let it be just declared that you have to hire 30 of your people, just don't ask that as standard. Because when I look at the Plitvices open sewerage when we look at the Krka National Park and everything from those Knin lagoons at the factory... that goes into the river it's a disaster. We have to talk here that it's nearby right here on Hana nearby will now exploit the mud I was saying, that it's being replaced by the HDZ personnel again, of course. Pilate means one hill, one beam,...if you don't drink it but you plan to drink it, now there will be a public debate, i.e. The public debate will be a decision-making process. So this whole story, I don't know, I'm also a county councilman and I'm the president of the most numerous club in the county and I'm city councilman of the City of Sin, we've never discussed this before. But it occurred to one minister who did not protect the environment, to protect him then would not be the center of the management of Lečevica, the waste would not be with Cetina from all cities trying to get past the nature park itself. Therefore, we have nothing against this, however, but do this seriously, not just to implode your staff and their family members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6438	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6439	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, along with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's the first thing I want to say is I want to commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to declare the area of the Dinara mountain range a nature park. It's really a big coverage, so we could hear almost 63,000 acres of more than 1,000 plant and 20 endemic animal species. Dinara in distant history has been mentioned as the Holy Hill back in the Ilir era, and he would say to us that it has an important and almost mythic character as one of the first mentions of our statehood. However, slightly in the shadow of an epidemic caused by this unfortunate coronary virus, news remained that in April of this year, an area covered by the Dinara Mountain Mass for days was covered by large fires, which after ten days with the efforts of firefighters, HGSS, numerous volunteers, air forces were extinguished. The question arises, of course, whether the media echo would be greater, would the awareness of the effects of the fire be stronger if the mountain park of nature was "Dinara". Given the above, I point out once again the importance of this legislative proposal and I commend the really competent ministry for its endurance in declaring this area a nature park. We have already had opportunities to hear from data from the competent ministry protected areas today include 8.61% of the total area of the Republic of Croatia and 12.32% of land territory and 1.95% of the territorial sea. The area is preceded by nature parks, which are lost by 4.90% of total state territory while 1.2% refers to national parks. However, if we look at the territorial coverage of national parks and nature parks, it is evident that all national parks are located in the area along the Adriatic coast. As far as nature parks are concerned, the northernmost part is the Nature Park “Medvednica”. In the area of the 3rd constituency, or the area of Varazdinska, Međimurska and Krapina-Zagorska County, there is not a single nature park. For this very reason, I would use this debate to point to the area of great biodiversity and georaznolikeness that exists on the territory of those counties, and especially the area of Ivančica as the highest mountains of Croatian Zagorje and Ravna Gora. Since December 2013, then, the State Institute for Nature Protection with Associates has developed a professional basis for protecting the works of Croatian Zagorje in the category of regional park. More than 200 pages of the document in question describe the landscape values of that area, geographically, geologically, geo-personality, biodiversity. A number of cultural and historical values of that area have also been described. However, unfortunately, after the production of that document or professional basis by local authorities, nothing was done at all to make that area a protected area of category of regional park. Because of this and given that there is not a single protected area of the national park or nature park in the northwestern part of the Republic of Croatia, I want to present an initiative in this place to narrow the area of Croatian Zagorje, a specific area of Ivančica, Ravna gora becomes a protected part of the natural category of nature park. As previously stated by the National Nature Protection Institute, a professional basis for protecting Croatia's Zagorje as a regional park has already been developed and, with fewer adjustments, which relate, of course, to cover the area, i.e. a reduction of the same, could be the starting point for the launch of the first nature park in the area of northwestern Croatia. Given that the nature park is managed by a public institution, which is established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am aware that the announcement of a new nature park would also mean the establishment of a new public institution and, of course, a new amount of money from the state budget. The reasoning of this legislative proposal shows that for the implementation of this law, for the establishment of a public institution and for the management of a protected area in the state budget, an amount of 474 thousand kuna is intended, so for 2021 and a little more than 500 thousand kuna for 2022. However, I also draw attention to the provision of the article. The 130th century 4th century. The Nature Protection Act, which prescribes that the Government can establish a public institution for the management of 2 or more nature parks by a regulation. In other words, there is a legal basis for declaring the new nature park, so the one I am currently mentioning and the first one in the northwestern Croatia does not potential spending on the state budget. Finally, I welcome this bill once again, with a desire for the north-west of Croatia to win the first nature park in the coming period, because given the existing professional background it definitely deserves, and it would certainly contribute to further development of continental tourism. Of course, here I expect the support of MPs from the constituency I come from, if and, as far as I can tell, they're not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6440	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6441	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So the proposal of the Nature Park Law Dinara wants essentially an area with natural beauty, prominent landscape values, educational and educational, cultural and historical, tourist-recreation values, especially to preserve, and yet enable certain human activities that, without disrupting the harmony of nature. As we could hear, this nature park will extend across Split-Dalmatia, as well as Sibenik-Knin County. It covers 9 municipalities and cities, such as Diocese, Civilians, Kijevo, Knin, Croatia, Island, Sinj, Trilj and Vrlika. This should be the 2nd largest nature park behind the Park of Nature Velebit and essentially 20th protected area, i.e. 12th Nature Park. As I come from Sibenik-Knin County, I would like to appeal, pray and explain the reasons why I believe that the very headquarters of this nature park should be in the area of our county. In this regard, Sibenik-Knin County co-financed the development of a professional nature protection base along with the municipality of Kijevo and then built all of this into a spatial plan of the county. The municipality of Kiovo and the municipality of Civljani about 80% of its space is just stretching over this, i.e. it will be within the nature park. Given the fact that the highest peak of Dinara and the highest peak of Croatia is Sinjal, it is now located in the area of Sibenik-Knin County and the municipality of Kijevo, and the municipality of Kijevo has the property that is willing to contribute to the functioning of this nature park, thus reducing the necessary start of investment. From this booth, she would ask all those who would consider where the nature park should have its seat, to be right in Sibenik-Knin County, more specifically in the area of the municipality of Kijevo. The government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with establishing the facility within a year and, as we have heard before from colleagues, it envisioned in the following year about 474 thousand kuna and for 2022. 529 thousand kuna. By forming a nature park, there will be additional values that can also affect the improvement of the life and work of the local community in a protected area, and indeed, the wealth to which this area is rich will mean a great deal to all visitors, from those younger ones where young people will be able to learn different teaching content, from chemistry, biology, geography, history and gain priceless experience. In addition, it will receive safer and more significant financial effects in the deposited space where certain jobs will be safely opened. Since the proposer is on several occasions talking about co-operation with the local community, I will pray that all the proposals of the Sibenik-Knin County delivered to the ministry, and that until the second reading, hopefully, I would like to see all these proposals and remarks included in the final proposal of this law, if not, then most, which means that in the area of the Sibenik-Knin County residents would be even more satisfied with the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6442	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6443	Thank you very much. You said well that unfortunately in the symbol of resistance, it is the area of Kiev, Vrlika, no more inhabitants, so by what the policies have made, we could declare a free level of a more strict reserve because there are simply, absolutely no, very few people in that area. However, you have opened one question here because you are from the area of Sibenik, i.e. Sibenik-Knin County and that's the problem we have right now. So Split-Dalmatia County never discussed this, and 2/3, i.e. 3/3, 3/4 are in Split-Dalmatia County. And now, of course, these unfortunate lobbyings begin when they have not agreed with local leaders and the people who live in the area, and the institutions, believe me, no one has debated, only if someone, and in fact, should be Sibenik-Knin County so that Dujic can appoint a director of the institution as he is in NP Krka so that he continues to do as in the case of Mrs. Snakeovic did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6444	Mr. Bulj, thank you for supporting this institution's headquarters, the new institution is located in the area of Sibenik-Knin County and as regards appointments, we can say with certainty that the law prescribes how it is appointed accordingly, you cannot nominate a single person you believe to appoint a director of the institution, it is known by what procedure, in which way, ultimately and uglyly, it is now to comment on a certain appointment procedure that will still be found by your court epilogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6445	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6446	And the breach of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague, she's injured an officer. 238, because the implication is that I'm influencing some kind of procedure. It was supposed to be all arranged, not through Dujic and the team Isolated for entanglement. [[And what's hurt?]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6447	What's hurt, we don't understand? ... Okay, thanks. [[You can't hear me.]] Dear Representative Marko Pavić, next individual debate. [[Intruder Bulj: Art. 238.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6448	Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates, it is my pleasure that today we can support the Nature Park Law of Dinar today. As already said, we have currently 8 national parks, 11 nature parks, this will be 12 and what I will look at in my individual debate is exactly the potential that such national parks and nature parks have for the development of local areas. I will focus primarily on European funds, but so far in this period, over one billion kunas have withdrawn national parks and nature parks from European funds. The best example is also the most visible PP Biokovo. We are all, personally, at the opening, I am sorry that Minister Coric did not, but congratulations to Minister Coric and his team and park Biokovo at the opening of the Skywalker or the celestial promenade in Biokovo Park and how much the secretary of state has informed me, more than 200,000 people have visited so far. On this example, we can see what the potential of nature parks is, I see no conflict at all, but I see an opportunity to develop especially when we know that of 22 billion euros and 12.5 billion, respectively... , 10 billion euros in the recovery programme, both have the thematic concentrations of 30% which must be related to environmental protection and climate change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about this area, as well as geophysics, as someone who listened to the hydrology colleges, I especially welcome these professors, academics, or emeritus Bozidar Biodić and Ranko Jugaj who planted my love for the debris, according to the waters, that we can protect the source of Cetina and all the tributaries that are in that area. Infringements of phenomena and these waters need protection, they can certainly be the generator of economic development and I can say that I am proud to be within this law. This 12 article law is not a large, defined space, defines the establishment of a public institution but it is a prerequisite that we can start withdrawing European funds and that we can create a development generator. I certainly support that in some of the smaller places they are the headquarters of that public institution but I also believe that the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development has a vision along with experts in how to use future envelopes and that this public institution has development projects for this area. What is the message and what would you like me to see in the future? So what we're up to is the programming process, the project writing process, so it's good that right now we have this law, it's good to go into two readings, to manage to discuss what all of the potential developments we see, which projects can be found here in the Dalmatian Zagora, as announced in the Government's programme, 2 billion kunas for the Dalmatian Zagora programme, like and G Kotar and Banovina within which I believe there will be funds for this nature park, 150 million kuna of intervention plan for the Chettinian end, therefore, I believe that significant resources will already be provided, it is only necessary to work, plan projects, provide resources for documentation to be absorbed as soon as possible. So I call on the Ministry to, or to the Government, establish an institution as soon as possible, not to wait for a legal deadline within a year, to team up and start as successful and with other projects in the parks of nature, to start with the development of these projects in order to manage to withdraw all resources in time and which are significant but for which we have also shown within this financial framework that we can use successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6449	We have one replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6450	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm glad you're a fan of the cross, I don't know why you didn't do everything you did to stop the Levice Management Center, which is right on the cross, and it'll affect a lot of drinking water sources, even the Jadro will poison, we see that we've already got a lot of problems. I wish we could have protected it before, I see you two knew each other, you had great teachers, I live on it, and I'll stay here till the end. When you mention 150 million kunas for the Chetino end, let's give me a list of where that money will go and what projects that money is given. I'm interested and I'm interested in the people of the Cetina region. For which projects and where is this money now, whose account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6451	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, obviously we're both lovers of junk. As far as the intervention plan is concerned, it is foreseen for the future financial period on, a decision has been made, so from next year, don't do that, as of next year 150 million kuna. The intervention plans as such are designed to bring out local communities, the projects we looked at, also the Imotski plan where 242 million kuna projects were absorbed. Therefore, in the municipalities of the Cetina region and the town of Sinj is to propose projects, if you are a councilman there, I believe that you will have influence and that you will contribute by your knowledge and experience to the development of these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6452	Thank you. We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6453	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238, but since the election year is next year, we consider this a false promise, so I withdraw the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6454	And you can't take it back and get a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you can't pull it when you say it. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6455	... Vice President HS, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, viewers and viewers in front of small screens. [[Speaker not enabled]] Here the mountain has always been an inspiration and inspiration, including Velebit or Dinara not only to the poets, I will start with Peter Zoranic but also to HV who went there in liberating action to be free in our independent state of Croatia and, and to Croatia, please, can I?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6456	Mr. Bull, don't... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6457	Here we are after 10 years. and the Croatian government is inspired by Dinara to establish a nature park. The establishment of a public institution will certainly protect flora and fauna, and space will be arranged there. The establishment of a nature park will also help all residents, or certain people, to be employed and that the Dinar region will have 10 or 15 families that will continue to live and have their existence. I do not doubt that setting up a nature park would actually be a camouflage to do activities there that are not in line with environmental protection and I also believe that if there were any activity that would come here before this honorable home and that HS would make a decision on that and that sort of thing. What's important now is that we now have a North Velebit Nature Park, we have a national park and now we have a nature park. So, the Croatian man can enjoy the clean air and surely the establishment of the Nature Park Dinara are both cheered and mountaineeres who will get this well-preserved, preserved trail and I believe that they will also enjoy the mountaineering association of Tulove beams from Jesenica which each year attends the nature park. I think this law is clear enough, that the legislation has been made, and I'm calling here to believe what we've done, and we're certainly not defetists or downhearted and all that's done, all the laws that are being passed, we're immediately starting to say that they won't, that they won't get the result. So, let's believe, let's have optimism and build a future so we can all be better off here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6458	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6459	Let's start over, Honorable Vice President HS Mr. Sanader, Mr. Bukarica, State Secretary, welcome to all of you distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. I'd like to talk about this very important subject and let me in one way express my fear. I'm showing concern because I know we need laws, what a state without laws, and I know we have to pursue a regulated state, regulated laws. But I also know that sometimes laws are passed and that's why I think it's important to talk about them. On the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, when we were just discussing the theme of Dinara Park, I personally asked my colleagues what was going on with certain questions that came to us from that area, did INA plan on doing on that part any research that already plans what kind of information we have, but is the ultimate goal of their research a well? As far as I'm aware, I haven't had the answer to that question by now, and I'm asking this way to get the relevant answers. We commend, not only is there some criticism, we commend, we really commend your work, we commend the efforts of the ruling because we really needed a park of nature and it is not at all controversial. For the purposes of this Regulation, the The Nature Protection Act clearly states in the Nature Park that economic and other activities and procedures are allowed not to endanger its essential features and roles. But I can't help but notice that I live in Croatia where sometimes on desert islands where any construction is strictly forbidden, strange villas of 10 million kuna emerge and are strictly banned. I can't help but notice that I'm coming from Rijeka, not far from Rijeka is the Marisk where the laws say all the stuff and then the NZZ in February measures 106 chemical compounds unauthorized, 12 dangerous, people, dear colleagues and colleagues, 5 carcinogens, I didn't do measurements, I did the NZJZ. Your colleague in the County Assembly of Rijeka, a colleague of the HDZ, released that information that then blew up the whole dust, 5 months ago. It was not known that the people of Marisca, the people of Maricella, were being poisoned and the law says everything is fine, we're doing measurements, everything's fine. It is not all right and we will fight as much as we can for the citizens and for the nature that surrounds us and therefore I am glad that my colleague Bulj is not only active but loud, at the end of his boot as Croatian soldiers and Croatian defenders and Croatian defenders have passed every step of Dinara and we who mountained Dinaro, then we still experience it in one dimension of those Croatian defenders who defended our home and then went through that same country. So this should be our loud appeal, our loud cry, our loud cry and our loud plea to protect Dinar as much as possible and not allow for any research on Dinara that would disrupt the ecological system, which would contribute to the animal world and the plant world experiencing some cataclysm. I said in the end, I could finally say, well, we have a number of activists in this area who are going to fight for the protection of Dinara, and I would add in the end, we have a colleague, Mira Bulja, who will certainly not let any drillings come out of Dinara from anyone, let alone the INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6460	Next individual debate, MP Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6461	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, State Secretary, distinguished parliamentary deputies and MPs. Here are perhaps a few words of me as a man who comes from Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema, namely Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem are also in every possible way one of the more beautiful parts of our beautiful country of Croatia. - Mrs. Crescent. In the beginning, Vucilović began his exhibition with how beautiful Croatia is. Public institution PP Kopački rit may be something that cannot be geographically compared naturally and naturally with Dinara but can speak as former Deputy Mayor of Osijek-Baranja County about what public institutions essentially bring when it is founded. This initiative for the establishment of a public institution of PP Dinar is certainly something that is primarily good for the Republic of Croatia, we get another natural area that we protect from every devastation. Of course, when we make decisions like this, we have to keep our eyes wide open, it's clear, there may always be something that is not in line with what we should talk about here, and of course it must be the one that will lead the main word. I'll just say that PP Kopački ass has about 26,000 ha somewhere, Dinara of course as a mountainous area has somewhere here about 64,000 ha. There are 35 workers working in the nature park right now, and I will say that the Baranja area is safe and touristic and in every other way it has come to life, and the perjanica is tourism in the area of our Osijek-Baranja County, which is what I am saying for the very reason that these institutions can also look for this economic activity that will certainly happen. What is certainly important, and in the end here, and we are discussing, that all that is seen in this first reading is something that could potentially create a problem, cleanse for the second reading, and that here is the PP Dinar to become part of these natural beauty that it truly is and that Croatia can also show on its own and touristic and all manner of maps another area that is protected in any way. But, let's be honest, nature parks are also wearing their limits that are absolutely clear to everyone, once you declare nature park or establish a public institution, the protected area remains protected in every respect, we as a PP digging ass of course have the most mosquitoes because simply certain European regulations don't allow the treatment of mosquitoes in the most effective way, and that's air-treatment than looking for some other methods that are absolutely different, but these are restrictions for which solutions, alternative or any other ones can be found, therefore, here, I welcome that the Croatian state will get another nature park, another public institution, and I want people who will manage with a public institution to do so in a way that the law and all the people of this region want to live, for 1, 2 or 3 or 5% in any way, and that both in demographic and economic terms of this area, which is like Eto and our Slavonia, Baring may not get the best alive at this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6462	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6463	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here is this proposal for a law on the declaration of the nature park of the plan massa dinar which is ahead of us includes Dinara, the Croatian side of Troglav and Kameshnica, part of the river Cetina and karsk fields along Cetina. Therefore, this law will ensure legal and professional protection of Dinara in this regard. Sustainable way of carrying out economic activity, optimal solutions for the use of natural resources will be strengthened by the tourism and educational content of this area, protection, improvement and use, development of rural areas, development of economic and other activities, better benefit for the community by carrying out a range of activities, fishing, hunting, which are still being carried out, even better co-existence of people living there, with this space, for example, walking. The aim of this law is to preserve the original natural values, the nature park is second to the strength of categories of protected areas which the area clearly defines the Nature Protection Act. In the Republic of Croatia 8 national parks, Brijuni, Kornati, Krka, Mljet, Paklenica, Plitvice Lakes, Risnjak, North Velebit, so there are 8 of them, and nature park is the area of natural beauty in which human activities are allowed, but without disrupting the harmony of nature it is just a sight to show that Dinara really is. Now we have 11 nature parks, such as Biokovo, Kopački Rit, Lonjsko polje, Medvednica, Papuk, Teleščica, Velebit, Vransko Lake, Učka, Žumberačka Samoborsko gora and Lastovo islet. The Croatian mountaineering alliance was founded in 1874 as the 9th people in the world and the first in this part of Europe. The Croatian mountaineering alliance has 358 mountaineering associations and 37 200 registered mountaineeres. The mountaineering museum is now located in Ogulin and Karlovac County, which tells the story. Going into nature and moving in clean air is an active way of rest, which despite man’s physical effort, fills with mental satisfaction and strength. These are components that contribute to the overall health of each individual. Finally, this law should definitely be supported because it allows the right way to develop Dinara as an important space for the development of natural resources of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6464	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement, the distinguished representative Ruzica Vukovac, the final debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6465	... Vice-President of the HS, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] If we start from the assumption that the nature park is a vast natural or partly cultured area of land or sea with valuable ecological features with prominent landscape and cultural and historical values, where economic and other activities and actions are allowed, which do not endanger its essential features and roles, we are asked what is the question of farmers living in this area, dealing with livestock and desire, say, expanding their herds, wanting to build a new farm, a new barn or perhaps a siren. So we're left with an open set of questions for them. The fact is that all the indicators in food production from year to year are falling unconstitutional. We miss both meat and milk. Mostly because we prefer import rather than domestic, but also because the policies led by the Ministry of Agriculture preferred to support farmers in Romania, Bulgaria or another country in the environment. Why am I saying that? And this morning he won a headline in the media that Croatia will support heroists from its budget from the new 60 million kuna. I remind you, it's not a hero from domestic production, but in the largest number of junados drowned by imported calves. Croatia would prefer to support those who buy almost 3 or 4 months old, feed it, feed it for the next year and then lobby for support in the ministry. Rather than a domestic producer who has to feed a cow for a year to take her away from him afterwards. He must invest in veterinary care, in adolescence, often pay for the service of the veterinarian and feed the bodies for which no one asks. Most of the time tomorrow, there's not a drowned bull or anyone to sell it to, because the associations of the marauders, but also the importer, have flooded the market. And then we swear to protect.../incomprehensible/... how we protect the OPG. Although the Dinara area, people say, is given to God for the pasture and for the livestock industry, after countless affairs with which we relate to the problem of karst pastures, even Dinara himself, there is not a single cattleman who made any comment, nor that it is good for him to protect this area nor that it is not. Not a single person who already lives in this area has made a comment. And what does that tell us? We're doing it again without the final consummations of the law. We make laws again without including those whose fates the law applies to. Does Minister Coric know if the residents of this area agree with such a bill, on the basis of which he decided that this law is good for them? Do the inhabitants of whom, in fact, are very few, know that their pastures will soon be trampled by tourists? That tickets to their property will soon be charged, whether any hosts from the area know that they will no longer be able to carry out their activities as they have been until now, but will have to negotiate and sign concessions in order to continue working in their facilities. I also have to mention that financial amount that's scheduled for management. The projected funds of an indicative 500 thousand kuna will not be sufficient, let's be realistic and see what all the management of nature park should have at its disposal. In addition to staff employed in the administration, which is about 5 months’ wages, we should have available in the administrative building, which means overhead costs, maintenance costs, several so-called so-called. a ranger which will tour the area, vehicles which will tour the protected area, their maintenance, fuel, amortisation of the vehicle, etc. All of the above says that the adoption of this law has its own fiscal effect and that today we should have had a full form of assessment of the effects of regulations and statements as required by Article. 174. The Rules of Procedure of HS, unfortunately, and we lack this law. I would remind you that former Economy Minister Martina Dalic wrote on the Ministry of Economy's pages in time and promised that the regulation's impact assessment process would work not only for the laws coming out of her ministry but even for the regulations. It's a shame there's at least one thing about the common good that we can't abide by. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6466	Thank you. Next final debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6467	Thank you very much. In the pre-election year I forgot so all of these things you said and the former minister who said that 150 million were secured in the Compensation Fund, it is in the future period, so at this point we can declare this area a reservation because the people no longer have, there is no cattle, in fact this colleague who said, raises, essentially incentives are given neatly for the maintenance of pasture in this area, but mostly people who don't know how many cows have tits, so that all of this is functional, all of the country is doing its jobs as it should be the worst for that people and as far as the public awareness is concerned, it was going to be over the shooting speed, there would be any road the minister of dangers and the environment of Čorić, all of our people in the region are concerned, so much that the mayors and the mayors, here I repeat once again, behind me is the vice president of the Parliament, Mr Sanader, who is also the president of the president of the club, and the president of the town of the town of Split has become the most important, and the importance of the people in the region of the region of the region, the region of Croatia. And next year, for the election, and then they're... It means next year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they gave us nothing but what they took from us. And don't give us any more, but don't take it away from us, folks, you've evicted that people. I repeat, most of the people are out there, young people out there, out of this area, who send you money to their families, so we have 6% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia, 20 billion kunas from those areas mostly that have been evicted. Worse than during communism, worse. Then he organized Tito trains to Germany and now they're leaving for individuals, for older men, they're returning husbands,... Now the whole family's leaving, one-way ticket. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those are the facts. Don't make me pre-election promises. What are you going to do with the Reversible on the Vrdov? Is the spatialally reversible property of Mr Buric, former Minister of the Council of Europe, drawn in the spatial plan? Tell her whether or not she is. It is. It is drawn in this area, a reversible hydrocenter is planned in this area. Now it's planned, Mr. Sanader, here's what didn't inform you about this, about development projects, it didn't inform me, so no matter how much we agreed, we all love our Dinara, we all like to survive people in this area, but this is a pre-election pamphlet for local elections, just like Plenkovic was in Split-Dalmatia County the other day and promises 22 billion European things. Now I don't know, it wasn't written either euro or kuna, something just down in our county, so two, three years ago, he had a government meeting in Split promised 2 billion kuna, so far zero kuna. Don't play with these things, don't just wind with Dinara is a dear song, Dinara has something fantastic, wind of life, that huk, don't just serve as he served for wind power plants in Padjans, just to spin for private pockets, how to steal. So let's stop this more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6468	On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Mario Šiljeg.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. First of all, on behalf of the ministry, I would also like to thank all the parliamentary representatives who participated in the debate, I would like to thank all the clubs because it is clear from the debate that all the clubs essentially support the fundamental idea with which we are here today, which is the declaration of the PP Dinara that we are very pleased and that we highly appreciate that such a proposal that came out of our house deserves your trust. There have been very constructive proposals, I am sure that when we prepare the text of the law for second reading we will make sure that some of these constructive proposals enter into the final text of this law. What I would like to repeat from my presentation today, and what I believe and my associates have caused the greatest interest of all who have debated, is so-called. I would also like to make it loud and clear here before you Assembly representatives and MPs in the area covered by the Proposal for a Law on the Announcing of the Nature Park Dinar is not approved any, not one concession for research or for the exploitation of hydrocarbons. None for research or exploitation. The esteemed representative Vucimilović mentioned field T-14, this field is located between 50 and 60 km from the border from the nearest border of the future Nature Park Dinar. It's obvious from the debate that two concepts may interfere, they're Dinarids and Dinaras, like nature parks. Dinards or Dinar Alps cover an area of Italy, via Croatia, BiH, Kosovo, Albania, so it's the Dinarids, and there's probably some misunderstandings. It means the essential fact behind which we stand that we have not been granted a single concession for neither research nor exploiting the territory of the future Nature Park Dinar. As for the finding that everything is done quickly and that it may be another pre-election trick or pre-election project, I will say that 15 years ago in the then State Nature Protection Office came a proposal and a request to declare the Nature Park Dinara. This request was made by the State Office, which was then done for nature protection, made a professional basis, this expert basis was revised more than a year ago to presently, the parliamentary representatives would come with a proposal for a text on the Nature Park Dinara, so it's not a fast-drawn project, but on this project, here's the idea for almost 2 decades. As for the public debate, the public debate lasted as long as the law and asked us to, it's 30 days. As for public exposure, as counterpart Bulj said, a respected representative, on May 22, despite the crown, was also held public exposure, so we can't talk about some kind of speedy lawmaking. As far as the exact borders are concerned, there has been a lot of debate today, and this means both the borders and the categorization of protection, whether it will be a national park or a nature park, has first and foremost come from this expert background. The professional basis defines the exact value of some space in terms of biodiversity and in terms of flora and fauna and in terms of mineral raw materials and all other cultural heritage, etc. means there are parameters according to which an area can be valorised by a certain degree of protection. The expert basis developed by the expert body said that the nature park is the most appropriate level of protection that will cover or provide adequate protection of that area. As far as economic activities are concerned, yes, economic activities are allowed in the area of nature parks, and this is exactly one, let's say, I could even say one of the demographic measures for reviving these areas which, I agree, are both devastated both by people and by activities, but all these economic activities, and above all, here thinks of a concrete example of Dinara of traditional values and breeding or pasture of cattle and traditional activities that people have dealt with in this area over the centuries. We appreciate that by declaring nature parks, there will certainly be incentives, revitalisation and resuscitation of such activities in this area. Representative Pavić mentioned the number and amount of EU projects that we have invested in the area of parks in this operational period alone. It's more than 20 projects of over half a billion kuna worth. The most beautiful indicator, like his colleague said, Biokovo. We are despite the Crown in Biokow with the construction of this, so-called celestial promenades, increased revenues and number of visitors by 80% this year, which alone says that this and the declaration of an area protected by the area and the construction of infrastructure can and should have a positive impact on this specific area. Here, I say, we have time until the second reading, and we are very well aware that part of the proposal was constructive, we will definitely valorize those proposals within the ministry, and what would be especially satisfying is that in the second reading with these amendments and additions that are expected and for which we are willing to support them, we have one of the laws that will be unanimously passed in this honorable House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6470	We've got one replica. Hold on. Dear representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6471	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I would once again ask you on behalf of all residents of Sibenik-Knin County to consider the memo, suggestions and remarks that came later, after e-Consultation, the truth, but this one refers to the part and the Nature Park Dinar and to respect what you think is realistic, given that most of these municipalities, cities, especially the municipalities of Kijevo and the municipalities of Civljani have almost 80% of their space right inside the nature park, and I would ask from this place that Kijevo is the seat of a new public institution because it is ready and willing to give up space, and thus would certainly reduce and rationalise the costs of the future establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6472	Answer, do you have an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6473	Thank you very much. We will, of course, also consider this proposal, since, besides you, several respected representatives and MPs have had an exhibition on the subject of the centre, i.e. where it will be the headquarters of that institution, so, as it says in this law, within a year, the establishment of a public institution will be proposed. In that regulation on the establishment of a public institution, of course it will also be defined as the headquarters of a public institution, the regulation will also, as well as the draft law, pass the legal procedure of public consultation, so that the centre, or headquarters of a public institution, is not a problem, i.e. it is not a topic of law, but rather a regulation on which it will be taken into account to hear the opinion of the local community and to pass through public consultation for 30 days, where there will be time and space for all to reiterate their reflections on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6474	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6475	Thank you very much. Here, I would only repeat it once again, I know that it is not the subject of this proposal of the Nature Park Law, but I think it mentioned something similar to that of my colleague in the replica, when you had your opening presentation, and therefore, it is the possibility that in the northwest of Croatia, therefore, as I said in my debate of the individual, we do not have, in particular, in the 3rd election only any national park, no nature park. The professional basis, therefore, for declaring a regional park exists with some minor procedures, I am sure that, of course, in cooperation with the competent ministry, therefore, we could also win the first nature park in the area of the 3rd constituency. What you said yourself, for example. in Biokovo, as counterpart Pavić said, therefore, surely, along with all of what you have stated and great opportunities for the development of tourism in the area. Well, please consider the initiative in the ministry as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6476	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6477	Thank you very much, MP, certainly on the trail and your presentation and presentation of fellow Stricks, and especially given the fact that there is an earlier period of professional basis that we will be guided by the same example, that we will valorise this expert base, complement and I believe that we will find a solution that will be to the general satisfaction of both us in the ministry and the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6478	Thank you. Thank you, Secretary of State. We've completely exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm now setting a recess until 6:00 p.m. when as announced, we'll discuss the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission whose session started at 5:00 p.m. At 6:00, we move on. It's 4:57 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6480	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 1800 HOURS]] This and now we will discuss the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr Robert Jankovics, to submit the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6481	The Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament, discussed the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime at the 4th session held on 17 September 2020. As of 17 September 2020, Kp-Us-271/2020 was sent through the DORH Act No. Kr-Doo-1044/2020 of 17 September 2020 to the President of HS for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings and to grant authorisation for the deprivement of liberty and the determination of an investigative prison against Vinko Grgić, representative at HS, on grounds of reasonable doubt that he committed a criminal offence of the taking of bribes from art. 293th century 1. Penalty law. Vinko Grgić is a representative of the 10th meeting of HS and based on art. 76 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 23. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and without a decision of the HS shall not be detained or a criminal procedure can be initiated. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission under Article. 116. HS's Rules of Procedure proposes that HS take the following decision: It is approved to initiate criminal proceedings against Vinko Grgic, an agent in HS at the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. As of 17 September 2020, Kp-Us-271/2020 was sent through the DORH Act No. Kr-Doo-1044/2020 of 17 September 2020 on grounds of reasonable doubt that he has committed a criminal offence of the taking of bribes from art. 293th century 1. Penalty law. Also, after the debate was held, the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the basis of Article. 116. HS's Rules of Procedure proposes that HS take the following decision: Permission is granted for the deprivement of liberty and the establishment of an investigative prison against Vinko Grgic, a representative in HS at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime. As of 17 September 2020, Kp-Us-271/2020 was sent through the DORH Act No. Kr-Doo-1044/2020 of 17 September 2020 on grounds of reasonable doubt that he has committed a criminal offence of the taking of bribes from art. 293th century 1. Penalty law. Reason: The Mandate-Immunity Commission decided to grant authorisations for the deprivation of liberty and the establishment of an investigative prison, as well as for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MPs in HS Vinko Grgić at the request of the DORH as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences in order to be able to carry out its duties, which is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in jurisdiction. So that's decision one. 2. At its 4th session held on 17 September 2020, the mandate-immunity commission of the HS discussed the request of the State's attorney, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. As of 17 September 2020, Kp-Us-271/2020 was sent through the DORH Act No. Kr-Doo-1044/2020 of 17 September 2020 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings and to grant authorisation for the deprivement of liberty and the determination of the investigative prison against Drazen Barisic, representative at HS, on grounds of reasonable doubt that he committed a crime of trade in influence from art. 295th century 1 and the criminal offence of abuse of the position and authority referred to in Article 1 291 St. 1 in relation to Art. Versus 34. Penalty law. Drazen Barisic is a representative of the 10th meeting of HS and based on art. 76 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 23. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and without a decision of the HS shall not be detained or a criminal procedure can be initiated. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission under Article. 116. The Rules of Procedure of Croatia propose to the HS the following decision: It is approved to initiate criminal proceedings against Drazen Barisic, representatives of the HS at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. As of 17 September 2020, Kp-Us-271/2020 was sent through the DORH Act No. Kr-Doo-1044/2020 of 17 September 2020 on grounds of reasonable doubt that he has committed a crime of trade in influence from art. 295th century 1 and the criminal offence of abuse of the position and authority referred to in Article 1 291 St. 1 in relation to Art. Versus 34. Penalty law. Also, after the debate was held, the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the basis of Article. 116. HS's Rules of Procedure proposes that HS make the following decision: Permission is granted for the deprivement of liberty and the establishment of an investigative prison against Drazen Barisic, a representative in HS at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. As of 17 September 2020, Kp-Us-271/2020 was sent through the DORH Act No. Kr-Doo-1044/2020 of 17 September 2020 on grounds of reasonable doubt that he has committed a crime of trade in influence from art. 295th century 1 and the criminal offence of abuse of the position and authority referred to in Article 1 291 St. 1 in relation to Art. Versus 34. Penalty law. Reason: The Mandate-Immunity Commission decided to grant authorisations for the deprivation of liberty and the establishment of an investigative prison as well as for the initiation of criminal proceedings against representatives in HS Drazen Barisic at the request of the DORH as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences in order to be able to carry out its duties, which is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in jurisdiction. 3. At its 4th session, held on 17 September 2020, the Court of Mayors' request in Slavonski Brod, was addressed to the president of HS for the authorisation of the continuation of the criminal proceedings against Darko Puljasic, a representative in HS for the criminal offence of counterfeiting a business document from art. 279th century 1. The KZ and the criminal offences against the subsidy fraud economy described in Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation. 257th century 3 in relation to Art. 258.St. 1. KZ with the application of Art. 51. KZ on the indictment of the County State's Attorney's Office in Slavonski Brod No. Ko-Doo-19/2020-1 of 10 January 2020 Darko Puljašić, is the representative of the 10th meeting of HS and on the basis of art. 76 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 23. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and without a decision of the HS shall not be detained or a criminal procedure can be initiated. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission under Article. 116. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall propose to the HS the adoption of the following decision: Approval shall be granted for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against Darko Puljasic, a representative in HS for the criminal offence of the counterfeiting of the business document of art. 279th century 1. The KZ and the criminal offences against the subsidy fraud economy described in Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation. Article 258(3) 258.St. 1. KZ with the application of Art. 51st on the indictment of the County State's Attorney's Office in Slavonski Brod No. As of 10 January 2020, Ko-Doo-19/2020-1 of the Mandate-Immunity Commission decided to grant authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against MPs in HS Darko Puljasic, at the request of the County Court of Slavonski Brod, so that the competent authority could carry out its duties without delay, which was based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6482	Thank you very much, President Mandate-Immunity Commission. This, we have two replicas reported, although it is unusual for the Committee's report, i.e. the Committee's president has nothing to answer, or he can't answer anything other than what the commission has concluded, but here, they insist on colleagues, so the first one will have a replica, a respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6483	Thank you, Vice President. Whether it's common or unusual, it's not metric. The only thing that matters is whether or not it can be done according to the Rules of Procedure can, therefore, be my right. I'm going to ask one question, so, to the MIP or the gentleman representing the MIP, an immunity request has arrived. Someone should call for immunity to be discussed in the first place. I would like to know if these MPs have called for immunity, whether you have any knowledge of what is happening with Mr Barisic, whether he intends to resign in the parliamentary term because his departure to custody means a sufficient number of hands for the majority. The only possible way is for Mr. to resign or vote online from Remetinco. Well, here, I'm curious about the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6484	Well, if I may, the MIP didn't receive any of this now, which you said, so the only thing we received was a request from the state's attorney's office, and like every time in previous terms, the MIP acted on that request, I don't know what else to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6485	The Republic was requested by the esteemed representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6486	Here, thank you very much. Since my colleague Grmoya asked the question I thought, I'm giving up on the replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6487	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to open a debate on this point, so the first one on behalf of the Homeland Movement, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, will speak to Honorable Representative Davor Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6488	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the end of this long day came a very real dramatic air-conditioning like in a real action movie. We've been talking about corruption here all day and through the Law on concessions, and here we are, finally, really welcomed, so to speak, the big showdown is through this procedure of BUSCOK and the State's Attorney's Office. Today we are here to look at ourselves, to look deep into ourselves, and to kind of quote a great writer, Mr. Ephram Kishon, who wrote in one part “sometimes when the cover is lifted off,” as he calls it,“ political frogs, when an ordinary man sees inside then he sees all the utter dirt and all the true horror of what politics could be called. ” That's what Ephram Kishon said, and I have to tell you, of course, from one of the most basic legal rules, which is the premise of innocence, that I'm not talking here exclusively about this present case, or the MIP report, but in general about the fact that we're all talking to our friends, our friends, our family, our citizens, we come to, often come to a conclusion, or they tell us my old or old mine is no longer to look at. Some people say I'm even disgusted. We have succeeded in completely destroying people's trust in the institutions of the Croatian state, in those of us who are here to be honest, to be honest. There are so many centuries and so many times in this place and in other places where meetings of the Croatian Parliament were held honest and honorable people talked about how, how to make this country a better place for the lives of all those who live in it. Unfortunately, even hundreds of years ago, there have been those who have abused the trust given by the Croatian people, but in the last 30 years since we all created the Croatian state together, and many have died for it, what is happening is the worst thing that can happen. I mentioned once, many young people, and the middle - aged ones did not go abroad exclusively to increase their material incomes. People have run away because they don't feel safe, they don't trust the institutions of this country, and for that nobody else is responsible but us, and that's why when I say we're thinking of the Homeland Movement, and I appeal to all of you, representatives of all parties, of all religions, of all nationalities, that we will fight corruption 24 hours a day against corruption, of clientalism, of nepotism. What we're reading right now is terrible accusations, trade in influence, receive and give bribes, abuse of position and authority, illegal bargaining, not to mention further. Once again, of course, I come from the fact that these three gentlemen have the full right during the process to prove their innocence and at present absolutely no one is challenging her. Here we are, of course, talking about removing the immunity that gives us the right to each other's parliamentary deputies, as the people would say, in the mustache, cut what we think and, of course, we don't have to answer to the law or the institutions that the law represents, and that's okay. A parliamentary representative, or representative, needs and must have the full right to speak freely without fear of banning anyone, including legal regulations. In the end, we fought for it. There's not much philosophy here, there's not just one example, there's both a slow and inefficient judiciary. Now, I believe now that you're going to have coffee with your friends this afternoon, someone's going to say that they're going to be saved, photographed and released. They say there was such a joke a few months ago that it was about a corruption affair in Croatia as sports fishing, catching them, painting them and letting them back. We don't know if that's going to happen in this case, we're not going to bring absolutely no ideas, no pressures, or, let's say we put pressure on the judiciary, we're going to let them do their job in the faith that it's going to end right. Whether the suspect ends up on the loose or in prison is a matter of the state's attorney's office, it's a matter of the judiciary. If they're gonna take off their immunity, the thing is, well, you saw it, MP. But the thing about us from the Homeland Movement is the constant struggle to really change the paradigm of politicians in Croatia, to really realize that we have to rip up the weeds and have a right to fight from morning to night, to create from Croatian politics a place where honest and honorable men and women do only one and only one thing, reflect on the well-being of Croatian people and all people living in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6489	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of whom the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6490	Here we are today discussing two of our colleagues we are taking immunity from, and, of course, our colleague Grmoja mentioned this part, and here on behalf of the board, a colleague also said that their freedom is being taken away from them, and of course one elemental question is being raised here, first of all, since the majority of 76 is solid, the way the majority vote is being voted, I think it's a legitimate question for us fellow MPs and the functioning of HS because the parliament works on most. At this point, I don't know how tomorrow if there's a vote, if it's possible whether there's going to be a way of working on a videolink... historically from a prison, this is a historic event like the other day our colleagues who did it from their homes because they were infected by a coronary virus or are self-insulated. Of course, at this point, we should think about it most of the time because simply when I remember last term, it was all based on chips and chips. I, as the man that was also being discussed here, not by the State's Attorney's office, but by the private immunity suit, was then asked to remove my immunity in the INA case. I've been sued by a former HDZ president in the INA case, and I've asked that immunity be removed and that someone finally be convicted of all the corruption they've been robbing, here in the case of the INA that he's gone. Then 12 of my fellow parliamentary representatives, here with me are the two Roses and Nicolas, in fact Nikola was not in that term, we were the only ones who didn't want to change power. It happened for the first time that it was going to an extraordinary election. I prayed, here is the former justice minister to remove my immunity and finally condemn someone for the INA case, so that on international arbitration we would have justifiable reasons to ask for the damage done to the Republic of Croatia, even if I was convicted, anyone to be convicted, but you didn't agree to that either. Now that I look at everything together in the Republic of Croatia, I remember here local leaders, I also don't condemn or judge, but the fact that I'm not a judge nor, but when we talk about energy, then we always have to stop the wind of the "Winds of Dinara" that is poored, the area in which even the Padjans live... people of the Serbian National Minority, I don't even know if the coalition partner Milorad Pupovac then participated and stopped. I know we stopped it while we were able to do it, but Minister Coric signed it, and now that I'm going with Dinara and I'm losing my karst pastures nowhere, and I'm getting incentives. People who don't know how many cows have tits, I'll always say that because I'm sorry about my ending. Here's today's anniversary when Ratko Mladić struck towards Perchi from Vrlica, when he went major crimes against the Croats, Sinj, won Bran Peruća and when I remember those times as a 19-year-old and now when I look at this here when the doves were actually stopping towards the tanks and now when I look at this here, I get tired of everything that happened behind it, I was 18 years old soldier, so I'm fed up at a local level, for example. The car transport of Sinjski that I filed criminal charges for, the workers of the Dalmatian woman for which I filed criminal charges. But you'd be raising charges against me, those who robbed that people, and there's no problem with that, so I have those criminal charges from those who were against workers, workers. So the money for the weapons at that time that we're worth of gold, we're talking about the money from '91, now the ones who took that money and didn't bring it back to create their empires, there's no account anywhere, and as they're ruling that everything was fine, that it was all legal, that was the money from the earthquake of a million and a half marks, we were naked. When you look at all this now, then I don't realize that... today we're discussing concessions by discussing incentives, energy, discussing marine good by discussing it. How is it possible that in the Republic of Croatia we are now somewhere around 3 million 800 thousand inhabitants we have only, how is it possible that my Dalmatian Zagora is empty? How is it possible that Slavonia is empty? How is that possible? How is that possible? How is it possible that everyone was worshipping Eve Sanader? I don't mention him in a negative context right now, judge, I don't like him. When I get tired of these pictures and I get those pictures back, when you compare this diagram now, it's not surprising why young people leave, why fellow mayor Drnisha, Drniš is empty literally, there's no mouse, there's not very few people. I'm sorry, very few people, I've been visiting these villages, I know I've been working in Knin. But when I see these wind power plants and that wind, and I see all these local leaders and everything that's been going on, it means I've been in local politics for a long time, but I was more of an activist. That's what my colleague Bačić knows in the fight for maternity, the stationary, but everything was being destroyed, so everything was being destroyed in these areas, the resources were being taken, the factories were being given to individuals to which they would raise them to these loans, so everything was being destroyed, everything, absolutely everything. It's all filled with corruption, everything. And of course you're asking the question that we as Parliament and HS how much did we have that impact on it? I remember the last call, it seems to me that so many so-called. The chips, my colleague... you've been partying to Mayor Bandic seems to me somewhere I've seen a picture, how many of those chips he bought, so you know. And more honest with the election. The bridge had a chance and then it went to the elections and it affected the perception of young people, it influenced corruption. I'm not saying it affects, so that octopus affects it, people see it. Imagine if I approach HDZ now, so lock me up if I'm guilty, close, I won't talk, is it fair? Here I am voluntarily, so let one be less. But to approach under the influence of being squeezed, I can't shut it down like a man. I'm not saying it's someone's fault, there's a lot of people in prison more righteous than they give away free, so we have to think about it. But the general picture, the general picture of corruption, is catastrophic. And really now the question is, how will most of it work? How will most of this work? The majority's parliamentary representative can resign on his own, he doesn't have to be taken away, that's his mandate, so on his own. Tomorrow we have a vote on his exemption we have the majority, we will do it, but if there were tomorrow that vote is not working at this time by the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. And that's what the tribals would think about, so I hope there won't be any chips. And I would only end up saying that the Croatian Parliament is the one chosen by the people and that the arrogance of the executive government also affects our citizens, affects corruption, affects the view that, of course yesterday, the behaviour towards fellow Troskot where there were legitimate issues that would not have been corruption or the impact of European funds, I think it is a question quite legitimate, an attack and from the executive authority under the protection of the chairman at that time Gordan Jandrokovic is the same bad message, not bad, but a message that is disastrous. Of course we will support the removal of these two decisions made by MOST, by the board of directors, but once again, energy, wind power billion and kuna per year we pay subsidies to what took place during Milanovic's government, counterpart Bauk knows, it was at the last session, he was the minister, Vrdoljak proposed a billion and a half kuna of renewable sources later he in co-operation now with HNS. I don't wonder what JANAF is, it happened in JANAF, of course, it's a company run by, our company that's the founder's parliament, so it's failed INA, so it's teleopers. Look at the teleoperators, all the things our people have been creating for years, telecommunications, infrastructure went into foreign hands to manage this and to make the biggest profit and milk money out of our citizens' pockets, he was now the headmaster for a while, what was he? And those are the facts. And that's why we have empty Croatia, and that's what we Parliamentarians have to talk about and fight about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6491	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6492	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues here we have a report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission and, at first, to say that, of course, HDZ will, as it is on the committee itself, support this report here at the plenary session. This is certainly one difficult moment for all those who deal with politics because everyone suspects that something wicked has happened, that something illegal has cast a shadow on all politicians. I also fully agree here with my colleague Bul who said that we are not here to judge, that we are not judging anyone, that our independent bodies of the State's Attorney's office will eventually determine whether there is guilt or no guilt, but in any case, these proceedings are conducted when there are serious indications and when there are some serious doubts that they are going into such proceedings. And that's what really affects us. What we can perhaps say in my opinion at this time is that we must ensure maximum independence of both PNUSKOK and USKOK and DORH and the courts that they operate and work in a way that does not happen under any kind of pressure or such. We are witnessing that it has been known very often in the media to create the impression that something has been done, that something has been done illegal, and then it would have ended up actually different. So I think that not only the bodies, that not only us but we must create one environment in society, which is that we respect the presummation of the innocence that our Constitution has guaranteed, and that means there is no guilt, no one is guilty until the judgment of the competent court finds it. That's what I think is extremely important. We, here I can say, I was also a minister in the past government of the judiciary, what we were doing to just boost independence and efficiency, we solved a lot of things about the State's Attorney's Office, and we changed the Law of Criminal Procedure to speed up procedures because slow justice is actually an injustice. All of these things need to be resolved in one, in one effective procedure, and not to have the matter spread for years to determine whether or not something is or something is not because if it lasts for 10 years it's not good for the public or for people who are burdened by procedures but it's actually bad for everyone. We've been trying here in the last term we've secured space for USKOK, you all know that there's actually been public complaints about people sitting together with the files, the files are on the floor, we're doing this, we've solved this problem. Today the State's Attorney's Office actually has very decent rooms in which working conditions are much better than they were. We also changed the Criminal Procedure Act where we introduced certain institutions that speed up the process and which must and can lead to a faster solution to things. As far as this situation is concerned today, I really wouldn't go in there or have any knowledge of the details, it will be determined by the competent authorities in the procedures that this is before them, and as far as we're concerned, I think we should respect the presumption of innocence and continue in our work to strengthen the work of the judicial authorities in order to raise them to some much higher level because there have been a lot of words here, in fact, about some cases and problems that are related to the judiciary, and we can't say that there's not much standing. Therefore, here again on behalf of the HDZ Club, we will support this report with the fact that it would also not be good to be here because certain people come from certain parties, to throw shadows at those parties now because the act that has illegally committed is an individual, not committed by the party, it is not on behalf of the party, but it is always the work of the individual and in this way things need to be evaluated and if the court decides that something has happened, but in any case it is not the party's work, but if it is something, it is actually the works of individuals who have their names and last names. Here's the HDZ club that supports this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6493	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. One of the more difficult tasks of the Assembly's representative is when it must talk about the point of the report, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, where it is mentioned about the initiation of a criminal proceedings, and it is even more difficult when it comes to granting approval, as it states in the decision to deprive freedom and the determination of an investigative prison, although it is decided by the Court. I should like to apply for the deprivement of liberty, so I would like to ask the MIP to make a little adjustment in the next case. So, in addition, it's even more difficult to speak when you have to talk about the initiation of a criminal procedure, the deprivement of freedom, and it's also about a member of your party. It would be easier if it were just two HDZ colleagues, but that's not the case. I am pleased that those clubs, representatives of parties whose representatives on this occasion are not covered by the DORH proposal, as well as those whose representatives covered by the DORH proposal mentioned several postulates on which the constitutional order rests. One is certainly often abused, but it is still impossible to avoid the presummation of innocence, the other is certainly what Mr Dretar said on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club that our colleagues who will likely be removed from immunity tomorrow will have opportunities to defend themselves as all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The SDP representative club has always approved and voted in favour of such MIP proposals, i.e. before the foundation of the DORH and USKOK demands, and we will do so this time. We had reservations after certain mistakes in the case of determining the detention of one representative, so we pulled it a little manually, but here as we now see from the documents at least to launch a criminal procedure there is no reason to doubt the independence of the institution. And as for the determination of detention, each of us may have a certain question as to whether it is necessary or not, but it is decided by the court. If we were to come into a situation now that we were politically arbitating whether or not we should decide the court in one way or another, we would not go beyond our powers, but we would cross the border of fine conduct and trust in courts. I remember in 2008, the only time the Parliament did not approve of detention was in Branimir Glavas' case, in 2008, the parliament rejected the DORH's request for war crimes. This is usually a much lighter act than it is a war crime, but in those 12 years, we've made little progress, so we don't miss this kind of thing by political arbitration anymore. As for the political consequences of these decisions, I don't think there's much fear. If you talk about Mr Barisic, he is the mayor and if the parliamentary majority is questioned, he will probably put his parliamentary mandate on hold, pay will be paid in the city, 6 months can be returned, he will probably end up in custody by then, he will be replaced and that is it. So, there wouldn't be, that logic requires that nothing will happen, although it sounds like a nice vote at a distance from Remetinco because in order for our rules that he had to go into self-insulation he could vote even from Remetinca it seems to me because of the covid. So they're political sequences that aren't going to happen anyway, they're hot for the press column to be filled in for a few minutes in the journal, but I don't think anything's going to happen. On behalf of the SDP, I would like to emphasise once again that we fully support the work of independent judicial institutions. The criticisms that we had especially on the former chief state attorney history has shown that we weren't exactly wrong, they were said to make these institutions better and more independent. Since the arrival of the new state attorney, we haven't had any criticism of the work of a state attorney for now, and what we have will be able to say in a parliamentary debate on the report by the attorney general. I hope that our colleagues to whom these requirements apply, and especially to their party colleague, will be able to challenge with their defence the charges charged, if that fails, he will be punished as would any other citizen of the Republic of Croatia. According to my conclusion, tomorrow, given that no regular vote has been announced, our MPs will certainly attend the vote in the largest possible number and will support these decisions of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6495	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Tomasevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6496	As far as the Green-Left Block Club is concerned, we will, of course, support tomorrow during the vote the removal of immunity to all who were today and who asked the DORH to remove immunity through the MIP and we consider it to be the most normal practice even though we are new representatives and I don't think we have anything to doubt here, whenever the DORH is looking for something like that, the MIP should vote on it as a whole. However, I wanted to say a few more things about this case, I think, of course, with all the suspicions of innocence, not the DORH, not the BOOK are not a hobby club, nor do I think that investigations are going out of joke, but only when there are serious doubts and indications of committing serious crimes. So from that perspective, we're going to see what the political consequences will be, we're going to see how the investigation goes, we're going to see how, if there's a trial going on. However, I would also like to say that as far as Drazen Barisic is concerned, in particular, this situation that has been sought and investigated, there are 3 options, one of these colleagues has already mentioned Bauk. So either he's going to give, in fact, or he's going to put his mandate on hold, and then I believe that most of them, that his place is going to be replaced, the new HDZ agent, and most of them are going to stay stable, or for some reason maybe they won't do it, and then there are, as far as I know, two options. One option is for the prime minister to fix the majority with some new chip, and the other option is to wait for the actual prison investigation and to continue voting in HS only afterwards. I don't think either of these other options would be good for HS either. And as far as the second option for HS is concerned that already after, watch out we're a month and a half we've got a convocation of this assembly and we're already in this situation that, not once, not two, but three parliamentary representatives are removing immunity. I don't have a lot of parliamentary training, but tell me is it quite common in HS in all these years that after a month and a half for two cases of three parliamentary deputies we're removing immunity and what does that mean for the general dignity of HS? I repeat, with all the presumption of innocence, neither the DORH, nor the UskoC, are a hobby club that is thus asking for arrest and looking for an investigative prison for two parliamentary deputies. So I also think that everyone has to wonder where it's going. And then also when we talk about this third parliamentary representative means Darko Puljasic, I have to admit it's all legitimate and legally possible, but I'm also surprised at HDZ because the man had the indictment in January, you put him on the list, he was confirmed the indictment in July, and now his immunity is lifted. So in the first month and a half, we're calling a meeting to him now, and here tomorrow we're going to vote on removing his immunity. I'm saying, it's legitimately your right to go to that political risk, but I hope that there are political responsibilities and there should be political responsibilities, and that's something we're going to ask the prime minister for, so we'll see if he has this arrogant smile, which is cynical because he's also the one who decides on election lists at all risk of what happens after, what happens to the investigation, what happens to court proceedings. So it's the same thing you'd like regardless of what you said to your colleague that every name and name should be held accountable for it, not by parties, but I think your party is also at trial and has a charge, not just members of your party. So this is not something I thought we were going to do in the first two months of the assembly, but obviously we're going to have to do tomorrow, and I really talked about it yesterday in different debates and public enterprises, especially the way public enterprises are managed and again, at the state level, at the local level, I think it's really high time to stop it, and then we, as a council, need to bring in some structurally obvious new solutions to reduce this risk of corruption, especially when I work, when we talk about managing public enterprises. In this case, whatever or in other cases, we have as many practices as you want. So here, I'll go back to these three options. I hope it will be as counterpart Bauk says, which obviously now fully depends on fellow parliamentary representative Drazen Barisic whether he will submit that request for a term in office or not. And if he won't, then that's what was expected, I said this morning, if he won't, then we have this second or third option, none of them are good for HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6497	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, so the Honorable representative of Nikola Grmoy will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6498	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we can talk about our colleagues who are being removed from immunity, determines the detention of the two, means Mayor of Velika Gorica and means fellow SDP counterpart Grgic. And we can also talk about when it comes to corruption, we can talk about corruption and collect corruption. What are these people if this is really about corruption, so we should always have a certain parentheses, that's what the former minister and colleagues were talking about before me about, but if it's about corruption, what did these people get, and did they get anything from their political groups? I think that in this debate, I must make it clear that HDZ last year received 8.2 million kuna from donors, and that among the 3 biggest donors or the second largest HDZ donor is the party mentioned, the company mentioned in this affair, that is Elektrocentar Friday from Ivanić City with 80,000 kuna donations to HDZ, the largest Vindija that has donated, the largest donor of 100,000 kuna and Lana Karlovačka printer 39,000 kuna. It's not here and it's not just about individuals, it's about a corrupt network that has obviously the fingers and the ones that have the most power. And that's a fact. 2 HDZ deputies, 1 SDP representative, means parties that actually hold the most cities and municipalities in Croatia. HDZ is a party holding most of the counties in Croatia that acts as government in the state, has the ruling majority here in the Croatian Parliament, has its own government. And in this affair, we have a party representative who played a key role in overcoming the last Plenkovic government when Plenkovic lost the ruling majority, and when I claimed there was a local election that HNS would join the coalition with HDZ then Ivan Vrdoljak said that I was a liar, that I was a dentist Zeljke Markic and so there were all kinds of accusations. It turned out to be true. And it's interesting that, as some MPs called it an anti-natural fornication or marriage between HDZ and HNS, it was very much related to these energy interests, something about these energy interests was said by colleague Bulj about the winds, but there was JANAF, and there was INA, and we know what's happening now with the mammalian refinery, which is and what the role of JANAF is in all this. And when you spoke to your colleague Bulj about the wind plants and who lobbied in the assembly you mentioned a colleague of the Pupovec, he personally lobbyed with me, personally, a colleague of Pupovac for the Krš Padjen project, himself. And that, look at which combination of Millian Brkic and Milorad Pupovac both stopped me in the halls of Parliament why our people at the Ministry of Environmental Protection block Krš Padjana, I said these are people who do everything by law, I have nothing to do with it. Even Miljan Brkic was something like that, he was something, he meant to me such a more interesting type means he was even funny so he said you MOST-sheeps create problems around some birds there give it, give it to bats don't hitchhike it anymore. But I didn't hitchhike anything, nor should politics get involved in it, but apparently some people think differently and that's the problem. And it's not just that I often criticize and attack HDZ, but we see that the situation is no better meaning when we talk about these left parties, we and these new political groups, attack the Matta of Rome, which today is planned to take over Bugatti, but Tedeschko is not mentioned by colleagues Tomasevic and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6499	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I couldn't replicate my colleague Tomasevic, so I decided to use this institute to answer that DORH and USKOK are not hobby groups. You know, in the last four hours, we've been discussing we're going to remove the immunity of Ivan Pernar because of the graphite on the trafo station. So I wouldn't idealize the DORH, not the BOOK, but the fact is that this acceptance of their proposal is also one expression of the minimum or more than the minimum level of trust in them. Because if we didn't really trust the DORH and the SCOCK, then this would be a debate about them, and not about our colleagues, and they would say they're politically abusing their own, their power in hearing who they're already listening to, but that's not the case. Therefore, there is no automation, there is a certain level of trust that is sufficient in this case and in similar cases because they have convinced us in previous cases to give this first level of trust that some colleagues to whom the Constitution has guaranteed immunity have been guaranteed, and the people have chosen to carry out the procedure. And that's where you'd end up. So every time there's another case, imagine what it would look like to argue that the different party composition of this composition of colleagues who, which the DORH suggested or imagine a hypothetical situation is that this week that two of them are then one of ours, that would be a lot, a lot of this different debate. But time has taught us that we don't have that kind of cheap political debate anymore, and that's why I wouldn't idealize the BOOK or the DORH in that case, especially I wouldn't idealize politicians, but let's just say that legendary line of politicians you love very much, let the institutions do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6501	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6502	So I would tell my colleague Bauku that the parliamentary representatives, the public figures of this politician Mesic mentioned me, personally sued me, I now have a preparatory hearing soon so that all those who were his advisors from our parliamentary representative Marija Petir to Bozinovic, Tomislav Karamarka, I will invite everyone to testify to my thesis. So, but we Parliamentarians, we Parliamentarians bear responsibility and sometimes we have to be brave. I've got a number of criminal charges, from a number of people for protecting someone and it's now something that hasn't been removed immunity in case Karamarko sued me, hasn't been taken off, and I've asked him to take it off, it's in the case of INE, so we're ourselves in such a position that we have a number of meanings and not exactly conveniences and negativity, because I have a number of criminal charges, so here's the lawsuit that I'm going to go to first. The hearing, therefore, is for my parliamentary representatives. [[Thank you very much.]] We bear and risk.../Speakers speak at the same time./... institutions let them do their job they will still.../The speaker does not understand. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6503	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6504	Yes, it is always a matter of balance between freedom of speech and responsibility for a given one. So the MPs only have the microphone and this sound and the ones that transmit, especially the opposition, to express a certain attitude and to answer for it. And when they say that, and when it comes to ordinary citizens, so someone, as they call it, is "snaps" then the parliamentary representative is very much ahead because he has every day a pay phone, a microphone, and a media audience compared to an ordinary citizen. And as for politicians, it should remain in words, very rarely with lawsuits, and even if there is an apology or if it comes simply to make peace and to realize that it was a misunderstanding to drop the charges, to make up and go for coffee. It doesn't matter who pays, old brother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-17-0.u6505	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met, and that will be tomorrow. We will continue our work tomorrow on Friday 18 September at 10.00, I repeat in the 10.00 vote on reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and afterwards with a debate on the point, and the point will be the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Integrated Access to Security, Protection and Services at Football matches and other sports events, second reading, P.Z. No. 17. Have a nice evening. MEETING Interrupted at 6:55 p.m. And as I have announced, we will now cross the name of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives or Independent Representatives, and the first one will speak on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement for the Honorable Representative Karolina Vidović Kristo. Here you go.
