ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184614	So let's now go to the first item of the agenda that is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on Special Tax on Coffee and Alcoholic Drinks, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 828 The applicant is the Government on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation. Dear Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Zdravko Maric, please. Now come in, colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184615	President-in-Office of the Assembly, I request a break from, for 10 minutes, for further consultations regarding this law. And here I would once again point out that it is unacceptable to turn away from the procedure, the usual procedure of the work of the Croatian Parliament as we have today. The agenda item that began to be discussed yesterday had to be discussed today, it simply had to be discussed and you had to find a way and a representative of the government could be here. After all, Mr. Maric is a representative of the government, so he could actually be the government's representative. On the other hand, I have to point out that I have a strange situation here, we have a credible SDP which is a globalist party today, so the party that still has sympathy for the five-point star, has sympathy for the other Tito, with the memory of Yugoslavia and according to that, they are also for the more liberal abortion. However, on the other hand, we have one hypocritical HDZ, Plenkovic's HDZ, I must say, which is declared a party of Christian Democrats, who do not want to, who do not want to pass the law in accordance with With what they declared, they don't want to pass the law. [[Intruder: colleague Zekanovic, colleague Zekanovic, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184616	Comrade Zekanovic, stop. You have no right, so you're just not going to decide, I'm the chairman, and that's the right and the obligation I have here in the Rules of Procedure to protect the Rules of Procedure. So you used this break to talk about something that had nothing to do with these agenda points. So, the break is required on the agenda point, and it's clear in the Rules of Procedure, and you're talking about something that has nothing to do with it. So, I can't let you do this because I would violate the Rules of Procedure and please, if you want to continue to stick to the agenda point and be correct and correctly interpret the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184617	So, President-in-Office, you have one dot on what I'm saying for the reasons that it bothers you obviously, it bothers you, it hurts you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184618	My colleague Zekanovic, now I'm giving you a warning, now I'm going to give you another one. It doesn't matter if you did. Comrade Zekanovic, I'm giving you a second warning... Because you're violating the Rules of Procedure... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] No, I don't let anyone break the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] A fellow Zekanovic about what is true is neither you nor I specifically speak as a believer we need to know that very well. Come on, now, sit down, you've got two warnings, and don't let me take your word for it. I don't have any dots on you or anyone else, but I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure, and you're breaking the Rules of Procedure on purpose, systematically, every day. So I ask you not to do this, and you speak the truth at the points where the agenda is, you speak in front of the assembly, you speak in free speech today, you have free speech for 5 minutes, you can speak whatever you want, and I have never interrupted you during, no, no, when you speak, when you speak in accordance with what is provided for by the Rules of Procedure, you speak very freely, very critically, sometimes by me and you cross what is fine, but I do not interrupt you. So please just stick to the Rules of Procedure. Do you want a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184620	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184621	Well, then I'd like a break by 9:55. [[It's 9:00.45.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:59 A.M.]] We continue to work, so I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, the respected Zdravko Marić, to give an additional explanation of the proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184623	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Very short, therefore, the law amending and supplementing the Law on special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages was adopted at the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament on 29 November 2019, entered into force on 1 January of this year. The law requires the adoption of a regulation on a specific tax on non-alcoholic beverages and the preparation of a proposal for a Regulation and communication with non-alcoholic drink producers, it is observed that there are doubts about the definitions of the subject matter of taxation. In order to remove all doubts, this emergency procedure is proposed for the adoption of laws which determines precisely and unequivocally the subject matter of taxation, in particular in art. 7. The precise method of determining the amount of the tax liability where the combined volume is expressed in a hectolitre of non-alcoholic beverages and the proportion of sugar, methylxanthin and taurine and the method of calculating the size of the components for calculating the specific non-alcoholic drink tax will be regulated by the regulation already mentioned. According to the draft regulation, some non-alcoholic beverages, of course, if they have a smaller share of sugar, could also be cheaped and those who have a larger share of course and collect. In any case, it will all be exposed to the public because it is ultimately a plan to go with the regulation first into public consultation before the very formal procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184624	We have five replicas, the first colleague is Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184625	... So a very short exposure, but in these large circles of tax reform, you see you forgot to explain precisely, you need to tax, they're so-called. taxes on sin, so more sugar, alcohol this, what, we understand that, but why do you tax coffee? [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Why are you taxing coffee? Well, that's what people have been drinking for centuries, so you're saying we've charged citizens with a salary of 9 billion kuna, it's not true because EUROSTAT, the European Statistical Agency shows that the tax press is the highest in the EU, you have revenues from coffee of about 130 million kuna a year, so don't stop it when people sit down to drink that coffee will be bitter because you're now giving them extra taxes, you cut that tax, we change Croatia's bid to cut the tax on coffee. Sugar and this rest we understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184626	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184627	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here I will understand this question of yours or some replica as a suggestion that we will consider in any case as well as a number of other proposals that we have heard in the Croatian Parliament, we have already discussed on several occasions and internally at the government level but I would take the opportunity not to accidentally lead to a small delusion as was the case when amendments and additions of this law were discussed or discussed within that IV. a round of tax reform since the law also includes coffee and non-alcoholic beverages. Intervention in the law since the end of last year and in these now proposed changes is exclusively for non-alcoholic drinks. The specific specific tax on coffee is practically at the same level and in the same form and form for more than two decades and was not intended to enter these changes into this problem, so regardless of what is in the title of coffee, there is actually no talking about coffee in these changes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184628	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184629	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, thank you for the clarification because it was indeed in the debate in this legislative proposal on this matter. In fact, somehow the public gets the impression that the last time you explained it, today you didn't say that the intensity of this law is to worry about the health of citizens, right, then people rightly say that the Ministry of Finance doesn't care about our health because when the tax comes, then our regular pressure increases. So you need to think about this, it's not good, it's also in accordance with the Road Safety Act, where alcohol is one of the biggest road murderers, so why would we make this law say, cedevita and coffee expensive in a kuna cafe and a half to two kunas? About that, you said well, you should take care of the tax on coffee, really coffee brings people together, coffee people drink because it's for society and you need to think about it, and as for these non-alcoholic drinks with a large share of sugar, it bothers me that they're here and syrups because I see that syrups are practically thrown out a few more and buys them and what I'm saying is a specific question, why would basage juice be the subject of taxation?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184630	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184631	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here, and thank you for the replica, because I have to explain again, once again, so coffee doesn't change anything at all in terms of taxation. You mentioned the specific and cedevita, of course, is not ours now to advertise or not, but cedevita has a specific food supplement status, so it's also not covered by this law, however, in any case, we've talked about it many times already, not only this health aspect, we look at the fact that the specific tax on non-alcoholic beverages is two and a half decades, so 25 years in force the same, 40 kn per hectolitre, and we said at the same time that we're going to modernize it in terms of taxation and make a certain difference, so let's say the comments of the industry that it sweetened the exclusions from taxation, you mentioned syrups, syrups not, syrups remain, but I guess that you thought of nectar, so those who have a larger share of fruit, natural fruit inside, according to that percentage, will be special thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184632	Thank you. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184633	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, very briefly, I think we're just making up for what we talked about last year and the meaning of this law that actually has a double effect, is one of the larger taxation, meaning higher incomes but also potential cost reductions if we know how many diseases are caused by the very consumption of sugar, from obesity to diabetes, etc. And one is a health aspect. What my colleague said about syrups, it certainly matters that syrups are in there, because theoretically you have a lot of juices that come into the syrup, and they mix with water and CO2 so they have to be syrups there because they're from the machines that they would say, so it's good that we showed with this that every law is subject to change, and it's being monitored, and that nothing is carved into stone. So everything that's good can always be improved, and especially what's failed to fix, and I think we're going to get a good law that needs to go one step further in education and prevention, of course, for the health of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184634	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184635	Thank you very much for your repatriation, so we're also getting attached to the previous ones, but I think we're all kind of taking advantage of the opportunity to talk about this subject publicly and in some way rightly identify which are key, the main reasons. So, we are on several occasions and today we are working and conducting a continuous dialogue with industry representatives because in all of this, of course, and the health aspect, we must in no way ignore the budget, but it is equally important in some things even more important in this economy. And we must not ignore the fact as when we have talked many times and about other special taxes and excise systems that the Republic of Croatia has the longest limit, the physical limit with non-EU countries. And that when I say we are not just talking about some kind of illegal transfer of goods, but also legal amongst other things and certainly from that prism we should look at why this work after the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law to a regulation that I would already say at a more advanced stage, I am sure that ultimately will not lead to some major earthquakes on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184636	A colleague of Vlaovic's will be yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184637	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with Associates, here is thanks for having the Government and you worry about the health of our citizens only they say don't worry about us anymore with the increase in taxes and the collection of Croatian agricultural products. Why am I saying that? Because the legitimate thinking of citizens that this tax pressure through an increase in prices is on sugars, coffees and other food supplements will not reduce the intake of these products into our household but should be done through lifelong education, through continuous education on nutritionism because here are many developing countries such as Denmark have given up this tax pressure because they have not delivered results in a public health sense. And secondly, how do you comment on the economy's fear that this tax will spill over like a purchase across the border, because already over 400,000 kunas leave our citizens in BiH daily because these products are cheaper there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184638	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184639	Thank you, well-respected Replicator, you are also very much a subject, I will hardly include everything in one minute, but above all, as far as agricultural products are concerned, you know well that we have discussed these four rounds in the Croatian Parliament, mainly about that part of VAT that may be more unrecognizable, but at the same time a whole series of other changes that have just been made and loved, therefore for the benefit of agricultural producers. You remember well and you know that it was actually the contribution of government proposals, and eventually the Croatian Parliament voted through the reduction of VAT rates just from the input of agricultural production of livestock to certain outputs whether we talk about fresh meat, fresh fish, fruit, vegetables, whether we talk about eggs, live cattle, etc. As far as cross-border trade is concerned right here on and the previous replica I have apostrophysed we are taking care of it, so some extreme procedure like this is certain that it could open up and therefore we have decided among other things on this principle and we believe that there will be no major tremors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184640	And my colleague Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184641	Thank you very much. Ministers of Taxation, meaning non-alcoholic drinks that have sugars, of course it's not healthy in large quantities, but here I don't know how you're going to define OPG producers who traditionally produce an example of blackberries, drenin, baggs, cherry juices and want to place it on the market. Whether to declare it essentially in that way, that it will be tax-based or it will be some kind of perk, I mean the perks, allow them to be competitors on the market. Is the fact that these import products that go through.../incomprehensible/... that 90% of these are lies and deceives that it has to do with nature and that they are in that percent at all. How, in fact, to bring into an even position of our producers who are very few left unfortunately, which products mean juices, natural syrups, how to protect them by this law to be competitive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184642	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184643	Thank you very much for your rep, also a very good and useful question, so let me get this straight. So we're talking about this segment of nectar, so natural juices, so with a stake, a high share or a 100% share of fruit, so here in terms of this law, so nectars are defined in separate laws, and in terms of this law, which defines a specific tax on non-alcoholic beverages, I think that it can be seen very clearly and read from the law, and then also from the regulation that I would say it doesn't sound nice and privileged status, but ultimately it won't be taxed. The greater the share of nectar in terms of fruit share, the less the specific tax, if the 100% share of practically specific tax is not available then, but in any case it was some urgency that through this graduation, the combination of fixed part in terms of equal for all combinations with this variable part depends on the proportions of these sugars and other ingredients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184644	I thank the minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I open the debate and the first is the respected Goran Beus Richembergh on behalf of the GLASs Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184645	Dear President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister with Associates, we have a brief text in front of us a little shorter than it was just an explanation and it would be said at first sight a benign thing or what the promoter would say is nomotechnical harmonisation. But it's not exactly like that. These changes explain something introduced into our tax system relatively recently, which proves that when it comes to us it is a primitive tax society. In fact, by looking through the prism of tax policies, we can generally divide societies into those that are progressive, proactive and primitive. What's the difference? Special taxes or excise duties in progressive open societies never serve to fill fiscus holes, and this is also the case when it comes to excise duties on cigarettes and on coffee and on alcohol and now on non-alcoholic drinks. We're just practically pouring money into the state budget, we're parallel to a story that sounds very nice, and that's to worry about citizens' health, and that's actually a hollow phrase, that's pure hypocrisy. The fact is that these days we also had the opportunity to hear about the day before yesterday's Anticancer Day that we have an incredibly large impact on other EU members on the pain of various types of cancers, the fact that it is still the cause of the high mortality of the cardiovascular system, is also the fact that Croatian citizens are classified among those nations that are considered the most burdened by obesity and result in a whole range of risks and a whole series of consequences. There has been almost no government since Croatia which has not spoken of taking special care to improve citizens' health by suppressing these poor figures in statistics that we are really at the start of the EU or in a negative sense at the top. It would all make sense, and it would make sense to each other if we knew exactly what the effects of this law are, that's what we say to law proposals when intervened in excise policy are always missing. What exactly does that mean? How much will the funds be raised and how, how will we purposely spend these funds? Have you ever heard from the promoter, and I think that here with the finance minister in this sense he had to sit and the health minister, that he would be launched in the next period a series of public health actions aimed at just suppressing obesity, addiction to alcohol, addiction to nicotine and all the consequences such as cardiovascular disease, high pain to cancer, etc. and that these public health actions we know about or at least expect to produce a certain social positive effect have cost us so much and so much that we need to make money with special taxes on cigarettes, on sugars, on alcohol and possibly coffee. We've never heard of that. That's why this is a hollow story. So we're raising funds to the state budget that will go to the recovery of debts from the health system that have risen to 9 billion and 400 million kuna. So none of this kuna will be used to really improve the state of the nation's health, but to solve the accumulated problems that are otherwise not structurally solved. And that's the truth. If we had the information we're missing here, if we recognized behind this the real intention of the government to deal with these problems, then it would make sense to discuss whether a certain percentage of the cost-of-charge calculation, and we heard that, determines by a special government regulation, and we don't have access to that decision, then we could talk about whether it's too small or too small. Just a few days ago, it seems to me that the start of the National Programme for control of lung cancer on big bells has been announced to me, still the doctors of family medicine have no information, and they shift the responsibility of the election and the recommendations that citizens will be going to search for, are primarily about the 50+ target, so they still have no basic information on how they will do so, who will appear and when the programme will indeed begin. If we were to look back for three years, what the health resolution did on this matter would result in defeating results. The national programmes declared in principle shall not be implemented at all, and the funds shall be allocated to that effect. This is the most controversial of all, the fair government would approach this problem differently, make a thorough analysis of the law that treats specific taxes and define, perhaps not all, but what part of the income goes for and what, so that we know when consumption is already burdened, because this is tax consumption in the end, that we know where these funds are going and what we want to achieve, and not that by constantly covering the nation's health care story, we pour new funds into the state budget that then end up in a health system recovery, which, of course, since structural changes are not there, is encouraged to continue to generate losses because the state budget will cover it in one way or another. That's not good. Among other things, this law introduces one new thing, and this is a tax on all energy drinks because these drinks contain taurine. Thus, it is necessary to punish, say, drivers who reach for an energy drink in order to maintain their concentration and safety in driving. And those drinks are together otherwise, now they're gonna pick up even more. Is it good to destimulate those who use sugar sweeteners instead of artificial sweeteners? This law makes them even, and on the one hand, we say that the nation's obesity is a problem. So are we not aware that diabetics are using these products right now, are we not aware that people who have a problem with obesity in programs that involve a child or a change in diet reach for sweeteners instead of sugar and then how we stimulate people to live a little healthier, although there are, of course, studies that say that even sweeteners are not healthy, but of course they are in great proportion to what they claim to be about how unhealthy sugar is. So I'd like to know what the Department of Health's position is about this and the experts. Finally, these changes and additions will bring nothing but price increases, nothing else, nor will concrete public health programmes and national campaigns be financed. When was the last time you saw a national public health campaign on TV? Never. It never happens, and that's what the Ministry of Health is responsible for. They are the ones who need to create such public health programmes, propose them for funding from the state budget, and the key source for funding such public health programmes must be excise duties because the purpose of their introduction and collection is precisely to remedied from these funds the consequences of excessive or inadequate consumption of certain elements in products that cause pain. And as long as that hasn't been resolved, as long as we don't have a clean situation, this is all actually a story of whether we're going to pick up a kuna or two, but it's not good. We Liberals always oppose new commitments, especially when there is no excessive story behind it, and on the other hand, we, on the other hand, praise the stability of our fissus, healthy finances, balanced budgetary policy. So why do we reach out to new solutions that actually mean extra taxation? As long as we don't see a clear story behind it, as long as we don't see clear arguments, we can't be in favor of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184646	Let's go to another club of HDZ MPs, respected colleague Grozdana Peric
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184647	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected Minister Maric and his associates. Here is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Tax on Coffee and Alcoholic Drinks. Introductoryly, the HDZ Club will, of course, support these changes, making more of what is seen from this system and the law that has been applied since 1.1 this year and the current changes, in fact, replaces the current system of the linear system of taxation of non-alcoholic beverages in this progressive for the reason that it was necessary to define certain exact items and markings which would be a precise definition of how they are taxed. A colleague mentioned here as he says here is a particular item and the importance of precisely these supplements such as taurine and methylxanthin, it is known that these ingredients are actually ingredients most often in energy drinks and they also serve as part of those bases that belong to the base for stimulating the nervous system. Normally, under these conditions, it is very important and careful to define which groups of these ingredients are entered and how the taxation system will then be applied. In the current law in Art. 4 it was very simple to define, so that is precisely this section 3 which says that ‘preparations based on essence extracts or concentrates or on coffee covered by CN code 210112’, so in this paragraph are now specifically defined from these tariff codes which are 2009 and 2002, and then further here is the list to which all applies. And what's very important is that in this way it can really define whether the proportion of alcohol is greater than 1.2 or 0.5 in these non-alcoholic beverages. It's the same. Article 2 or amended. 7 of the new law is actually now paying a special tax on the subject of taxation from art. Therefore, paragraph 3. which, according to the volume expressed in a hectolitre of non-alcoholic beverages and according to the sugar content of so-called methylxatine and taurine, is also, what the minister himself mentioned, is very important to say that in this way all those juices containing more fruit content are, in fact, their percentage and percentage share of fruit in this way are reducing taxes, which are directly in this way actually an impact on the stimulation of all of us and in a health sense that uses natural and more quality juices and may be the ones that harm health, which in fact stimulate and otherwise damage the nervous system. In this way and in this law now, as already said, there were no percentages and burdens on coffee, only in fact this law contains in its name and a special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages but I say, in this part, that part of the tax burden and change does not really happen. So this way, the amendments to this law are set up and achieves one precision and simplicity of the norm and in this way it is actually much easier to define to each producer in which way and is obliged to pay the tax. It is also important to say that otherwise all systems and all states, just as the colleague said, progressive strong accounting and, in fact, have progress precisely in those ingredients that harm health according to this, this is very quality defined in this way and it is not true that progressive states do not do so. However, it is in the interest of all of us to be alerted right now through the tax system and in this way we must take care of our health together, and as regards the very impact and resources that are collected in this way in the state budget, surely that even so far the measures that have been taken and taken in various areas, will also be used to create even better conditions for many actions and many prevention programmes, besides, we are a country that has done very much in this regard in preventing breast cancer, in preventing the colon, in preventing all other diseases from doing so, this is a way to safely contribute to further development and care for health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184648	Thank you. Before the next debate, let's all welcome together the students and pupils of the High School in Marushevec with the right of the public, welcome. Now it is time to change Croatia, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, here you are. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184649	Thank you, honourable chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected students, students, high school students, and I especially welcome you fellow citizens. Otherwise I don't answer, someone would say "what are you doing because of these trivial topics, coffee and so on" but listen to the fellow citizens, the party Change Croatia is socially sensitive, we want to protect people who live from their work and these are the most difficult ones alive today, and today what every man wants to afford is to go for coffee, coffee, it's a medium of socialization, it's socialization, it's a little bit of people getting angry, it's just to get together, but what's happening now? You see, this government is constantly changing the tax system, every year a new round of tax reform, so it can't reform, you know what reform is, reform is something when it's made to last at least 10 years, but every year it's not serious, I'm not going to say circus, but it's not very serious. So even after three, four laps, we don't even know how much has been carried out anymore, here we are now having an emergency procedure that makes the bill come about special taxes on non-alcoholic beverages that contain means too much sugar, other substances, but there's also coffee because it's not clear now how it's going to be taxed. You see, I studied it, I took it here, first I welcome the taxation of too much sugared drinks, syrup, and I support it, we from the party change Croatia 3 years ago when I came to this Parliament, we suggested this, but there is something you see with a delay of one 3 years and comes and adopts, but we will always welcome what's good. But not only sugar, you should have snacks, you see, everything that has too much salt, too much sugar, some drinks literally need to be banned from alcohol, there are no taxes for them, they need to be banned, but that Institute of Public Health has to play its key role because it is harmful, it is extremely threatening people's health. But where exactly did you get the coffee to be careful? Of course you said you wouldn't raise taxes, stay the same and pick up about 120, 130 million kuna a year for coffee. Well, that in the state budget is a marginal, insignificant income. So you say you relieve citizens and the economy, and on the other hand you take it out of your pocket and where you get coffee and that little pleasure to the citizens instead of being sweet coffee, you make it very hard on this special coffee tax. So why is that? This is the philosophy of the Croatian tax system that has been in place since the establishment of independence. What is she? She's a dear citizen, deeply unjust. Our tax system is socially insensitive, unfair. 25% of VAT on all products and pay services and that worker who gets 3,4,5 thousand kuna as well as the one who gets 15, 20,000 kuna, so that's deeply unfair, so that's where I should say, so besides being a politician alone and an economic expert, most of all VAT is bought not to say from the poorest of the most vulnerable, they pay the most. So they're at least making money, and most of them are taken through VAT, and that's the easiest way to tax. You come by to buy something from this guy at the cash register. He's paying 25%. There is no social justice for such a society was not killed by Croatian warriors and defenders, no, this was born into some Croatia that neither they nor we wanted. So social justice, progressive taxation must be the basis of every tax system, tax policy. Tax pressure in Croatia is unsustainable; we are among the two, three EU countries with the highest tax pressure, breast according to EUROSTAT data for the EU. The Party Change Croatia, by the will of the voters, if dear God will, to launch those 50% who do not go to the elections because my people have burned nails, has come to their mouths, please make them finally run because these are simply all delusions about the good economic situation. That's not true. The external debt is increasing, public debt is increasing, people are continuing to move out, and they say employment is increasing. Yes, our people's employment is increasing in Germany. So the Germans and Austrians see where our workers are going are actually solving the problem of huge unemployment in Croatia. And imagine how tragic this government boasts. So she says we're reducing unemployment by actually exporting her best workforce. Now let's go back to the subject of what it is. So, the tax system of non-alcoholic beverages with high sugar content, it's syrups, so it needs to be seen how to really encourage it then, there's already been speeches here, our OPG's natural juices to encourage small production, especially there in Slavonia. Croatia was ideal for organic production that they really, but they can't come and sell their products. Why? Because all the most important trade chains in Croatia are held by strangers. And these foreign trade chains in the last ten years haven't, dear citizens and here students listen to me, foreign trade chains in the last ten years haven't even paid a profit tax, imagine that, profit tax. And your parents, we and everyone else pay, Croatian companies pay, but foreign trade chains don't. And when we add to that the fact that 90% of banks in Croatia are in foreign hands, then we are dear colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens of a modern colony that works like that, and the task of this government is to represent the whole story as a new emperor's ruins. Therefore, it is the real truth in Croatia. So we have to finish the story, not just talk about coffee and taxes, we need to know what this tax system is for. So he degrades it, increases social differences in Croatian society, they are much larger. And then when the Kalashnikov is protected somewhere, then the whole of Croatia is shaking, you know. Now these are normal phenomena beware and Croatia is going in this direction. There will also be neighborhoods and skyscrapers where security guards will be kept who are far richer than in America, Mexico, Brazil, etc. This is the way these are going so far, and this government is going to create Croatia, and of course the economy is going to collapse. That's what I was talking about yesterday when the governor was here, who was really, really, I don't know what came over him yesterday, so he was all pissed off, he started belittling and attacking MPs, etc. Now, what I was going to suggest, so if we're criticizing something, here's the minister, it's good he always comes sits and listens and talks correctly, you see, Mr. Minister, we got 50 lips on a plastic bottle of someone coming back, and it's back in, and then, for the return of this one, you see when this special excise tax comes together that you want to drink a lot of sugar, we don't know where it's going to go. You can make a decision, actually the government that it will go in some tenth direction of some totally tenth purpose. We from the Party Change Croatia propose to know exactly that these additional taxes and excise duties will go I propose for health care, for health care and we know in advance that, for example in 2021, health care will get a health care system that is loosing so much and so many millions, hundreds of millions of special taxes, excise duties to resuscitate that system. So then we'll have a relationship we'll know the citizens why we're taking that special tax and where it's going. But, of course, someone will say what it means, which means when nine.5 billion kunas of unsettled health system obligations are there, and Mr. Minister, here you are, schooled, doctor of the economy, you didn't include that 9.5 billion in public debt as if you were going to pay for a foreign country, right, you didn't. So the public debt of Croatia is not 298 billion per official data, but increase by 9.5 and even more. So, you keep, and we're still not saying that you're not involved in public debt, let's say Zagreb Holding, that's another one by my estimate of 10-12 billion kunas because this city isn't minus a billion. The Zagreb holding is no capital you understand, his capital was eaten, I did a superficial analysis the other night it was just a failed thing. The citizens of Zagreb will still be attracted, and I am in Zagreb, because, watch out, Zagreb Holding and The City of Zagreb is a construction firm, and its mayor of the construction site and turned the whole city and holding it into a construction firm. Go to Jelkovac a couple hundred apartments, business spaces, garages staring empty, it doesn't matter he's moving on, but no one here is talking about it. Why? Because in the Croatian economy about real problems, they, they, they mean ideological issues are now elections in HDZ, so on and so forth, but dear citizens, I'm talking to you. I don't care if there's going to be two or 151 MPs here because you know that there's a voting machine here that only works on Fridays at 12 o'clock, that lasts one 30 minutes, 40 minutes and good-bye. So here to go back to this topic of taxation spending. Taxing consumption is the most unfair way to establish a tax system in some economy in a country. So I propose before the Party We change Croatia, so we have, our experts give quality, we give solutions, suggestions, of course we do not have a majority here, but if God wills citizens we will be part of the government and affect the improvement of life in Croatia in the next elections to finally send out of this assembly, from the political scene all the vermin that have already stayed here for years in various institutions, ministries, etc. and Croatia is pushing towards the bottom, it means it is in the last place in the EU. And here you see the other day a data was published, the EU Union Institute published the data the other day. That out of 28 EU countries 6 countries, in 6 countries workers are paid, the purchasing power of wages so-called. real wages are lower than 10 years ago, imagine. So the purchasing power of our salaries, and Croatia, in Greece, fell 15%, in Cyprus 6%, and in Croatia 5%. So that's the data. So our purchasing power pays from our man, a working man who fights for life, it's less than in 2010, and he's still getting extra taxes, taxes, taxes, excises this stuff, etc. But here's a suggestion. Increase the amount of non-taxable income or special deduction as you will from 4,000 that are miserable to 7,000 kuna, 7,000 kuna. Then you've solved, which, then, will become excess and that proposal that you adopted here to distinguish between young people from, up to 25, 100% of them don't have a tax, and between 25 and 30, watch 5 and 50% of them. So when you introduce 7-7,5,000, all equal. People will have much more available income in their pocket. Then they will be able to pay more expensive coffee if you are already introducing means special excise duties. So, in this assembly we have to hear the speech of the profession, this is the speech of the argument of the profession, this is not a hint. So let's start working in the citizens' interest that they feel, yeah, yeah, see, this is the tax system. The tax system that changes every year, such as in Croatia, it is unstable, will not come to any foreign investor because it sees a constantly changing tax system. So it's not weird because there's no development strategy, there's no economic policy, it's given up. All economic policy is focused on the European Funds, etc., the economic structure that has been deindustralisation is collapsing, there is hope, we still have enough quality and educated people, brave people who are able to fight for Croatian interests, but citizens need to recognise it in elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184650	We are now going to the 5th debate, respected counterpart Branko Hrg, HDS, HSLS and HDSB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184651	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, if I believed that a respected colleague of the Professor's. Lovrinovic does not understand this issue, I would then believe that he does not know that coffee is not covered by these amendments to the law. So, as the minister said in several previous replies to replicas, it is in the name and it has been this often mentioned detail amongst people, among the hosts why it is now going to tax coffee, so we all checked whether it is so, it is not, so it is not coffee, but it is convenient to fill the citizens like this, fill the people, scare them with such petty populist methods, but it is not necessary. So, no one even the strongest critics can say that the reform of the tax system in these four levels that were going on was positive and good, and even here in the assembly there are also MPs from the ranks of opposition often and commended certain moves of tax reform. We, as a club, will support these changes because they only explain what we have actually voted for. But what I'd like to mention here is the fact that in some way we're getting more, we have that consumption tax that the local self-government says and that now this tax that is already voted on, we're not going to ask any more questions about it, we're not going to question it, but he already is, so there's another consumption tax. The state by law allowed local self-governments not to charge consumption tax. This morning I checked with a small continental caterer who doesn't have a diet, so it doesn't belong to that category of VAT reduction but only has a drink, it's about cafes, it means rural space, two smaller cafes, 9-thirds of the employees of 3-3,500 paying taxes on consumption. If local self-government had abolished that consumption tax, and it is not a large income in local self-government units like this in rural towns, there is relatively little, let's say in Križevje it is some 140-150.000 kuna per year, given that the changes in the tax laws on fiscal decentralisation of the city get 16 million a year from the state budget of balancing, then I don't think it would be any problem for such cities and such municipalities to abolish that tax on consumption and enable those in need to be tortured to survive and to survive so that they can pay their own people. Let's say in this case, whoever pays 3,000 kuna a month on that tax, he could give for his nine employees, so 300 kuna to every higher salary, to keep people, not to run away from him, not to go away. So this is something that should also be taken into account in discussions in such taxes where consumption taxes are concerned. So this is one call to really local self-government those in particular in rural areas that have no large income from catering activities, to abolish those taxes, to bring them down to zero, and thus to help the survival of the caterers. The state made it possible because they have a range of how they can and the normal thing that it is in tourist cities a different story, there it is much bigger, there are restaurants that have restaurants that have reduced VAT, and then they are covered, so they have some relief on the other hand. The ones in the rural area who only deal with cafes don't have those reliefs. Here, we, as a club, will accept these adjustments and clarifications of this law because we have already accepted it at that stage of adoption itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184652	Now it is the Club of HNS Representatives and the esteemed colleague, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184653	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected ministers with their associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, so making a law that is at the beginning, although potential and indeed likely to bring higher taxes on certain products, especially those that contain sugar, is something that, when we look at the first one, is not in line with some of our tax cuts, however, should go a step further. It should be seen that the amounts of this tax collection are not so crucial, because, as the minister mentioned here, it is 40 kuna per hectolitre or 100 liters for non-alcoholic beverages with added sugars, for 240 kunas for syrups and certain concentrates for the preparation of the same non-alcoholic beverages or as much as 400 kuna per 100 kg for powders and granules made of just these non-alcoholic beverages. When it comes down to a liter of product that we buy, it's not that big of an amount that's about to be hit. But what is the main problem? We have to think about the health aspect here and I'm not, I don't agree with my colleagues or a colleague who said earlier that it won't have any effect because we can already notice that the market has reacted. How did it react? We have new products, non-alcoholic drinks that are now sugar-free or with a reduced sugar content that are even drastically, drastically reduced. So the market reacted and prepared itself. I don't want to advertise it right now, but you can really find a certain, certain range that has a significant, significantly reduced share of sugar, so from 11.4 to 2 per decigram or from 7 to 2 so, or even 0.9 where it says there's no added sugar just one natural from syrup that is. It's already here today. I believe it's also the result of this law and that ultimately, I don't think it's going to make anything cheap, but probably those who have a larger share will collect and thus drag our citizens away for the consumption of those same. And that's the main reason why this one, should be the main meaning and reason why this law is passed. Let me just say for a moment, we are among, according to some studies a few years ago, among the first five European countries, the number of children threatened, the first five. In Croatia, for children 8 to 9 years of age, 35% of them, so a third of children have overweight and obesity, 29% of children drink more than 3 times a week sugar-added juices and here's the devil, that we don't talk about all the diseases that come from obesity, especially one of the largest is of course diabetes, but that we don't talk about everything else and all the other consequences they have with it, and that must be the idea of leadership. This is where we arrange closer to what we brought in last year, the most actually here will depend exactly on the government's regulation that brings heights, the amount of these special taxes. What's left unclear to me in all of this and that would beg an explanation is when we're talking about drinks being treated as a food supplement. In my opinion, neither this mentioned powder that I have not heard the best health considerations should be in this tax, all of them, especially water with taste and added sugar which would not according to this law, and these waters range from 1.5 to 4.5 g. 100 ml each. Sugar, just to demystify, so, I mean, even though I can talk about stamps, so anyway, at the end of the day, when I was talking about those gassed, there are 11.4 new Sprites in Coca Cola. 100 ml, new boys 0.9 g. At 100 ml, these are the effects, let's say, Studena lemon 1.5 to the sensation of Jamnica 4.5, and now it's healthier to drink Jamnica with 4.5 g. sugar added than this Sprite? Now there you'd like, that food supplement to get a little closer to fix because things are simple, as much sugar, as much taxes, supplement or not add-on to the diet anyway because the Cedevita mentioned to me doesn't exactly belong to some food supplement and I don't know how much sugar there is in it and how much sugar there is going on, especially somewhere on some foreign markets, it needs to be seen. That's why I'd like it just a little bit, that part even closer to determining because I think it's safe except for me to think of a slight impact on, filling the budget, will have a much greater impact on deterring shopping habits and turning attention to those with less sugar, with less exposure and I don't say that those without sugar are much better, you can even be healthier or worse because who knows what we drink there and like sugar, but surely those with less exposure, that will be more attractive, that I'll be more interesting to the citizens to buy, and if the price and less will absolutely contribute to it, and that's all the sense we're doing here, let's slowly remove these monsters from the new age because we're growing standards, while we've been small we haven't always been able to have such juices in every house, they've been drinking, which is all the syrups, which is all we'll say thanks to God's much more, the standard is much more, and we'll be able to keep it'll be able to figure out with the money, so that we's, so we'll be able to get it'll be able to get it's, and we can's, and we can't we can't we can't we can't we can't we't we can't any of the money, so we can't we can't we can't it't we can't much more, we can't we can't of the money to get the money to get the money to get more of the money to get more of the money to get more of the money, so we can's, so we can't we can't we can's, so we can't we can't we can't we can't we can't we can't we can't have more of the right of the right of the right of the right of the money, we can't we can't we can't we can't we can't we can't we can', we can', we can', we can', we can', so we can', we can', we can't have more, we can', we can', we can', we can' Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184654	Thank you very much, let's move on, ahead of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, will speak Mr. Davor Vlaović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184655	Thank you, Vice-President HS, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with co-workers, regarding the proposal for a special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic drinks with the final bill of law, we should also say from the HSS that the laws that are passed here in HS are adopted in a way that are in practice enforceable, clear and unequivocal and here in the light of this law, the Minister of Finance is just saying that this law clarifies certain provisions in order to be easier to implement in practice and so that there are no doubts in application and that there is no double taxation, and here is the part that we welcome that it does not always turn out that HSS and I are criticising something, we welcome that the regulations go in this direction to be applicable and unequivocal in application, but what I would like to point out specifically with this bill that, first of all, on the whole-life education of our food products and the necessary products of our Bulgarian society are registered products. It is devastating that in the Republic of Croatia today there are 57.4% of adults and 34.9% of children who are overweight. What concerns me and us at the HSS is particularly concerned, which is the trend that in the last 12 years. The proportion of children with overweight and obesity increased by almost 15%, meaning lack of education, lack of media campaign from kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, and so on, that children are working on proper nutrition that is not good in this seating lifestyle and not engaged in sports and not moving, that this is the result that we also have an increased number of children with overweight but also in adults, an increased number of those who suffer from cardiovascular diseases, cancers and other problems associated with eating. So, we at HSS are that these problems are not solved by taxes and by increasing taxes by introducing new so-called. healthy taxes because these proposed laws introduce to Croatia these healthy taxes that want to encourage citizens not to buy such products with increased sugar, fat, tobacco, alcohol, but here are the results from other countries saying that this is not only tax-based but that it is precisely what we and I stress, education and continuous education, lifelong education of citizens in the direction of the need for healthy life and healthy nutrition because here. e.g. Hungary has a tax on bad food and sweet drinks. Bad food includes fast food, saturated with harmful fatty acids such as hamburgers, chips, sweets, chocolates and energy drinks. We already know that smokers and beer lovers, coffees, and heavy alcoholic beverages already pay special taxes or excise fees for their vices. Of which, last year, the state budget is a record 5.9 billion kuna if the exact data that we have and most of the excise duties on tobacco, as much as 4.8 billion kuna. Now the question that's already been said here, I repeat it, how do you spend that money? We don't have that information and it would be good if these new targets were spent through the Ministry of Health, through HZZ through actions that direct our young, our children, and all of us on the need for a healthy life, on education, which means if we buy such products, how it affects our health and how we feed. Experts who commented on this law say that none of the nutritionists would only suggest a tax on sugared drinks, they say, a populist, bare number of products has empty calories and these are not just fat, salty and sugary ones, many have little protein and a lot of fat and are constantly on action. There is an emphasis here and they are constantly on actions because these powerful companies are constantly advertising these products, they are constantly on actions and since our citizens have small salaries, small pensions, they are forced to monitor these actions and buy products at lower prices and not looking at the composition and what they contain and how it will affect their health tomorrow. This is why it is necessary to educate people to eat well, to eat what is healthy for them and often the countries and countries in the neighborhood go with broad campaigns that include the media, and we obviously lack it. So the first emphasis is first to educate and tax only in the end because in what way people react when the tax on a product is increased, when the price increases in retail so often they show up and buy some similar products, that is, the survey conducted by the European Commission has shown that often people buy other similar products and what I want to point out here is that how our fellow citizens react and the data we received from the BiH state bodies, that last year in BiH they submitted a request for around 520 million kuna tax returns because there are these products and similar products, agricultural and food products are cheaper up to 17% in BiH, which is why our fellow citizens are going over to buy and the result of these tax discharges and tax new burdens is that over 60 million kunas are more spent in 2019 than in 2018 alone in BiH. From this, here is the information that is particularly interesting, that more than 528 000 kunas a day Slavons leave in Bosnia's Posavina more than in 2018, about 26 million kunas. And be careful, this is not a total number because these are just data for which a request for VAT return has been filed and what they transfer in their car trunks is a lot more is not all the tax return request. So here's the question of ministers and associates, how this money is spent, and I said it's about 5 billion in the state budget of excise duties, whether it's used in public health education, actions to reduce the input of harmful products into the organism, and how they think, whether tax discharge is not just a burden to increase the home budget of our citizens, especially in Slavonia, because here, absurd is that the number of overweight is growing, it turns out that we live well and the greatest risk of poverty is precisely in those deprived areas of Slavonia, Baranja and Srem. So just once again appeal to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health, more education, more cooperation with fellow citizens, more care about our domestic producers and more marketing and media presence of our manufacturers in the media, in actions, not only to be on the actions of foreign products but to be the products of our OPGs and to be products from the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184656	Thank you, too. Now, in front of the SDP, Mr. Gordan Maras will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184657	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. When we talk about the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the law on coffee tax and non-alcoholic beverages, here on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, we can say that we are never happy with the increase in tax burdens, and especially when we talk about the area that has been taxed over the past years, and this is about catering activity, it is that unfortunately the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic when he came to opposition in 2016 immediately raised the VAT from 12% to 25% and brought on that side to the almost impossible position of many guests in the Republic who have been in a very difficult position for several years and I would say a positive swing from the tourist investment sector and brought everything under question. That this is how it was unnecessary in 2016 and the fact that the government of Andrej Plenkovic eventually gave up and that it returned the VAT rates that we believe should be further reduced. So on this side when we look at one of our most important economic activities and industry and when we see essentially Croatia being positioned in that market, we are absolutely aware of the need to further disperse the catering sector or tourism sector and try to do anything in our power so that people can invest and ultimately be more competitive on the tourism market which is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia. And now we are looking at a proposal that certainly, not only in the consumption of citizens, will have a certain negative effect but probably also in hospitality, although it is not about how large quantities, but any such measure that goes after a greater burden can hardly be supported by those consumables and caterers at the end of the day, should not be supported either by us here in the Croatian Parliament. And that's why I'm saying that before any such measure, especially since we expect next year, maybe the problem, or next tourist year, maybe the problem with travel with regard to the pandemic that may already be in place in the world related to coronaryvirus, I think that any such measure that can affect certain trends in the tourism sector should be promoted two, three times. So we can understand both the concerns and the government regarding the consumption of certain drinks, we can understand the government's concerns and the fact that certain drinks and certain non-alcoholic beverages can be additionally burdened, given that it may not be an interest to have such consumption done, but when it significantly affects the tourist offer, then it should be taken into account. And here it certainly has a significant impact because it is about products that are dominant when we talk about some events related to the tourism sector, for example in Split, I'm sure it will feel like spending during famous festivals held in July. So on this side, no additional tax burden in such sensitive times when economic growth is not what they would like, no matter what the rates are close to 3%, but we are still at the beginning of the EU. I think each of these measures should be analysed three times before it's passed, and on that side, I don't think this is the right time for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184658	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn, but these are already individual debates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184659	Thank you very much. Minister, this is the law. This tax as you said by balancing non-alcoholic beverages, i.e. drinks that have harmful effects that have high sugar concentrates in these mainly in syrups, and we should mainly talk about and think about high energy drinks that are consumed and which cause great health damage. First of all, when we talk about these tax changes, then we should mention that the most important thing is that I asked you in the replica, and I see that in this direction you've been thinking about these changes to protect domestic producers in this today's market, mostly the OPGs that traditionally deal with the rural way, i.e.. The traditional way of producing or syrup or juices, and everyone who's a generation who's been coming to their grandmothers before, has been done before, but today we have opgs dealing with or producing juices, wild plants, cups, these, those or those who have that production dealing with the production, planting of blackberries, raspberries, cherries, everything that's in the production, and of course there are those who have wild plants. I think it's important to protect these people in this market let's say to an uncontrollable circus where we're being imported, we're going through a lot of chains uncontrollably. But I only look at how many food products in the Republic of Croatia are growing, and now we've crossed 3 billion among other things here is part of these non-alcoholic beverages that are harmful are considered food products. I don't know how many people are in there that don't promote these companies how nutritious they are. But when I look at only this part of high energy harmful means harmful drinks that are advertised at games, at sports events, which bear the names of sports clubs, which carry names and advertised through sport and are essentially harmful, these are high-energy drinks that even use children of young age, not knowing, and are essentially proven to work on pressure, cardiac, cardiovascular diseases, means that children have these problems. In this way, the tax should be introduced, however, the coffee should certainly be left out, the coffee should be protected, the domestic producers are maximumly on this market, I doubt that in the trade chains of foreign products declared to be the quality and height of the share of natural in the production of non-alcoholic beverages is the one shown on the declarations, it is also proven in other products, in the case of chocolates, that the chocolates produced outside in the trade chains of the same company, that simply here are lower quality but is the same packaging, they essentially packed the same only thing that is more expensive here. So that part is important, what's important to us on the shelves, whether these foreign products are essentially what's declared natural, means the percentage maybe, is that percentage that's the natural percentage of sugar, is it credible. All market laws must essentially seek to protect domestic producers that produce in accordance with the law. and/or in a traditional way, to protect these producers. It is very important that citizens know that. That we all realize together that coffee is a way of life, coffee is a way of talking, coffee is a way of life, and coffee and these products should not be entered. However, these products that are advertised in a way that is highly energy to give us wings, unfortunately and I have said through sports clubs and through important sports events, world championships, car races, follow that these very companies that produce high-energy drinks, non-alcoholic, which do huge damage, simply their commercials to give you wings, even when we see news from the media i.e. when it is said that how many minors use it, and even in combination with alcohol, creates one terrible bad, one health disaster. So there are a lot of these things that should be followed by this law, not only the Ministry of Finance, but the Ministry of Finance will give a certain framework, but the very control of mostly imported non-alcoholic beverages, is essentially under a large questionnaire, and it should be devoted to controlling, that the competent institutions control these drinks that are declared to be a large percentage because I repeat, we have proof that one chocolate sold in another EU country and produced, that it is not the same quality in our markets, the question is what is on our drawers, whether these declarations are credible and that we are essentially choking domestic production and our small manufacturers and the OPGs. So we need all legal opportunities within which we can, protect and release taxes, i.e. our domestic producers, small manufacturers, OPGs, so if we need to be bigger, but unfortunately, we don't have a lot of them. We have a phenomenon in society, here's the finance minister, I'd like to hear, I know, it's on the subject, but off topic, what affects our citizens a lot, with this problem of health, we have one phenomenon, I'm going to mention if, I'm going to take this opportunity, we have areas in the Republic of Croatia. one big problem that arises and these are games of chance, that the Ministry of Finance has an influence in giving certain permits, so I say, there affects a lot of our citizens, our lives, alongside schools, with these drinks being advertised, high-energy, promoted and gambling. So we have an industrial zone in Sinj where the person who doesn't respect the spatial plan of the town of Sinj, who does what he wants, the former area of the bakery, and regardless of the council's opposition, puts the base station on the chimney of the former bakery, suddenly gets permission, Ganga is called a company, respected ministers, gets permission, it's close to the school, here's the talk, the former baker, the industrial zone, the man has asked for re-use, but it was a condition to respect the GUP, to move base stations from the inhabited area, it was not respected by the decision of the city council, it's remained an industrial zone, and now, of course, there's going to be a casino, there near the school, of course close to everything, and it milks money. We've got one monster now, Minister, and you're giving these permits, as far as gambling is concerned, under certain conditions, so think about the law because in this industrial zone instead of producing something, because if it's business, if they respect these laws, it's basically all milked out, through these harmful drinks that you're talking about, domestic production, non-alcoholic drinks, and this is how they're going to drain our money. Here they open, this example of Sinj, in the industrial zone, the gambling industry. No matter how much you don't break all the laws, and in this way they draw money, and it's one of the huge questions that we should through the gambling laws, through the rules of gambling, and also to regulate me here, it's one unloved monster that's advertised, like these energy drinks, high-energy, which give us wings, and through sport, advertise, sports clubs, sports championships, the biggest meaning of the competition, and it's one industry that actually promotes as a healthy life, sport is health, and basically through those high-energy drinks endangers the health of all and especially children because when someone says if you drink a 2 dcl of some kind of energy drink that is, a high-energy drink full of sugar, everything that is not, then of course it's very easy, even when it's only when we have a confusion of interest that you're going to be suffering what's healthy, what's going to be in sports, how it's going to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to live And it's one of the huge problems, but it's a little out of the context of the finance minister. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184660	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184661	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Bulj, you, and part of colleagues today very usefully used this debate to point to health risks in the Republic of Croatia because unfortunately, according to the indicators we had recently read by the European Commission, Croatia is on average below all parameters in terms of quality life habits in the Republic of Croatia, which affects our life, quality of life and health costs. We live on average 3 years shorter than the European average, and it is precisely the key eating habits, which today is well pointed out to the extent that this is related to the health of young people who are far away on the scales of their peers in the EU. And it is therefore good to send this message from the assembly today in this debate, how important it is to change life habits but not only young people but adults, because these very life habits are the key reason for such poor health indicators in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184662	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184663	As a doctor, you know that in Croatia young people are educated in harmfulness, as an example of high-energy drinks, that through sports here I mentioned competitions where life should be promoted, means we have no education which, I think, when some high-energy potion you advertise which is harmful to health “gives you wings”, and we have a sports competition, we have at clubs on their “gives you wings” you fly when you drink, in fact young people are very easy to buy, and they are cute, and, of course, not just young people. And it's harmful to health, endangers health,.../incomprehensible/... but very little is said about it that way. Here, this industry is obviously too financial, that not advertising means healthy life, healthy nutrition, and we have to work to get back to traditional production, and everything that is obviously harmful and what is worse in other EU countries unfortunately ends up in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184664	Thank you, time. We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, therefore this law, even though it is called the Law on Special Tax on Coffee and Alcoholic Drinks, is clear that this is about energy drinks and essentially taxation of the same and this, this law is essentially technical changes that create the preconditions that we can implement with the change of tax laws or tax reform last month at 12 months. I want to talk about this today to remind you of some of the things I pointed to when we discussed a package of tax laws. So, I personally support taxation and energy drinks and beverages with excess sugar and, as my colleagues before me in Croatia have spoken to me before, we meet with and obesity growing among our citizens and diseases resulting from the consumption of these products, but I cannot support this law as well as we in the SDP because it is part of a tax reform that we did not support at the time and we do not support any further. So I won't support this law either, but I want to draw attention to one topic that I've opened at the time, and I think that should be one of the whole policy of this government, so no, not just these tax changes in a way that we tax energy drinks and tax extra sugars, but that this, these health taxes, I'm going to call them that, so there's also a tobacco that's not here that should then be rerouted to prevention, education, and ultimately to sport. So, I know that legally it is not possible at this point but that the government is simply collecting these taxes and funding from them, they are being deployed as they are being deployed, but that the government should lead one idea of a whole policy, so here we are now talking about financing sports and how exactly these industries that are harmful to health are sometimes sponsors, sponsors and advertised precisely at sports events and competitions, and on the other hand maybe it wouldn't be necessary for a part of these taxes to be directed right into the financing of sports, athletes, scholarships to our athletes, etc. So that's where I want to appeal to you to take care of it. I know that both now and already former Minister Kujundzic expected that the income from these taxes and tobacco taxes would be directed into health care, I know that this is not possible, but the government should say, that politics or perhaps legally regulate that the funds of these health taxes go directly to the prevention, education and financing of athletes. Maybe that would be one answer, an answer to the sport. We know this is 10, 15, 20 years ago, for example. There has been a ban on the same advertising and tobacco products and the public, and so on in sport, so maybe this is the way, but we can't now ban companies that produce energy drinks to sponsor this sport, because athletes lack money, but if the revenues from these taxes were directed in that direction then maybe we could go to that more radical provision to ban even advertising such products, for example. in sports competitions and events that happen. However, I believe that this should be taken into account and that all of this should be part of a whole, including a health policy that the government should implement and that this should all be linked together. I generally welcome the taxation of harmful, harmful products that affect people's health and have costs later, but here I urge you to think a little bit about, oh, the whole health policy, not just about this fiscal, fiscal impact, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184666	Thank you too, Mr. Prevec has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184667	Thank you, Your Honor. Col. Djujic, you said that we do not really oppose this kind of tax on products that are harmful, but I would say that I personally oppose, constantly changing taxes, the fact that we no longer know ourselves how many tax rates, how often we change taxes, and that's not good for any country, all those investors who come to the Republic of Croatia have to wonder how often we really change taxes, there is no way they can agree and after this 4, almost 4 years. I don't know how many tax rates we've changed. And secondly, I support what you're saying, we need to know when we're raising taxes on what they're intended for, if it's to prevent the fight against obesity, the fight against all forms of cancer, I agree, but then it needs to be precisely defined in the tax law to see which prevention comes from these revenues, from these new taxes, that's something that needs to be defined, and then people will understand why we're raising taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184668	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184669	Thank you very much. Comrade Prelec, I'll tell you, you said you didn't know how much of this change we had in 3 years. These governments have had 3 full tax reforms and tax changes, and that's not good, it creates one particular uncertainty for investors and for people who work, we bring many strategies in this assembly, anyway, in each strategy it says that, let's say, tax policy 5. Shouldn't change, I'll remind you again, when we talked, there was also talk today about hospitality and about this famous VAT in tourism, the basis for these tax discharges of the former government was also a strategy for the development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia, which also said that 5g. You shouldn't change the tax, and the first thing this government did when it came to power has changed those taxes, so basically you should have that stability and consistency sometimes, and if this year hadn't been elections before, 11-12 months ago, you'd probably be going to the fourth full tax reform, so it's not good anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184670	Excuse me, Mr. Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184671	Well, I'm also going to refer to what you pointed out, which is that we are constantly the one in the government's mandate in some tax reform, and it's really not good for entrepreneurs to mention a colleague in the replica before, but not for citizens, because citizens should probably know the same thing about how much taxes they're going to pay. Of course, if we look that there were good moves and that's probably one of the good moves too, but you've had good moves that have been annulled, we're constantly going to tax less and less work, which is good for the citizens, they have bigger salaries, but on the other hand you have a problem that our entire tax system or all the income units of local self-government are being financed from income tax, which I just don't think is good and it's not long-term and ours, our unit structure The local self-government won't hold that power. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184672	Thank you for your response, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184673	I used this debate again to draw attention to one problem that I think is important, and that's the sport that people are doing again when they're dealing with sports right now and to prevent these health problems that are caused by this and I think these topics should be encouraged to adopt a whole policy, and because, let's say, sport is being financed from exactly this local level that you're talking about, so we don't even know how much money in sports goes to all kinds of different levels, and I think that country should make that, yes, to know how it goes, where it goes, but then maybe we'd unload the same cities and municipalities to, on, at country level, make a model of funding and that it goes where it should and that it has some results. The same thing is with this way of financing cities and municipalities, so we need to consider changing the whole model that cities and municipalities are not the main income in general and the biggest income tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184674	Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184675	Thank you very much. A colleague, according to the Institute, according to a survey by the Institute of Public Finance for Sports, totals more than 2.5 billion kuna in the Republic of Croatia, so that these flat-rates we hear are actually very superficial. So you've made a good connection, and this is really a tax debate, especially about the so-called. unhealthy taxes should be taken in a health and sports debate package because this should be a good way to finance a variety of preventive programmes to address health risks because the Republic of Croatia is among the worst countries following this preventive mortality in Europe. However, what I always insist, so I don't agree that money is just being given into the health care system, and there is no management of the cost side, and that was just the key problem of the current health administration, so no fiscally sustainable system has been established. So last year we ended up with $3.1 billion in health debt with all the recoverys that were Present. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184676	Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184677	So, fellow Jovanovic, the figures talk about, oh, and they warn us about certain problems, and therefore we need to conduct debates, and we need to have concrete debates about both health and sports, and about all these problems, and then maybe they should offer certain solutions and not just talk about taxes, so I don't know, without this energy drink we're talking about, maybe talk about tax discharge, so in some European countries, some people who, let's say, live well, means non-smokers pay less, some other taxes or giving, and that's all some of the things we need to talk about and see which models are the best in the ultimate goal, and that's the health of our citizens and that, in fact, that the treatment of people who suffer because of unhealthy lifestyle, less cost, so countries that they recognise it in time, have a lot of cost, and they have a lot of methods to be able to be able to do so much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184678	And in the end, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184679	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Djujic. So around some sports, there's a huge amount of money, and only some athletes use the benefits of that money, and so do sponsors. You mention energy or non-alcoholic or alcoholic beverages that are then sponsored by these sporting events, however, it is special taxes and should therefore make sure that those sports that are less paid are financed and popularised. I will re-cite an example of women's football in the Republic of Croatia who is unfairly discriminated, so let's say HRTV doesn't want to pass on women's finals while at the same time transferring men's finals in the category of veterans which is absolutely not a message to young people, here in this case women to deal with sports, to deal with healthy lives, and these are things to think about the entire government, not just the Ministry of Finance. But the Ministry of Finance is that it collects the funds that should then be properly distributed to represent all sports because, as you said, it's the right way to fight addiction and disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184680	Answer, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184681	Well, if that's one complex topic, a lot of us here talk about sports and we often talk about, now you can't get into which sport has more money because normally some things are on the market, something more attractive, something more people are watching, and then there are more interested and sponsors and all, but right now the state should be there to help these less attractive sports, let's call them that. We now have this model of funding from games of chance, on the other hand we still have an unresolved problem taxing online betting that not even today, and I don't think that there is now a problem of this government, it's a problem for ten, 15 years that hasn't been solved, but where the huge money that can then be directed into these let's say less attractive sports. But it mainly requires a comprehensive debate, one common position of the financing policy that then brings again, once again, the results eventually for all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184682	We're moving on with individual debates, Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184683	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The short bill will also be brief. Taxes have a particular purpose, on the one hand, to serve to fill the state budget, on the other hand, in particular this type of tax specific taxes, in encouraging a certain type of socially desirable behaviour or to discourage socially undesirable behaviour. A typical example is a special tobacco tax. Now, how much tax policy can we actually miss out on that goal might be the most showing tobacco tax. It has grown in recent years, and has it resulted in a decrease in the number of smokers in Croatia? Unfortunately not. It is increasing, especially among adolescents who need us to be concerned, but we also need to explain that we have not used the tools at our disposal. In fact, it is not enough to do this only in tax policy, it must be done by education and must be done by prevention. We do these educations, for example. We don't have health care in elementary school, we don't have it in enough numbers, otherwise we'd probably have a little better results than we have. The same case is with alcohol abuse, intoxicating drugs, we lose that battle slowly, we lose that battle in society, and it's our responsibility to get it because we make the laws, we regulate it. This must take care of the situation in the environment. Here's how much we've raised the price of tobacco products people are increasingly buying domestic products, and more and more importing them from BiH because that's how I don't know two or three times cheaper. And what have we achieved? Nothing. We have done stupid things because we have not done enough to make sure that this still has to be harmonised and that there cannot be an increase in prices or an increase in excise duties or an increase in special taxes cannot go indefinitely. And it's not a panacea, it's not a cure for everyone, it's a tax hike, and now we've solved the problem. So this is focused on taxation of energy drinks, but you see we want this one health purpose, and at the same time we allow advertising of energy drinks, that's what we're talking about. These actions must be harmonised, so if we decide to reduce the consumption of energy drinks, then we ban their advertising. They are mostly used by students to say that they increase their concentration in learning, they are used by drivers to be more collected in driving, so one wonders now whether it's more harmful than having a little more sugar or more benefit from increasing the concentration. It is said that this is against sugar in non-alcoholic beverages, but sugar is elsewhere, there are in all candid products, so it would be logical if we are against sugar, if we are in order for people to eat less sugar because it is unhealthy to make one whole strategy about it and education strategy and tax strategy and advertising strategy of such products, then we could expect an effect. However, this is not a law that has only that purpose, it has one more important purpose, namely, it was passed in the 12th month of last year and this is a repair. It didn't take this into account, it wasn't exactly working out, so now we have to fix it, let's say, let's say and let's say that we had to fix this because we didn't do it right, or smartly, and we didn't do it in the last few changes. I don't see any particular reason why such a law would not be accepted but I call on the government, but I call on the government to act in a cross-cutting way not only through the Ministry of Finance but also through the Ministry of Education, through the Ministry of Sports, so that the government here acts as a whole because I think that we will have better results than we have as a society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184684	We have several replicas, Mr. Jovanovic's first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184685	Thank you very much, Vice President. We cannot say that there is no program in Croatia, so our government has introduced all schools of health education and education for a healthier society, and in this segment is just one module "Living healthy" dedicated to these topics, but it will take time to see if it has produced results. There is also the HZZ programme, "Living healthy" where there are also 5 modules that are on citizens in Brussels, which is one of the best prevention programmes but of course it needs to be kept repeating and insisting on implementation. There's also one wandering around this government when it comes to cigarettes. So, she's just finished her e-consultation on a regulation that we won't have the opportunity to correct in the Parliament, so it's good to mention it, so excise duties on e-cigarettes rising towards... fluids, not according to nicotine and will collect drastically, so it needs to be lifted per milligram of nicotine and not according to the measure of fluid, it is quite wrong in this regulation and it will reduce the number of people who switch to e-cigarettes and that is good in the prevention of cancer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184686	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184687	When it comes to education,... I don't think they're enough, I think it should start from the first grade of primary school, that there should be one review that would be called addiction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not just a drug addiction, it's not just a tobacco addiction, it's not just an addiction to alcohol, it's a phone addiction, a laptop, different new forms of addiction appear and we as a society don't have a good or good enough answer to that. When we talk about cigarettes, here's just recently a programme of early lung cancer detection, new CT devices have been obtained, very commendable, has been launched, smokers over the age of 50 are called on to come in for checks, and that's how I think it should work. So not only increase the price of cigarettes but also work educationally and preventively.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184688	Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184689	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Stazic, I liked this issue of yours about the need for the harmonisation of state policies and those that go towards the prevention of certain behaviours that are not desirable as well as the tax that must be imported into it. It certainly needs to be coordinated. And of course, repression is not the only best solution but people often react very well when they're burned in the pocket and we know how much the health system costs to a large amount of smokers in our country. We also know how much the health system costs excessive consumption of sweet, very sweet drinks as well as any preventive programs that should also be financed from somewhere. Therefore, raising taxes in this segment does not necessarily have to be a bad thing if it is monitored and aligned with other parts of the policy that must be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184690	Answer, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184691	I almost have nothing to say to you because in your replica you brought out those personal thesis, yes, it should act as coherently as possible. If we act in harmony, we'll have results.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184692	Thank you very much, let's move on. And Sasa Djujic, I'm sorry, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184693	You almost forgot me, Vice President. Thank you very much. Comrade Stazić, it is precisely the key to all this consistency and you said but I didn't say it, I said it and in the debate, you repeated it several times, I answered because you said that today we are passing this law for repairs and that's true because it wasn't a well done job in the 12th month. When this idea was born but soon I expect maybe another fix because, according to the information that I have, when it comes to these changes, it was the idea of taxing sugar in non-alcoholic beverages. So he's going for sugar. Meanwhile, some producers of such drinks rebelled and then added this Taurine provision to specify it then exclusively for energy drinks but we have now, there will be a situation that we have some non-energy non-alcoholic, which will have more sugar than even some energy and will not be trapped under these scissors, and there should actually be this whole policy to know what is taxing and why and what effects there should be at the end of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184694	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184695	If that happens, team up, team up, that means we can't think straight enough. It is very, very important to consider now whether to tax sugar in some foods. Then what's he gonna do? Increase the tax on chocolate, on Canadian products, on cookies, I mean, increase their taxes in pastries because they sell a lot of sugar products. So you can't just, you know, take a little segment and then build on it, but a little bit of it should get caught.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184696	Now it's Mr. Ivan Pernar's turn, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184697	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. So here's a debate that still occupied parliamentary representatives who in just five articles still found motives to discuss the law on special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic drinks, even more so, one representative was especially ready today, we heard him, came here, determined that he was specially prepared for the law, and that he found that this law only in the act of coffee, applies 120 million kuna per year to citizens and violates their social peace as they drink together coffee and discuss all the topics that plague them throughout the year. But he's not here right now, so he probably can't answer me, so we just need to talk about it this way because it's not just a discussion of the law, it's a discussion of 5 articles, it's a little wider story. We have also established the following fact that the entire SDP club supports taxation, greater taxation of non-alcoholic beverages with excess sugar, but they are against the law that should solve it and we can see it as the continuity of a credible, good policy which is essentially some kind of wooden iron that can't operate in nature, but we have added against 4 rounds of tax reform and as a formal conclusion of that tax reform in the 4th round of this law, we will also be against it. And that's okay. And there is some point or direction or drawing a split between this government, Andrej Plenkovic, supported by this majority and the SDP who wants to lead this country tomorrow because they showed through their vote, through their discussions that 4 rounds of tax reform do not support. They did not want to support an increase in tax deductions through income tax, which meant pay increases for citizens, they did not want to support a reduction in profit tax for unaccounted for entrepreneurs who made revenues of up to €7.5 million to €3 million, so this reduction from 18% to 12%, etc., did not want to support youth policy in terms of salaries to be fully exempt from income tax by 25 years and from 25 to 30%, they did not want to support the tax, i.e. reduction of VAT on food services The food and sweets and the overall effect of these 4 rounds of about 9 billion kunas they declared by their pawn vote, irrelevant, irrelevant, irrelevant, and that citizens were essentially and not even entrepreneurs deserved such a discharge because their policy when they had the chance to lead this country was essentially an increase in all types of taxes and, of course, all giving in terms of directing, energy, I don't know anything about the home budget in those 4 years we witnessed only increases. And that's the point of the split. That's what we can measure, so tomorrow when we're in some kind of opportunity to discuss publicly in some kind of campaigns and so, we can always say SDP was against it, we were up for it. And citizens probably can or don't have to understand it. Anyone in their home budget can notice and do not have to notice any area to talk about. Well, maybe even I don't know about teachers, teachers, health professionals, these are the evidence things that can be determined in both phonograms of discussion and statistics and in everything this home does. That's the story. We are all about trying to influence our children to live healthier to drink healthy drinks, etc., when we have to make such a move, we are against it for political reasons, party reasons, not because we disagree. And that's one legitimate political goal or argument that needs to convince citizens that they are really an alternative that needs to be run differently by this country tomorrow. I disagree, I agree only with the effects or arguments that, through a certain procedure, contribute through activity. We think this law should be contributed. There have been prophecies, probably as many remarks as I have seen in the public debate. It means that not all of them are covered so that it is unfair or that imports will increase and that's what colleagues say. There are experiences of other countries that have introduced such a tax, they are somewhere positive somewhere not having the effect that was considered. Is it up to us to look only uniformly and say it's where they're positive we accept it, where the effect hasn't been achieved that part is not ours. It is likely that such an effect of such a law may have a positive shift tomorrow, but let’s give it a chance. Why am I saying that? When we had the SDP government where they were sitting and some current MPs here, then every law here, too much was in opposition back then, that every law and law-making was actually the possibility that citizens would or wouldn't take advantage of, entrepreneurs would or wouldn't take advantage of. When we come to such acts or laws as this Government proposes, then they're done facts is or is not, there's no possibility and that's what we should be different about here. I'm personally on this because I think we certainly didn't get into this because we don't have anything to do but we just feel that in that part we can contribute to some kind of health habit, to the effects of overall health care, and some time or some others show whether it was good or not. That is why I say once again, the Ministry of Finance and this Government wants to say, to say that they did good for Croatian citizens regardless of all the disputes and the riots they are trying to create to convince people that by depression, defetism, some kind of behavior that should be destructive to what we witnessed and last night, not this session is essentially creating an alternative that needs to be replaced by a concrete, reasoned effect that can be felt. So we're just saying, we're lying, we're making up, let's be negative, and as such we're very similar to being some new government tomorrow that's going to find out at some point that this whole country, that everything is nice in this country, is suddenly going to be just like it's probably going to be up on another hill right now. Everything's gonna be great. No more problems. Well, that's what I'm trying to say in the end, so we're going to enjoy dealings because the clues are left. The trails remained, and every time the SDP squeezed, he pressed red, he said his position, we're against getting the citizens relieved, we're against having less taxes, and that's the only relevant fact to prove by numbers, everything else is an impression, and then the citizens will.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184698	Mr. Djujic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184699	Comrade Boric, everything else is an impression, but you said nicely, these are the points of the section and that even then the citizens will evaluate and speak, there are many lies and you have said the same thing only because in that case you were talking about themselves. So, when we talk about some divisions and what separates us and you, yes, the SDP was against the introduction of taxes on first real estate, HDZ taxed the first real estate to the young people who first bought the apartment, the SDP was against the fact that the rich pay grew even more, and the poor didn't grow, HDZ gave the rich a lot more than they had, the poor didn't give anything, you see who you were, the first tax reform you introduced into catering, and now you're saying that we're against taking off there, we weren't against such tax reforms because you introduced those taxes and those are the things that divide us and that we're going to talk about, we're looking forward to these dealings just don't manipulate ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184700	Mr. Boric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184701	Thank you very much. Col. Djujic, I do not manipulate, I always say what I think, I think this is true and justified, the tax on catering services, we will always talk about it, will be at the beginning and at the end of the term 13% no matter what you say, so that, but what you left from 22% to 25%, 23%, and at 25% is still, unfortunately, and there in the fourth round we gave up from 25 to 24 to meet some other requirements or possibilities and that you were against it, means once again, against the higher salaries of all citizens, against, against, meaning that the economy has less taxes that pay on profits, especially from 93% of those who had incomes to 7.5 million kuna that were taxed with 18% by then, now it will be with 12%, you have to say clearly that you stayed in that position, and that you had a lot of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184702	Time. Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184703	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Mr. Boric, you've talked a lot in your debate about SDP, you've even declared us unworthy, one of us is in particular about concrete sectoral policies, and the other when the budget comes and needs money for them, that we don't advocate more people's salaries, that's the foundation of social democracy, so we'd have to follow our work a little better, but declare the SDP unworthy, and then you mumbled just something like HDZ's promise made that the VAT from 25 will be reduced to 24%, so there's no credibility, or there are some now, some arguments, excuses, anything, but not keeping your own promise, if you see that we call it unworthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184704	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184705	Thank you very much. A colleague of Klisovic, it was the SDP who was in the position not to be reduced from 25 to 24%... Yes, you did, when you promised in that plan, if you remember when you were deputy minister, you said that Plan 21 is essentially the wish of the Croatian people and that when you came, when you fulfilled it, that this people would be happy. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] But in the end, you said that this plan was some kind of fiction and lie, that it was never a promise, because you realized that the effectiveness of your government was nothing, absolutely, that nothing from that plan could be solved, and it was a question of your credibility, that I wasn't saying it, that's unfortunately said by the man who became president of the state today, and it was all right, but this story from 25 to 24, just came out first and said don't do it because you'll release the funds that unfortunately won't be useful and when we did it, you were against it again, and you pressed red and told me we don't support the change of the VAT Act in that other part. Absolutely. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184706	Thank you, thank you, thank you, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184707	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, you have called yourself an argumentable effect that works, but now I am interested in exactly what it means, how you are specifically Josip Boric justified the effect that works, so it is a very interesting thesis and I believe that many in their political debates will use that terminology because it is effective and this quite significant explanation of certain things, only people have to understand what it is about, so I ask you to explain to the citizens what it means that Josip Boric is the justified effect that works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184708	Please explain that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184709	So I failed to understand him, he always had this unfortunately some of his escapades because simply this one is, he is aware that as a minister he was very successful and that it marked him that he had an elevator special that he traveled daily to his office and back and that there was the only argumentable effect that he could show at the end of his term because if he mentioned all the negative sides, those tens of thousands of closed companies, crafts, etc., which he had made possible with his policy, when he was invented by the Ministry to be a minister, he here today I say the dissipation of his kind of peaceful, acting this thinking that should delight the Croatian regiment. Unfortunately, it often turns out wrong, so it gets nervous, so it gets even in bad conditions, and that's why I say this debate should show a line between those who are in favour of helping citizens and entrepreneurs and those who were against it and that's the only argument that's justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184710	Thank you, Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184711	Thank you very much, so, fellow Boric, you have carefully analyzed all this, but you should say something that since we are talking about special taxes or excise duties, they have their own purpose or they want to nivellise the price of certain products, or they want to further tax products that are harmful to the public in such a way. If I am not mistaken, if this famous VAT is so problematic we have clearly said here that we have made a political decision that we will not reduce VAT by 1% because of the situation in the health care that has been inherited and which unfortunately lasts for many years, and it is also said that the specific taxes on harmful products that are very much affecting the health of Croatian citizens will, above all, be thought of tobacco products and products containing a lot of sugar that will introduce additional taxes and thus try to prevent them from working, and on the other hand, the Ministry of Health will thus come up with additional funds to correct all these irregularities that it has so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184712	Time, time. Answer, here you go, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184713	Thank you very much. counterpart Shuker says once again the difference between this government and the government they led is obvious and measured. That's why we have on the side of them in some way and laughing at everything we're saying because there's one man as far as I can see at the end when he could try to take care of what the state was doing, what he did and he managed to do, and these others were spending like a drunk millionaire, they didn't care at all. 70 billion public debt in four years and no worries. You borrow, you spend, and you leave the next one to worry, and then you put it all on the table just fine, and you don't know anything, and that's the impression in public and perception. What's left? We can measure that and there's a difference and that's what I'm talking about and that's why they don't like to hear it, because they're on a thin flight because what's left behind was practically nothing, nothing. But today they're blowing their brains out like they know everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184714	Thank you. Let's move on, Mr. Stjepan. He's gone. He's losing his right. And finally, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184715	I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, asking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives and New Politics to consult on these two laws that are on the agenda. It is about the fact that the monetary system in the Republic of Croatia has been damaged and damaged for the last 15 years, in this regard the CNB as an institution has done nothing, it only cares about the profits of banks, it does not care that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been damaged by just one thieving behaviour of Croatian banks who were convicted in 2014 due to illegal interest in 2019 due to the currency clause, the CNB has done nothing like someone who controls and supervisory to end banking unfair, illegal, criminal behaviour. The CNB had a duty on the basis of the first judgment in 2014 to suspend the behaviour of Croatian banks which applied unfair interest rates. Then the minister does not want to hear it, then the CNB had to interrupt banks in the application of the illegal exchange clause CHF because there is a certain number of loans in which the CHF currency clause continues to be applied and the CNB did not stop it and it was due to the fact that this is the executive part of the ruling in the Franak case, except that banks unfairly negotiated such interest rates, that banks should no longer act accordingly. The CNB had a duty as supervisor, a supervisor to terminate such bank behaviour, to order them to suspend the application of unfair interest rates and to suspend the application of the CHF currency clause in those loans in which such currency clauses continue to be applied. The CNB didn't do it as a supervisor and as a supervisor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184716	Time. Mr. Djujic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184717	Comrade Maras, you have very reasoned, content and comprehensively exposed the full hypocrisy of HDZ and their policy and I want to point out to you the same example. So here's the HDZ calling us out that we're against tax evasion on the salaries of young people up to 30 years old because we voted against it. Yeah, I'm saying I've given the amendment that a 100% tax discharge will be for all young people up to 30, not 50%, not to punish those who study and go to colleges. The HDZ rejected that amendment of mine, and if I had accepted it, I would have supported that reform. Now, I've given the amendment because I think it should be changed. Is there a problem? Okay, thank you very much. [[/Intruder Radin: No, no.]] Yeah, yeah, I mean, there's been some confusion, a nervousness in HDZ, so I'm looking at what's going on. [[Intruder Radin: No, it's not a problem.]] Well time will stop because I can't speak, you haven't left me terms so I'm going to finish my two sentences now. [[Intruder Radin: Yes, but the only problem is that it's time.]] Yeah, yeah, but if I can, if I can, if they're co-workers. [[Let's finish this, please.]] Yeah, if their pressure's okay, health care, state of order. [[I'd like to ask you to finish.]] Okay, thank you, Vice President. [[Intruder Radin: Nice of you, I humbly ask you to finish your thought.]] So, I've given an amendment that if HDZ had accepted, I would have supported tax reform and I gave it because it goes towards a better life of citizens, I'm not who the HDZ gave 15 amendments to the GUP to cover [[Intruder Radin: Here you go.]] and put a fig leaf on the co-operation with Bandic and that he would camouflage something there [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] My intentions were sincere, their intentions weren't and that's that line section that's breaking us up: minus 30 is dangerous for health already, please sit down./... so a long time has been a nervousness in HDZ since these 30 seconds. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184718	Thank you, thank you, thank you very much, thank you, thank you, thank you, have a seat. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184719	Thank you very much. Coli Djujic, clearly the anxiety is strong, especially because Prime Minister Plenkovic cannot publicly say that he supports our proposal, and he would like to, about the abortion, because I am sure that he supports it given his profile and relations to it and not that Kovac and Stier here publicly say what they think about it, but here's when Mr Plenkovic goes through these elections then he will be able to make it easier and say that he supports us in this. So it's clear why this anxiety is, and it's clear why what you've been saying doesn't make any sense, so they've made it easier for young people up to 30 years to tax them, but they'll only be able to consume it in 2021 when they get their taxes back, so that's a delay. Some other government will have fiscal effects their help. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184720	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184721	You have used your entire speech to describe the HDZ government, especially through a statement by our colleague, Boric, which will surely be conveyed by all the portals about the reasoned effect that is working. I think if we wanted to describe that policy and fellow Boric to make a better expression, it would be that it is a series of unargumented effects that do not work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184722	Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184723	Thank you very much. I am sure that this quote and this formulation will also enter the political textbooks because it is hard to imagine a political debate in the future without that quote at all. And this contradiction of yours has the same logic and will probably impose itself, but trust me when you and I say it doesn't sound so convincing because it needs to be an experienced and convincing speaker like fellow Boric. So you and I have to make sure that we get to that level in order to reach our fellow citizens' hearts and minds with such a single sentence. But I absolutely agree with you this is a statement for textbooks, and it's likely to be qualified that way. The Generations of Politologists may also write graduate papers, graduate papers based on the reasoned effects that work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184724	Sir, I'm sorry. Replication response. No, uh, you talk so much, Mr. Maras, you don't know, you don't know when you're replicating when you're talking. Mr. Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184725	Thank you very much. Here, let's give Mr. Maras a little more chance to speak. This one, I must say, has been very good to me in what Mr. Shucker, with a smile, called a brilliant analysis of Representative Boric. So, credibility about who supports, who is supported by people and citizens, they themselves have shown in all those protests during the mandate of this government mentioned by Mr. Maras. Could anyone remember such numerous protests against the government during the SDP government? About such important issues, I don't think so. So I think there is everything and much said, not to say that the emigration of people from Croatia including young people, for which Mr. Boric has never been greater than in the last 4 years. So, Mr. Maras, is that the credible data or that brilliant analysis that's going to get into the political textbooks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184726	I assume you're replicating Mr. Maras, is that because he didn't get it? Yes, well, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184727	Thank you normally, Mr. Vice President, for the replica of who was speaking, but under the impression that you must understand that we will be under Mr. Boric's impression for a long time. It is impossible to absorb in 15, 20 minutes or hour. So this debate and this term will be discussed for days. And on that side, you have to understand that, understand us MPs, and I believe that Mr. Shucker, at that very moment, concluded that the debate was great when he heard that term that would be repeated for a long time. So, on that side, the reasoned effects that are working will, from today on, believe me, become an inescapable part of every political debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184728	Come on, let's say it's replicated to your presentation about the gentleman, about what Mr. Boric said and what Mr. Schooker said. More or less like that, right? Okay, okay. And now he's Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184729	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, that you have made an effort, as you have once tried to keep that expression of Silicon Valley public and it is possible that your way of politics is exactly what you are doing. Trying to make fun of yourself as some sort of condescending choir to everyone and everything thinking about yourself that you're perfect, the smartest, the best. But just what I said we can measure, we measure. And when you were government minister and you cut some medical contribution from 15 to 13, you raised your hand, after a year from 13 to 15, raised your hand, all five. That's what's measured, except you want to forget it. When someone reminds you like I do of such a thing, then we go make fun of each other, make fun of each other, have enough members to make fun of, not only have better expressions than that. But behind each of us, we'll see what the people say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184730	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184731	Thank you very much, I can't disagree with your debate except in one important part, no one laughed at you here, don't take it as a mockery, I think your colleagues praised you in order, here's my colleague Klisovic, colleague Djujic, colleague Stazic admired your debate, so we're not talking about any mockery and I think you've completely misunderstood, the problem is of course what, what you were talking about to citizens absolutely different than you think it does, hundreds of thousands of emigrating from the Republic is the best answer to how it works, how your organized effects work, justified effects, excuse me, and I'm sorry that Mr. Kovac didn't have a chance to say his attitude that is contrary to the attitude of Andreja Plenkovic about our proposal of abortion laws, here I am sorry that you didn't allow him to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184732	Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184733	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the esteemed MP, in a debate on the tax on non-alcoholic beverages, well fits the debate on Mayor Bandic because he probably only drinks non-alcoholic drinks, and the honourable representative knows that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184734	Mr. Maras's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184735	I really don't know what Bandic drinks, I honestly have no idea what he drinks, no, but his action seems to me as if he's not drinking just a drink, but this Mr. Kirin, I think we can joke this little bit and, and, in some of these discussions to fit certain things, but people are not into jokes, it's embarrassing that HDZ can't say no to that non-transparent and thief city government in the City of Zagreb, it's embarrassing, because of a couple of months of chairs in the government of the Republic of Croatia, HDZ can't say that, and you'll see Mr. Kirin, you're in Rijeka, but those who are here in Zagreb, however, there's none, there's Mr. Kovac from Zagreb, you'll see how the HDZ will pass in the next elections in Zagreb, you'll be happy if you get a 10%, because of all of all the Zagreb will remember. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184736	Thank you, thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Voter, I almost said Glasnović, no, I don't have glasses.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for seeing how three letters make a difference. Comrade Maras, you've done well to apostrophe that this government has brought chaos and corruption upon itself. However, what may be the biggest problem is ignoring, and even undermining the constitutional order in the Republic of Croatia, not only do social care centres take the right not to execute decisions of the Administrative Court but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia after 2nd g. does not act on the order of the Constitutional Court and does not propose a new law on termination of pregnancy in HS, when we decide to help the government, the government to act in accordance with the order in the Republic of Croatia, the government does not want to show itself on the subject due to internal elections and thus prevents debate in the assembly. After the internal elections will come parliamentary elections, Andrej Plenkovic will not have the courage to say again whether or not he supports a free safe and accessible abortion in the Republic of Croatia that must not be, must not be first than last solution, but must be available [[Intruder: Time]] all women. [[/Intruder: Voter...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184738	...time. Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184739	Thank you very much, ma'am. The voter, here you are absolutely right and nonstop is for, for a while, not making Prime Minister Plenkovic's decisions, he's a doctor, so he's the king of not making decisions and making views, and that's why eventually he'll go to the elections and people would appreciate more if a man said his position and if he came out of the closet and admitted that he's there on the same side as this, this, these topics with us as proposings, and he's simply blocked by this pressure because he's afraid he'll lose his voter and you see that at the moment when we're talking about it, his candidate for vice president outside of the hall, colleague Bačić, means he can't comment and say what Andrej Plenkovic thinks because he's afraid that he's going to cause certain losses that he's going to capitalize Mr. Kovac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184740	And that's how I close the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184741	Therefore, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Special Tax on Coffee and Alcoholic Drinks, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 828. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 79 votes in favour and 10 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on Special Tax on Coffee and Alcoholic Drinks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184742	As we decided this morning, we are now moving to a joint debate on the following points: No. 829 and - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 830. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. If he argues, first is, first is reading Is that as you yourself might have noticed. [[Intruder: Yes, yes]] The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Mr. Maric, Minister of Finance will speak, give this further explanation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184743	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here I will work together to present one and the other draft of the law, as we have heard, so this is the first reading, so there will be opportunities to discuss them today, but also once again as regards the CNB Act as well as this other, but first I am talking about it, so it is designed to further bring Croatia's real framework into line with EU regulations in this area. I will remind you all together, so on 4 July 2019, the Republic of Croatia sent a letter of intention to the Member States of the euro area, Denmark and the EU institutions on the entry on the European Course Mechanism, ERM II. In addition to the letter of intent, an action plan has been submitted detailing the reforms that the Republic of Croatia will implement by May 2020 when a decision on the establishment of close cooperation with the CNB is expected to be taken and considered and taken by the European Central Bank. Close cooperation between the European Central Bank and the national authority of a participating Member State whose currency is not the euro shall be established by a decision of the European Central Bank when all the prescribed conditions are met. One condition is that, prior to the establishment of close cooperation, all relevant national rules have been adopted to ensure the implementation of close cooperation. The decision of the European Central Bank to establish close cooperation shall be published in the Official Journal of the EU and shall, as a rule, apply 14 days after its publication. In this respect, it was necessary to access the amendments to certain legal provisions, including these amendments to the CNB Act, thus enabling the establishment of a close cooperation between the European Central Bank and the CNB, as well as the entry into a single recovery mechanism, and to further comply with the provisions that enter into force on the day of the introduction of the euro as official monetary units of the Republic of Croatia. A couple of technical notes before starting to measure those changes, so on 15 July 2019, a working group was set up to prepare the euro for introduction as a legal means of payment to the Republic of Croatia whose task was to make legal proposals in the field of credit institutions, the rehabilitation of credit institutions and the business of the CNB. The members of the working group were also representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. The draft law was drawn up by 15 October and was subsequently completed in accordance with the application of the comments of the Authority of the State Administration. The bill itself was published on the e-consultation portal on December 24th and continued public consultation until January 7th, then sent to the government's procedure, the government adopted and headed to the Croatian Parliament on 23 January 2020. As regards the law, hence the applicable CNB Act, the status, position, objective, tasks and structure of the CNB, the relationship of the CNB with the Republic of Croatia, credit institutions, international institutions and organisations, EU bodies and institutions, tasks and competences of the CNB from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, the tasks and responsibilities of the CNB after the introduction of the euro as an official monetary unit into the Republic of Croatia and the proposal for the Law would also regulate the tasks and responsibilities of the CNB in the context of close cooperation with the European Central Bank and also the responsibilities in cooperation with the Single Sanitary Committee. What's the next news? There's a few of them, so I'll count them in a row. The proposal for a law therefore provides for the CNB to apply the European Central Bank's guidance. This Guideline is of 2016 on the legal framework for accounting and financial reporting in the European System of Central Banks and this Guideline of the European Central Bank would be instead of international standards for financial reporting. Central banks that are not members of the euro system are given the possibility to apply the European Central Bank's guidelines to national currency, so to speak, before the introduction of the euro. This has already been done by Slovakia, Estonia and Latvia, which, among other things, introduced the euro and Poland and Sweden, which apply the European Central Bank's Guidelines to national currency. The implementation of the European Central Bank guidelines will ensure that the accounting rules of the other central banks of the EU Member States are brought closer and support the better preparation of the CNB for the introduction of the euro as an official monetary unit of the Republic of Croatia. The introduction of the European Central Bank's guidelines also subsequently affects the need to amend relevant articles of the applicable law relating to general reserves and the calculation of profits or losses of the CNB, as well as the need to introduce categories of revaluation accounts and risk reservations. In capital, there would no longer be general and special reserves but only general reserves formed to cover the general risks of CNB operations. in accordance with the guidelines, unrealised exchange rate gains and changes in market prices, do not enter the profit and loss report or enter into the financial result. If this guidance were to apply, for example, to the period or period 2018, a profit or gain would be shown. Changes in the schedule and coverage of the loss of the CNB. The income of the CNB is allocated at 20%:80% in such a way that 20% of the shown profits are allocated to the CNB's general reserves while the remaining 80% of the profits are allocated in favour of the state budget. However, if the general reserves are lower than the prescribed amount, the minimum amount will be allocated to the general reserves by decision of the CNB Council and the amount necessary to reach the lower amount of the general reserves. The loss would continue to be first covered by the CNB's general reserves and if the loss is greater than the total reserve amount, the amount of loss exceeding the general reserve level will be covered from profits in the coming years. Introduces the possibility that the interest rate for the cash received by the CNB in the deposit should be negative. The current CNB task, which has been defined as contributing to stability and financial system as a whole, has been expanded in a way that is achieved by implementing the macro-prudential policy implemented by the CNB in accordance with the legal acts of the EU, its institutions and bodies. The new jurisdiction of the Governor himself, or the function of the Governor of the CNB, is also adapted. The area of international reserve management would be regulated in such a way as not to give instructions to individual forms of investment assets but to define international reserves as all forms of assets in foreign currency and precious metals. Security checks shall be introduced in the selection procedure in the context of the recruitment procedure for individual safety-risk jobs. A thorough security check of the candidates would be carried out by the Agency with a security check i.e. Security Intelligence Agency, SOA, and at the request of the CNB. The consolidation of CNB financial reports is regulated in such a way that the consolidation of the company's report in which the CNB has a majority share in capital is prescribed if these companies are individual or collectively relevant to financial reports. It shall be authorised by the CNB to conduct the infringement procedure for which the supervision or supervisory authority is competent and to adopt implementing acts in agreement with the Single Sanantia Committee for the application of the provisions of the Single Sanantia Committee guidelines. The new powers of the CNB Council shall be to decide that a credit institution fails or is likely to fail and to decide on a proposal to open a recovery procedure against a credit institution or to decide on a proposal to launch a bankruptcy proceedings against a credit institution or to decide on the initiation of a forced liquidation procedure of a credit institution. The new powers of the governor are to implement macro-prudential policy and adopt sub-legislative regulations, recommendations, decisions and solutions in the area of macro-prudential policy, to provide for closer conditions and arrangements for the implementation of Sanitary Control and to impose measures on credit institutions in the process of Sanitary Control and to make a solution in the process of Sanitary Control of Credit Institutions. As regards the entry into force of the provisions of this Act, it is proposed that the law enters into force 8 days from the date of its publication in the National Journal other than provisions concerning the application of the guidelines of the European Central Bank in the CNB which enter into force on 1 January 2021, provisions relating to the establishment of close cooperation with the CNB which enter into force with the date of application of the close cooperation and the provisions which enter into force after the introduction of the euro as an official monetary unit of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the second law, therefore, the law amending and supplementing the Law on credit institutions, my introductory part and the reason between the other adoption of this law, can, of course, repeat myself immediately to the measure of the matter, which is that, on the basis of the law supplementing the Credit Institutions Act adopted in July 2019, the power of the European Central Bank was given to carry out a comprehensive assessment of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia prior to the establishment of close cooperation. The European Central Bank has launched a comprehensive evaluation of 5 Croatian banks, Zagrebačka banka, Privredna banka, Ersteiermarkische banka, OTP banka and Croatian Post Banka. The European Central Bank is expected to adopt and consider, on the basis of the final results of the comprehensive assessment, a decision to establish close cooperation. As regards that technical work, also in terms of working group, public consultation, government procedures, almost exactly the same as in the law on amendments and additions to the CNB Act. The relevant Credit Institutions Act provides faith for the establishment, operation and termination of work of credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia, supervisory of their business and the conditions under which legal persons established outside the Republic of Croatia may provide banking and/or financial services in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a law is more detailed in the implementation of the 2014 Regulation. The European Parliament and the Council shall establish uniform rules and a single procedure for the rehabilitation of credit institutions and certain investment companies within the framework of a single recovery mechanism and a single resolution fund. As regards the novelties of this bill, I will first mention that the bill is aimed at achieving legal certainty in relations with credit institutions after the establishment of a close cooperation, specify the activities that the CNB takes in joint proceedings with the European Central Bank and, in particular, in the procedures for granting authorisation for the operation of a credit institution, issuing prior consent to acquire or increase a qualifying share in the credit institution, issuing prior consent to the function of a member of the management of a credit institution or a member of a supervisory board of a credit institution, assessing recovery plans, imposing early intervention measures, giving administrative sanctions. The procedure for issuing administrative sanctions is an administrative procedure conducted by the CNB and constitutes a novelty introduced into the penal system. The proposed amendments allow the CNB to impose measures to be implemented as a result of a comprehensive assessment carried out by the European Central Bank. Furthermore, the applicable law is complemented by provisions on macroprudential policies or measures that the CNB may prescribe to be happy to preserve the stability of the financial system and to avoid and reduce systemic risks. For this purpose, the CNB may, by means of a sublegal act, lay down measures relating to the maximum permitted value ratio of the instrument of insurance of the approved amount of credit, the maximum amount of credit and income incurred by the credit user, the maximum amount of the amount of payment of the payment of the payment of the payment or credit and the income generated by the credit user, the maximum duration of the credit and the requirements related to the method of payment of the credit. The proposed law prescribes the CNB's obligation that, on the basis of the data provided by credit institutions for regulatory needs, it calculates and publishes the national reference rate of the average cost of financing for the Croatian banking sector, the already known NRS rate. This is due to the importance of the NRS as a reference interest rate which serves as a index for determining the variable share of the variable interest rate on consumer loans. By applying the NRS, the Croatian Banking Association shall calculate and publish information based on CNB data on the financing costs of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, due to the fact that the Croatian Credit Liabilities Register suspended the exchange of data for citizens in May 2018, it was proposed to amend the relevant provisions in order to allow the exchange of information necessary to assess the creditworthiness of clients. The exemption from the obligation to keep a bank secret shall be adapted to the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR, in the course of giving the consent to process confidential personal data and, where confidential information about the client is communicated directly to another credit institution and/or to the financial institution or is communicated to a legal person who collects and exchanges creditworthiness data between credit and/or financial institutions and the data are necessary for the assessment of the client's creditworthiness. A legal obligation shall be imposed on credit institutions to exchange minimum regulatory coverage of data relating to the obligations of clients, which are required to assess the creditworthiness of credit risk management. The exchange of information may take place directly between credit institutions through a database managed by a separate legal person, such as HROK or in another appropriate way. Finally, as regards the entry into force, it is therefore proposed that this law also enter into force 8 days from the day of its publication in the National Journal other than the part of the provisions which enter into force on the date of application of the close cooperation of the European Central Bank with the CNB in accordance with the decision of the European Central Bank on the establishment to be published in the official EU list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184744	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184745	Thank you very much. I am looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for 10 minutes to consult on these two proposals of the government's law, the Law on Credit Institutions and the CNB Act as two significant laws that essentially define the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia as currencies. I mean, that should be made clear that this is the preparation of that terrain, however, and the editing of the i.e. adapting the CNB to comply with this. However, a number of issues are being raised here and citizens need to know why the countries did not also enter, introduced the euro such as the Czech Republic, Poland, Denmark, Sweden, which are also in the euro zone, which they have, as we do have the situation, but they do not accept the euro. The people here should know both citizens and MPs, which is why the euro or why they leave the kuna. This should be discussed in public and the opinion should be addressed from experts who have an impact on the economy, on economic growth, on the development and, above all, on the impact on citizens, on the collection. We here absolutely have no relevant factors in the Republic of Croatia by introducing the euro, this is a law to be prepared for is definitely the introduction of the euro. I think this way is one of the worse ways to introduce the euro by shutting down its currency, as it is, is Croatian and I think we should talk about it in a way that experts say what will happen with economic growth. He says yesterday the governor, respected ministers, is a great savings, means part of the savings in the euro, that, the 6% who have left, the 6.6% who pay here, who have evicted our people, who you have sent out here, which you have denied here, means that money, you've driven out, you feed you, you're boasting about it, and basically this is the law on the introduction of the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184746	Thank you, time. Mr. Alexic, he also answered, probably for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184747	I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, asking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives and New Politics to consult on these two laws that are on the agenda. It is about the fact that the monetary system in the Republic of Croatia has been damaged and damaged for the last 15 years, in this regard the CNB as an institution has done nothing, it only cares about the profits of banks, it does not care that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been damaged by just one thieving behaviour of Croatian banks who were convicted in 2014 due to illegal interest in 2019 due to the currency clause, the CNB has done nothing like someone who controls and supervisory to end banking unfair, illegal, criminal behaviour. The CNB had a duty on the basis of the first judgment in 2014 to suspend the behaviour of Croatian banks which applied unfair interest rates. Then the minister does not want to hear it, then the CNB had to interrupt banks in the application of the illegal exchange clause CHF because there is a certain number of loans in which the CHF currency clause continues to be applied and the CNB did not stop it and it was due to the fact that this is the executive part of the ruling in the Franak case, except that banks unfairly negotiated such interest rates, that banks should no longer act accordingly. The CNB had a duty as supervisor, a supervisor to terminate such bank behaviour, to order them to suspend the application of unfair interest rates and to suspend the application of the CHF currency clause in those loans in which such currency clauses continue to be applied. The CNB didn't do it as a supervisor and as a supervisor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184748	Thank you very much. For the purposes of taking a position of clubs and independent representatives, I will give not 10 as much as required but 8.5 minutes of time to consult, consult quickly and come to 1 here, thank you. MEETING IN 12.51 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184749	We will now return to our debate on the united two points. We'll continue with the replicas. First came the Honorable Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184750	Thank you. Ministers of these two laws are essentially preparing for the introduction of EUR into the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that by this law of the CNBs, the CNB is essentially becoming a subsidiary of the European Central Bank and the fact is that Croatia is losing its sovereignty there. And we try it clearly, part of our sovereignty, but without a public debate, a strong debate, and without the people's decision by a referendum, to lose sovereignty, no one has given us this right. Neither those before us who have signed this asked for a referendum nor have we the right to take away this right for the people to decide on this important decision. Here it was just a tribal to remember Stephen Radic, don't grumble like geese in the fog.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184751	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184752	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. So here I sincerely hope that even today, during the debate, we will contribute to this public and reasoned debate for the benefit of all, mainly to Croatian citizens, that, simply and by discussing these two specific laws that define a narrow part of the whole issue of the introduction of the euro, we will open up, or in addition, to present arguments for, arguments against, that we are again on this subject in this one real way, so that, among other things, Croatian citizens are better informed. As for the theme of the referendum, I have to repeat once again that we have said several times that the Republic of Croatia has implemented a referendum on EU accession, it was mostly for and when it signed the accession agreement, practically already with that signature, it has already assumed the obligation to introduce the euro, of course, leaving it still under the question when. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184753	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184754	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister Maric. Why won't I support joining the euro zone? Still above all because the monetary system of the Republic of Croatia has been violated by the robbery of Croatian banks that robbed Croatian citizens. The CNB didn't do anything about it, the government of the Republic of Croatia doesn't do anything about it, and I'm not even talking about some law making, the law is the last thing I care about. I'm more interested in a situation where neither the CNB nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia are taking any action to help citizens get their money and help is possible. In the area of consumer protection, your ministry and the Ministry of Economy and the CNB together, you can all put together a policy that is proactive to Croatian consumers robbed by banks to help these citizens get their money and thus raise the whole situation to a higher level. Powerfully, banks have robbed Croatian citizens, it has been rightly established, you and the CNB must help the citizens get their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184755	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184756	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So I'm going to refer to this part that you said, and I think we can all agree here, which is that we need to do as much as possible on the additional education of our citizens, mostly under the age of the student population, the student population, that, among other things, this financial literacy in the Republic rises to as high levels as possible. As for some of the relationships that you refer to and the sphere of justice and the sphere of responsibility of the CNB, I can't even comment on it, I can only comment on it from our perspective, so a whole series of activities that need to be carried out that people are better informed, and here as Parliament's representative, I hope that you can contribute to that, too, and you yourself, among other things, were in debt in Swiss francs, so I believe that at that point and then there was little more information at your disposal, perhaps some of you would have made different personal decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184757	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184758	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I hope that in a short time, I will be able to formulate the issue precisely. In fact, the CNB has been limited to the implementation of monetary policy so far. Most banks were owned by foreign banks, so they could neutralize actually the monetary policy of the NNB by borrowing their queens in the euro area they are in. My question now is, what will happen to the banks owned by the Republic of Croatia, first of all, is the HPB and the Croatian Bank, when entering the Eurozone, how much will this lack of monetary policy that I believe could have led at least to such an excessive monetary policy, how much will this affect them, and will that mean the end of their business in the Republic? We can see that the HPB was among one of several banks that had a huge profit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184759	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184760	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Well, only this last part of the answer is very short. No, therefore, it will not mean any end of business by entering the euro area for the HPB and any other Croatian bank, which is not an element or reason why a bank could end its business. Well, at the end of the day, I was in the opening and I said HPB is on the list of these largest Croatian banks that are currently under additional supervision and analysis of the quality of the portfolio and what is called coloquial, as well as the essential testing of the bank's resistance to certain shocks or stress that can occur in the financial market, the banking market either locally, whether globally. So I'm an euro area element on that part practically doesn't have a crucial role. And what is important is that HPB as well as any other bank in the Republic of Croatia is important that it conducts operations in accordance with legal regulations, has a strong quality capital base and, of course, does what is expected of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184761	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184762	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. My question regarding the mention of the unique rehabilitation mechanism and the single recovery fund, so I'm just curious now about some transition regarding the DAB, entering the euro area, etc. means that it will now be regulated, since it is likely that part of the funds that are now going to be in the DAB will go into this unique, recovery fund, purely this transition process related to DAB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184763	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184764	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Thank you for this question because it is one in a series of topics that I think should be further clarified. Thus, the unique rehabilitation mechanism as one of the three original and fundamental pillars of the banking union, which was implemented first and second, thus a unique supervisory mechanism for the supervisory of the supervisory system and the others that have already practically revived. With that act and through the accession of this close cooperation with the European Central Bank, it also comes to the obligation to transfer and deposit part of these funds from the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks and to provide savings deposits to this unique recovery committee, or to the Fund. What is important is that colleagues from the Croatian agency as well as other institutions are also leading this dialogue to make it simply unequivocal how much it will be, where we are practically going for years, we are counting on it from this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184765	The next replica of the respected representative, Lovrinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184766	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, you see two things, one of the things by this bill is that you want to prevent the People's Bank from losing so much in the future, and it's made 3.5 billion kunas of loss. Why? Are you introducing new accounting rules to protect them from the negative exchange rate differences that make the loss, but you will keep it for banks, businesses, etc., I will talk about it later. Secondly, you haven't said a word about building a CNB vault, you're already looking at the land, and since you're looking at this law to declare it a strategic, strategic initiative, read well, I've read if you haven't, you've obviously become a liquid Vujčić, you're just passing a law, a proposal, and they've written it, therefore, and you know what the feature is if, in that case, you don't need a public tender but a direct contract, and it costs hundreds of millions of kuna, maybe a billion according to my information, please inform yourself, [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184767	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184768	Thank you well-respected MPs and professors, I've always been nice to you, and you've always made me ugly names, but it doesn't matter, I won't blame you this time, so I'm nobody's running, I'm doing and I'm acting my duty, yesterday you had the governor of the CNB here you could ask him every possible detail of the business of the CNB and everything that's related between other things and the construction and formation of that vault as well as any other element, I can only say so as to the formal procedure as defined, so the government of the Republic of Croatia is the proposing of these laws, I'm here to talk about them, to suggest them, to argue with you, to answer all the questions, but also by respecting what is among others in the basic acts of the Republic and recorded, and this is the independence of the CNB, however, I repeat, you've had enough arguments yesterday through the debate... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184769	Comrade Lovrinović, don't yell from the bench... No, I'm giving you a warning, that's enough of that. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184770	I'm not running away, but I refer to your address to me, so that's how I answer to you among other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184771	That's enough of that rudeness. The next replica is the respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184772	Thank you, Vice-President, Your Honor, so it's hard to talk a little bit now, but what I wanted to say is that yesterday, when you come to the line for the replica after an hour and a half after you've raised it, then maybe it's a little bit of a loss of meaning, but what I wanted to say is that yesterday, when we're discussing the CNB report, we've talked a lot about the introduction of the EUR which was the main topic, which was essentially the whole debate, I see that this is going to be today, and I think it's a good thing, and in fact these changes are practically one of the first step of preparing for the introduction of EUR into the Republic, and I think that this debate should be argued with the facts, and then we can talk about different views, but without any populist pausing, and therefore, in my individual debate, I'll look back to that way I said yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184773	Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184774	Thank you very much, Your Honor, so thank you for the replica and, and that is, in some way, I think in the interest and expectations of us, among other things, and during today's debate, should be in this direction, everyone who looks and listens and follows that they have some additional arguments, I think about this very analysis of the arguments for and against, pluses and minuses, whatever they call them, I always think that we should just as you have said the argumented debate, personally I am even prone to talk first about potentially negative elements that they would not be interpreted as being on the side or hiding, so in each of these elements if citizens say that among others one of the main reasons why they are not to introduce the EUR is the potential fear of inflation, offered experiences from previous parents and older populations very well followed by this value and the other elements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184775	Thank you very much. Would the representative like to take a word from the committee? No, then I'll open the debate, but before I give my word to the honourable MP, I'd just like to announce that we're going to be working today for 5 hours and 45 minutes, so you know how to schedule your time, and first, on behalf of the GLAS Club, the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184776	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister with co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the CNB Act is without any doubt and no one is concealing it, nor is there any reason to conceal it is an important step in adapting the CNB and rules governing its business and reporting on the way to the introduction of EUR into the Republic of Croatia. We can now open a debate on whether now is the right time, whether it is possible to postpone the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Eurozone, etc., so it is without further discussion, but the fact that the Republic of Croatia's entry into the Eurozone or the fact of the introduction of the euro area has been decided by entering the EU or by signing an access contract in which it is clearly written, in which it is clearly accepted by Croatian citizens, of course it is when conditions are met, what is the usual phrase, in other words when it is considered economical, but I would say so and politically important, necessary for the Republic of Croatia as well. On that path, or in that procedure, the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Eurozone, which I said we accepted and confirmed. The Republic of Croatia must first commit itself to joining the European Course Mechanism, which means the close cooperation of the CNB with the European Central or Central Bank and the entry into a single recovery mechanism, namely the Eurozone, so to speak, the recovery mechanism. This law provides for or determines the takeover of credit institution credit quality control tasks in the Republic of Croatia by the European Central Bank. By law, I cite only some of the elements, the minister said everything to me, the law also introduces the possibility of using negative interest rates as a monetary policy instrument, changes the provisions relating to general reserves and the calculation of CNB's profits, extends the powers of CNB Governor to implement and control macro-prudential policy. In other words, these amendments and additions shall be brought into line with the European Central Bank guidelines, including the laws adopted in the Republic of Croatia since 2013. to facilitate the entry into the Eurozone. As I said, we took this obligation and confirmed by signing and then by ratifying the Croatian EU accession treaty and the only topic in this regard could be the moment. When? Is this the right time? In addition, the times have changed, so today somehow it has become not to say fashion, but unfortunately quite broadly accepted violations of international contracts and so it could be argued or at least advocated the thesis that regardless of what we have signed that we will enter the Eurozone that we will crush our signature or that we will not respect the international treaty that we have joined. That is why I will give a conditionally stronger reason, even though I am a great opponent of being trampled, trampled out by my own word, and especially signed international contracts, but let's say one pragmatic reason for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Eurozone, which is Croatian interest. As we witness on a daily basis, the EU or Member States or the EU is in an unusual position, which is that regardless of its economic strength, it is on the strength of the joint GDP of the Member States towards the presence of a global in, from development aid to investments at the same time in a phase in which it must decide and in which it must be profiled as a geopolitical force or not a defacto step towards dissociating and weakening its own influence, a weakening of its own global role, it is not only contrary to what the new president of the Commission has announced, it is contrary to Croatia's direct interest. Not to go further than our neighborhood, from our neighborhood, look at what's happening in Montenegro, it's one of the again crawling attempts of a coup, instability is something that in Southeast Europe is unfortunately largely on the agenda at the moment, and the only thing that can prevent that destabilisation and instability is the European project, as neither NATO has been able to prevent. My opinion that the EU has made a mistake, or the Council, when negotiations with or at least gave a date for the start of negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania, I hope that this will now be corrected and that this date will now be given, but what among other things is a weak chance of Europe becoming a geopolitical factor, therefore having some real political power in common and this Europe, at this time there are two elements which, based on which Member States differ, are one membership or not membership in the Eurozone, so the membership of the Eurozone or not, and the other is Schengen, fortunately and for now, it is both decisive, so both are something that countries can gradually qualify for. At this point, regardless of my opinion on all other arguments, the Republic of Croatia is in the interest of being part of not only the first group of member states but also of entering that first group of EU Member States, not only to contribute, but also to ensure politically how theoretically possible it is in today's circumstances. Therefore, the GLAS Club will, given the function of this law, which is promoting Croatia to say so by at least this criterion in the first group of EU member states, support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184777	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184778	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with their co-worker, as I said this was essentially, laws, preparation, i.e. As the minister says, it is an obligation to prepare everything for the introduction of the EUR into the Republic of Croatia. I also said through the replica, I remembered the words of Stjepan Radić, who said, “Let us not gush like geese in the fog. ” I said this not in a bad way but to think carefully about what we are doing, to look at the current experiences of the countries that have introduced the EURo which are much less than any of them, than other countries when there would be a crisis, an example of Greece, so what would happen in these situations, to happen in stronger Member States and in general when we talk about introducing a new meaning of the EUR, and when we call on the EUR here we are now leading the prime minister circularly, so we cyclically lead the EU, we are in, i.e. Presides in the Republic of Croatia. I think this is a question, a question that experts should discuss, not just parliamentary representatives, and that this is a question of general people's interest and that ultimately it can be decided solely by the people. It's kind of my attitude I'm giving. I only give it up when I listen, read, and follow everything you say was these two laws, and here's the first thing I'm going to do with the CNB Act. Yesterday there were two reports for last year that half-year gave this governor. The fact that so far Croatia's unhappiness and I have also said to non-national banks, now that I don't list all the facts, it loses sovereignty. With this law, the CNB loses sovereignty, surrenders to the European Central Bank at this time, and now the adoption of this law by the CNB is an exposition and de facto is now becoming, and so far it has been, of course, just not confirmed by this document that I hope we will not just vote it without any broader debates. The only thing that will remain sovereign in the CNB is for Governor Vujčić to orderly call competitions on how to love for mastersshefs and kuara how to love, which are professional dishes, to love fish, to bring down fish with various wines, now which fish will remain his only sovereignty and the much greater impact of wages than the parliamentary representatives have, so he simply remains his respected ministers. I think that the Croatian people do not deserve to make decisions in this way against the will of the citizens. And that's what the CNB showed because the survey was conducted, so the CNB was conducting a survey that says 50% of the citizens are against the EUR, so that's what the CNB said. And those which are the introduction of the EUR that are only in the period, the majority of these are that in a period of 10 years minimum to see everything, all indicators. I know that the prime minister and the governor with a good shot-out fish, probably also a loving wine with that fish now that the fish is working or I don't know what fish they're using right now, that it's probably appropriate for them to say right now here we are, the EU, and we brought it here. But are we going to ask the people something? There's something to ask the people, and is there going to be an expert debate? So this is what I'm setting up as a representative chosen by some kind of legislator, a representative of the people in this body, and it's mine to ask what's being put in public and what our citizens are talking about. What are they afraid of? Who guarantees that it will be better when the EURo is introduced to our citizens, that it will be cheaper prices or that there will be the same prices or that they will be paid better? I'm afraid of the example so far, which happened in other countries, that prices were rising and wages remained the same. So we have countless questions to discuss. Not unilaterally from the position of some expert representing some position, I am in favour of the EUR, however, I believe that the trial would be professionally, publicly and transparently within a reasonable time, but to open the debate and literally referendum drip to see the views of experts for, against, and so far experience we have had in other countries. Because the fact that countries that are much stronger than us in the EU are longer than we are, more developed than we are, they don't want the EURo. We have the Czech Republic, we have Poland, we have Sweden, we have Denmark, so we have our neighbours of Hungary. So we have many countries in our environment in this EU that do not want the EURo. A number of reasons last night, the governor said here, which is why EURo, the savings are the largest in the EUR, says 70% of Croatian savings are in 70% in the EUR, and I also have an argument that 6.6% of GDP from those who moved out of our citizens who knew about it, that is a threshold of CNB data that has passed, and how many dry people who earn out and give to their family had two-thirds of Croatia empty. And of course, at this point, 20 billion kunas come from evicted people, and that's a bad policy, I've been saying it for days, I've been warning here for days. I was told that these were the bumps, the prime minister was telling me what I was saying, until in one medium then after a few days it wasn't published, as the money is still coming back out, it was more here to somehow soften what I was saying, of course because I'm being watched by a man not an expert. No, I'm just an agent, and it's my job to ask questions with people who are from professions who tell me to ask these questions from ordinary citizens if people are afraid, they're afraid. And Kuna is basically Croatian Kuna is a thing, it's not easy to pass through me, it's Croatian money, it's one of the symbols, so when Croatia was created there was a Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder, here are the HDZ gentlemen who will know better about it and the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket. Unfortunately, the CNB when we look at how she's been acting so far, we see that. We see in this second law that the Bank of Zagreb, I don't know, listed five banks that will be controlled by the European Central Bank, will make some kind of pattern of what's going on, so the Croatian banks, they do business in Croatia, they were given a long time ago for free, they went into other people's hands long ago. So in this law itself, it is said that Croatian banks will be controlled, they only operate in Croatia, they may have the name of a single Croatian. I thought the minister here would try harder through this law to come or explain what Croatian banks are doing to pay for the PR to lobby with Croatian institutions. So it can't happen in the normal state that a public call for a lobbying contest in the constitutional court, it's a direct blow to the constitutional order, so maybe they're... lobbying with you here in Parliament. I think that in this House we have to discuss openly, and when it comes to stability and about everything I don't know what would happen. Here comes the Great Britain, she's gone, she's come forward what would happen if a couple of members came out of the EU if they were threatened, and I don't think they're that stupid. Great Britain so she came out of her head, I won't enter into their cause, but the people decided, the people decided, and he came out. Therefore, I believe that in this way without a wider debate, without the will of the people, without a people who, by a referendum, will direct democracy to tell whether it is for the abolition of the Croatian kuna and I think it is pointless, that this is a hoax, that we do not have a public debate. We don't have good arguments, we don't have good arguments, you and the government have these positions, we have to, we have to introduce the euro, I don't see any other arguments. Why doesn't the Czech Republic say, Denmark must, Sweden, Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, too, introduced Greece, too, and I think if we have positive and negative examples and citizens are afraid for their standard, and the CNB is a folk thread, I think it's folk to still be in the vaults of gold. So we're the only state without gold. So I just don't know, I read this, but here's what I said at the beginning: this is the introduction to kill the euro, these are laws that are being prepared, the CNB loses sovereignty absolutely, it becomes a branch, it's the only thing I've ever said that's becoming sovereign in calling a competition for the master's red wallpaper, the downside fish, the kissing of quality wines, and one thing that stays. What are the positive things, probably the minister will say it better, positive things, last night the governor, who was simply either a vice governor or a governor when the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia was at stake, when the stability council did not respond, when Todorovic and his Agrokor corporation spent 10 billion kuna, 10 billion bonds without cover either, so he paid by human paper and he threatened stability. That CNB doesn't protect our citizens, the CNB tribal is just doing its job when it appears so-called. Swiss franc credits. They founded the agency, i.e. Directorate to monitor consumer protection. What's he doing? I mean, what's he doing at this point in time to protect our citizens from cameraing, from seeing the integrity of the contract? Here we are colleagues and colleagues, passing a two-thirds unanimity law of the contract savings credit cooperatives i.e. institutions such as Raiffeisen are a savings credit cooperative and this law is not respected, unanimously. At that time proposed by fellow Scybol, it was at that moment of overcoming whether there was one hand or two missing, ministers couldn't sit and at that moment and what now, here came the Parliament by two-thirds of the majority unanimously, more than when the Constitution was passed, that law from the integrity of that contract. Still these people are taking their interest, taking away theirs, so the CNB isn't doing its job right now. So here I am, finally, just once more and repeat the key, we lose the ministers with this decision without the people's decision, we crash. We have negative experiences in another country, it's not only that it's said yesterday that it's... to talk about the kuna nationalists as if you're representing something, not that I'm thinking as a parliamentary representative where I'm going to watch, listen, but without the public debate of the professional and referendum decisions of the people on such an important topic, this is the betrayal of us MPs if we vote this out, this is high treason, without the will of the people, to attach part of sovereignty, to the CNB being the establishment of the European People's Bank, the establishment and that this is essentially the beginning of the introduction of the EUR and that the public must know what we are discussing, at least to know that we are discussing, that these laws are essentially what they are. Here I would only ask the Minister when the arguments for EUR, let him say his position why not, why not the referendum, why the Czech Republic and these countries do not introduce other countries that are more developed Poland, Sweden, Denmark, Hungary and other countries that I am counting on, which are more developed than us, and also the state of Romania, Bulgaria and others, and those who have introduced them had shocks at prices, to the standard of citizens, to the standard of ordinary man, and we Assembly representatives would have to insist in this, in these decisions when it comes to such decisions, when we talk about a new currency, the introduction of a new currency, the abolition of the kuna, then we would have to, basically, this is the process, the arrival of that phase, when the CNB becomes a central European bank, then a good trial would think about what we are voting at this moment, we will give 10, in 2 and 5 years. The power to look people in the eye if they are bad decisions, therefore the people must decide in a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184779	Thank you. A colleague of Lovrinovic's raised his hand, I assume he's looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184780	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here on behalf of the Representatives' Club, let's change Croatia, the Living Wall, looking for a 10 minute break, namely let me explain about this item on the agenda, a proposal to amend the CNB Act because I noticed, we noticed that the Minister of Finance, Dr. Maric here when I asked him about the vault, about building a new HNB vault, he declared me a Malta not that I didn't read it, and I don't know what I'm talking about, so now I'm going to read it to you, so in the current article. 2., listen well writes, and the proposal is a third article written, I will be adding quotes, locations, building vaults and vault business of the CNB are of particular importance for the financial, economic, security of the interest of the Republic, and for the defence of the Republic of Croatia, the respected minister may well have thought of what it is, nothing, but you probably don't know that in the Public Procurement Act, if something like this is declared of national interest to the security and for the defence then you don't need a public tender, it probably, I want to protect you because when it is declared as an important institution and works, I ask you, as a minister of finance and a member of the Government, to see everything that happens because the vault, the Treasury business is not yet known to us in terms of publicity, that there is no longer any reason to speak to the public, nor to speak of the truth, nor to speak of the truth, or to the truth, which you are more important to the public, and to be true, and to the truth, and to the fact that you know that the truth of the truth, and the truth, which you know that you are not to the truth, the truth, the truth, and the truth, the truth, the truth of which you know that you know that the truth, the truth, and the truth, and the truth, and the truth, and the truth, and the truth, and the truth of the truth, and the truth, and the truth, which you know that you know that you know that you are not of the truth, and the truth, and the truth, and the truth, and the truth, and the truth and the truth of the truth of the truth of the truth of the truth of the truth, the truth, the truth, the truth, the truth, the truth of the truth of which you know that you know that you know that you know that you know that you know that you know that you know that you know that you know that you know that you and the truth of the truth and the truth of the truth, the truth and the truth of the truth, the truth, the truth of the truth of the truth and the truth of the truth of the truth, the truth, the truth, the truth, the truth of the truth, the truth, the truth of the truth, the truth, the truth and the truth and the truth, the right Talk. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184781	I think he's looking for a break and a respected representative... Here you go. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184782	I do not thank the Vice President that I am looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club, in order to consult further on this point, namely in view of the recent statement and the presentation of other colleagues, I have to imagine myself well when someone mentions the word of high treason, what we are doing here, in which way we, who and how we are doing it, because when we look at all the facts and arguments, everything other than smart entry into this system in which we are already very strong and fat, would be the high-ranking interest of the Croatian citizen here and directly do the interests of Croatian citizens who today buy a car in EUR, real estate in EUR, have savings in EUR, credits in EUR and our currency is still covered in EUR, so what we do not want to do, we do not like, someone today, we do not like, because we are already at all the risks of the risks of the interest, so much, we are not so much more important, but we do not all of the money, because we do not want, we do not want to the money, because we do so much of the money, because of the money, because we do not want, because we do not want, because we do not want, because we do not know the money, because of the money, because of the money, because of the money, because we are not, we do the money, because of the money, because we do the money, because we do the money, because we do the money, because we do the money, because we don’.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184783	Thank you. Someone else is looking for a break, if I don't, of course, take a break by 14.34. [[MEETING IN 14.24 HOURS]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.34 HOURS]] Here's a respected colleague and co-worker's break expired, so now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Boris Lalovec will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184785	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, dear Ministers with Associates, here is today the debate that we started somewhere yesterday on monetary policy and on, and today with concrete proposals of the CNB Act and on credit institutions that are being adopted to bring us closer to the ultimate goal, means the introduction of the EUR as a legal means of payment to the Republic of Croatia, as a Member State that is now outside the European Union, it must be obliged to provide European, join the European Course Mechanism by establishing, which was established by the Resolution of the European Council of '97. In this respect, the Republic of Croatia shall apply for the entry into the European Course Mechanism 2, in addition to the obligation to join the mechanism, to further commit to, to enable close cooperation between the CNB and the European Central Bank. In this regard, it is necessary to approach the amendments to certain legal regulations, as well as the amendments to the CNB Act where it is possible to establish, this cooperation between the European Central Bank and the CNB as well as the entry into a single rehabilitation mechanism, and to implement further harmonisation of the provisions that take effect on the day of introduction of the EUR as an official monetary unit of the Republic of Croatia, so that we know that 20% of GDP makes us tourism, and in fact the most important currency that we receive through tourism is actually EUR, and also the largest part of the EU funds are actually received today in the euro, all of which provide a certain part of the greenfield investment, which is essential in terms, which is the most important part of the euro area is the euro area. where a number of Croatian citizens remember those tough scenes in Greece and the three that came to Greece about, for, for, for their banking system, there were also numerous signs of the euro crisis in Italy and the euro crisis in Spain, in larger, larger areas, then, the serious debate in the European circles was being conducted in EUR, the EUR at more speed, means with a higher degree of integration of the economy and, respectively, those countries that do not join Europe, means that a lower degree of integration, means that this area will not only be unilaterally entered into the EUR, the European Community means even closer cooperation, economic co-operation between individual countries, individual Member States, so that a number of other laws will probably change if, ultimately, and not only as an economic decision, but it is one and it is primarily a political decision, meaning not only the introduction of the euro, but as a political decision, but as well as a political and... that through this debate, we have heard here today whether it will be referendums, whether it will be some sort of HS decision, whether it will probably be some new law, the introduction of the Law on the EUR or some other, so it is likely that these further discussions on entering Europe, Europe, will be. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, these legislative proposals also amend the way in which the CNB financial reports are drawn up so that the CNB has from now on to apply the guidelines of the European Central Bank on the legal framework for accounting and financial reporting, application, application of the ECB guidelines, is mandatory for the European banks of the Eurosystem for accounting purposes and financial reporting purposes, but their application is also recommended to the maximum extent possible for the national and financial reports of the National Central Banks. This draft law prescribes the obligation to apply the ECB guidelines in the CNB as of 1 January 2021, and the introduction of guidelines has a particular impact on the need to amend relevant articles of the law relating to general reserves, we have heard here from the Minister, it seems to me that today is 50:50 payments to the budget or is the higher ratio, how much in the CNB they pay in the budget, the ratio of payment to the CNB... Right now it's zero that, but this good one because of these... [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] However, this is, now changing 80:20, now it is, so these new changes will make more payments in the state budget that part gets the CNB, here we heard from the minister, meaning that the current payment is a lot or is not there. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also means that the Croatian part will change the system of general reserves, as well as the introduction of certain revaluation accounts and risk reservations, as well as certain further guidelines. In the second law when it comes to credit institutions, the applicable Credit Institutions Act is amended and complemented by essential activities in order to achieve legal certainty in relation to credit institutions after a zero establishment of close cooperation, means an authorisation for work in a credit institution, the issuing of prior consent to acquire and increase a qualifying share in a credit institution, and the issuing of a prior consent to perform the function of a member of the credit institution's administration and of a member of the credit institution's supervisory board. Also there are introductions and newspapers are actually... certain administrative sanctions, an administrative procedure which will now be conducted by the CNB and ceases, this is a certain novelty in the penal system, will enable the competent amendments to impose measures that will be necessary as a result of a comprehensive assessment under way by the ECB. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also here today there have been speeches about certain macroprudential measures, I do not know that today, even today, the CNB also has sublegal acts, and this one is being resolved for the purpose of saying today that in order to prescribe the stability of the financial system, avoiding the reduction of systemic risks, which seems to me to have already been approached by the CNB regarding these cash, cash non-intentional loans, this one here is said that sublaws can now prescribe measures relating to the relationship between the permitted ratio of the instruments in cooperation and the approved amount of credit. A relationship means collateral and what you can get credit for, the biggest. So the allowed ratio between loans, here they say in income law, at the debate in the assembly we said that we would see whether there would be income or whether there would be total income, that's what we said that even through this particular question is income one category, and in Croatia the receipts are actually a much wider category than the income generated by the credit user. Then the ratio between the ratio of the amount of the payment of the loan rate and the income generated by the credit user. So, it's important to the citizens, so here it's legal, sub-conclusive acts, it seems to me that today it's the same as the sublaws this part, the CNB that regulates this part of their business, and today from the Croatian banking association, this obligation to calculate the NRS as the national reference rate that I think the Croatian Bank Association is using today, and the data will mostly be transferred to the CNB. And what the minister was saying at the opening was actually related to the credit-user register of the so-called so-called credit-user. the deadline and that it will allow the exchange of information necessary to assess the creditworthiness and everything in accordance with GDPR. So this is a certain legislative amendment that goes into second reading, which today was largely related to the political decision on whether or not the EUR-o is in Croatia. There have been numerous facts here today that accounts and real estate are done in most euro today, when you buy a particular vehicle you usually denominate it in the EUR, and even some kind of pay people communicate more with the euro area. It's just from our history. However, it is very important here whether there will be any additional ones and what the euro area will be in 2023, '24, '25. This is what no one knows yet, that is, whether there will be any additional requirements, in which the euro area will move, whether it will require stronger integration of the economy whether it will require a certain part except for this part of the transfer of monetary sovereignty to the European Central Bank through the single capital market, through a single banking union, we forget that we have also adapted all other laws, or so the Capital Market Act, on banking business, means a whole set of laws, not only these two we have actually adapted to the single European market through the many directives we have discussed here and adopted, so this is just one additional part of the set of these laws. However, it is legitimate to ask what and how the euro area will be in 2025, whether some new crisis in Italy or Spain will change the entire euro area system. So it's no longer a problem for the smaller of these border countries because all of these border countries are actually Greece, Italy, Spain, so all of these border countries have shaken up a very euro area, and in fact, most of the way we're going to be on some kind of front door in 2024 and '25. The year will certainly depend on these large countries, primarily Italy, how they will deal with the euro, how their economy will cope, what their problems in the banking sector and the very high level of NPLs will do in Spain. Surely this dynamic of these large countries will also affect Croatia when one day we have to decide whether to enter the EURo or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184786	Thank you very much. Next, the next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184787	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and I particularly welcome you esteemed citizens who are following us, if you can track us because these topics are not reported no transmission on HRT, it is otherwise democratic public television in fact typical party television where the opposition has no opportunity to perform, and this opposition called the biggest and the right it is actually far from it, we can make them quite even with one and the other, etc., but I won't talk about it. Today, the topic of the new law is to amend the HNB Act and credit institutions, so instead of discussing banks in particular, there are big problems, let's put this under one thing and so that the sooner we finish, don't worry about it, so let's try to do something in these few minutes. You can see why there was no reason to change this National Bank Act, and it could have implemented all links for the European Central Bank under the existing law. But two things here are the key to seeing. In 2017, the CNB achieved a total loss of 3 billion kuna in 2018, and such loss in 2 years was achieved by no one, nor Agrokor as a major concert, no one. And no one, rather than we expected the citizens to answer, to be replaced, not that leadership got a mandate for another 6 years, but it was also given a mission from this government to push the EURo project, and now that they, so if you want to get a new position to hold, you have to push the EURo project, praise the media, it's a propaganda machine that works well, it's always the same economists back 20 years with some of their rejuvenations. There is no serious debate, the academic community, but it is pushed politically as everything was pushed, and in fact, deeper and deeper pushes us into the living mud of those who have led us so far. So that's the story of why it's being imposed, which means why the CNB Act is changing, now to prevent losses, and otherwise it's not burned or reminded that the current governor actually chose the SDP. And why HDZ kept it, so you see how well they fit, how they cooperate well, how they have the same policy, and you see the euro, they think the same thing. So they would introduce the euro tomorrow and it's not a problem for them, and those who are considered some liberals there and they don't understand it at all, give everything someone wants and that's it. So it's a circus as you see dear citizens here and it's supposed to be in the election shift just you know, here 80%, 90% of people have nothing to look for, but we'll wait for the election. Now what's next? So what's the task of amending this CNB Act? Keep the current leadership from losing again. And how? So introduce new accounting standards by which the negative exchange rate differences that arise for foreign reserve management will no longer be recorded as so far, this has always been done as a loss, it is recorded as loss and banks and businesses, but now it will not be worth it to the CNB. You can see how you, not there, are protecting yours and up to the board, but it is more important for you to protect that institution and those people, even though Croatia has failed. Here's your patriotism and it's only important to put your hand, which, left, right on the heart and push on. Well, what's next? The second reason is also very important, why this law was passed here in Parliament. You see, I was just a moment ago, the minister disappeared, and I'm sorry that he left, but he was obviously struck by what I quoted. In the proposal, Art. 2. Amendments to the article of the existing 2 are said that the construction of vaults where the vault business is taking place, done, this, that etc., that it has to be considered a security issue, a matter of importance for national defence. But there is one catch, every project that is meant to build a new vault that is being built, he says that if it is declared to have this status that it has a security mark for national defence, and that project does not have to go to a public tender under the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, according to some indications, land around Zagreb is already being sought and it is already said to cost several hundred million kunas, and then a direct contract goes. You need not further explain how it is done in Croatia. Well, that's why we're rare here in the Parliament that we've come here, we've opened the issue of the CNB, the banking system, the euro, swearing about it before no one here is supposed to, but shouldn't have buzzed. We brought it to the big door and we believe and ask the citizens to support us even more strongly so that we can clean up and finally move Croatia in the right direction. So building a vault, it's a right, these two means preventing this management from continuing despite its inability and making huge losses in foreign reserve management, and now accounting standards will protect it, and the second is to enable the construction of the vault without a public tender. And where has the vault been so far? Well, he was where he was. So how come it wasn't a matter of national defense security so far? Well, you see, we'll obviously answer that question in the days and months to come. Now let's do some other questions about this topic. I remind you once again that the CNB central bank in each country is one of the headquarters institutions. And why? Because in that institution, it's made, it's made money. And our people say, the people are smart, that money spins where the drill can't. Therefore, there is a Bulgarian saying that you can't buy money can be bought with a lot of money. Therefore, this institution is important. Now, if this institution is working in the interest of fostering the development of the economy, the well-being of citizens, it's like a balm to you, but if this institution has been doing the opposite of the interests of the economy for years, it's destroying it with an unreal course since '94. years, so high interest rates, interest rates, lets banks interest citizens in the case of Franak, RBA cooperative, then you have an institution that helps suck up the accumulation, suck up the savings or medically to say that someone is being sucked out of blood, and the cardiovascular system feeds all the cells of the organism, if he's threatened by the organism, and so it's here. So, you see to us this institution with these additional amendments to the law, it's not enough for this institution to be as independent as it was 110%, which is the present intention, but without any responsibility. So you have complete independence, freedom, but the responsibility of the gentlemen is gone, dear citizens. So it's important to talk about these topics, it's important to say how things are. And of course yesterday you saw that the governor was furious here, I never had him in these three, four years in the Parliament that he lost his temper because he obviously saw, aware of the problems and the losses he had. And not only that, the National Bank, under its leadership in just 3.4 years, owed Croatia 3 billion euros in the external debt structure of the Croatians, it says in their newsletter. And when you're in charge of the state, plus 3 billion euros, then your credit rating is dropping, and they could have had a higher credit rating, lower interest rates abroad, it's all connected. So here, fortunately, came people who can interpret things scientifically, argued how it is, not propagandaally, and by order of your great boss here across the street that sits. But you'll be dealing with him soon enough anyway. I wish him good luck. Now, let's move on. What I'm saying is, I didn't come to the assembly to tell stories or make some circus turns out here, but let's see what the credit policy of banks and NHB looks like. So here's what it looks like, you see, the CNB is in, in fact, the banking system approved a total of 259 billion kuna loans in 2019, but you know how approved by the banking system is by the distribution of these loans. 121 billion were granted to citizens, 40 billion to the state, and to entrepreneurs only 80 billion. Watch out in a normal country, the reverse economy should get 120 billion, and citizens 80, 90. Why? Because that's where the products are made. And why is she here, why did she drink in here turn upside down? So the state and the people of the banks get 69% of all loans, so that's a clear thing to drink the branch on which to sit and go in the wrong direction. See, that's how it's exhausting. So why are the citizens so credited? So these citizens when they get loans they mostly buy dominant import goods, right, and they buy import goods from exactly those countries whose banks own our banks here. So why? So they are not crazy to encourage the competition of Croatian producers to compete with them. For 24 years, the National Bank has maintained the stability of the foreign exchange exchange exchange rate, that they have no currency risk. That's what banks do, so they can drive out loans without having currency risk. But in all of this, manufacturers collapse, the industry that has to, means where the exchange rate is important, and for 25 years, the policy of the unrealistic exchange rate is being conducted. And you see, that's the problem. So we're talking about what the credit policy of the banking system is for. We see that it is facing the resolution of unemployment abroad, the purchase of their goods, and Croatia you manage as you know and can. Their concept was, it was simply the devil's circle closed, so the more you approve credit to citizens, they buy more foreign goods, the more we buy foreign goods, the more the balance of payments collapses because we have more deficits and we increase external debt. And it's this devil's circle that you don't just want to break up, you feed it, so you encourage it, so you're in power now. So, respected citizens are not my intention with this means that I'm putting in extra fear, not on the contrary, but to show you that we know exactly what we need to do, microscopically, that there are solutions that we can do and that there are people in Croatia who change this unbearable situation. And what has this policy led to? You see here the government boasts that it reduces the number of unemployed, so of course because it is constantly exporting abroad, so by exporting young people it reduces unemployment, it boasts. He says the pay's growing, you see that's one of the bigger lies. According to data I mentioned yesterday, I will repeat the United Union Institute, European trade unions have dropped 5% in Croatia over the past 10 years. In translation, the worker today in Croatia can buy less than 5% of what he could buy 10 years ago. And why is that? Because the National Bank has frozen the exchange rate, it leads it to 25 years fixed, does not change it and the only way to increase the competitiveness of Croatian exports is to cut people's wages and it's called internal devaluation. All this stuff I'm saying is it's gone and Greece's gone. The country will not be saved within the euro zone, its public debt is growing again, it is the EU's hardest patient, not the only one. Britain came out the other day, she never intended to introduce the EURo. Let me say a few more words about the EUR. It's a political question, you see. We are not at all economically ready, especially in this situation of destabilization of the EU zone, Britain, in Spain's political problems Catalonia, etc., Denmark does not want, and the richest, Sweden's richest does not want. I was in Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary before summer they just smile at me when I ask them, so you're great at standing why you don't introduce EURO, he says listen, so we're doing great with our currency that's up to you. So, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we have knowledge, we have professions, we have experience we will not let live mud continue to be pushed aside from this mere speech for a pay phone in the assembly, we have begun to raise criminal charges against the CNB, and we have done so I guess that yesterday the governor was further nervous and humiliated the MPs here, but our time is coming to say enough because we are fighting for our children, for our country and respected citizens support us in all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184788	The HDZ advocates' club also reported for participation in the debate. On their behalf, they'll be told by counsel Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, so listening to yesterday's debate on the report on the financial situation in the Republic of Croatia and listening to today's discussions on these two laws, I am asking myself a question, is one such chaotic state of the EU's father, in fact, accepted to be its full member, and also, is one such a chaotic state, with such a chaotic situation, the European Central Bank has practically entered the European Course Mechanism. That's just the question that we all need to ask together when we hear stories like this, because who wants a mess in their own house, nobody. There's always trouble, and now you're going to suddenly one country that's as uninteresting as some say or interesting when they're told interesting, now all of a sudden it's in force you want to get yourself into it. That is what those who have not participated in the painful negotiations Croatia has conducted to become a member of the EU say. Let me ask you colleagues and colleagues one basic question. What would be the situation in Croatia today if we were not an EU member, starting with what is happening in our neighborhood? So that we did not become members of NATO's alliance and the EU until the economic situation. Could many Croatian entrepreneurs who are free to export to the European market today do so if Croatia were not an EU member? Would many unfortunately our citizens who have not found a satisfactory job in the Republic of Croatia be able to go looking for a job? And would my colleague Bulj spend so much time talking about how many leads are on the outside that we are not members of the EU? It is unfortunately the fate of all new members, unfortunately fate. Because when you look at those 10 countries that have entered far before us, unfortunately and from them many, many young people have gone to older EU members. It's unfortunately fate. However, colleagues and colleagues in order to become part of something then you must accept certain rules of the game. Also, when Croatia finished negotiations, when it signed an agreement on the conclusion of the negotiations, we made a commitment to do certain things. At the time, there were no big halls on certain issues, and among other things, we made a commitment to introduce the EURo. That was almost eight years ago. Then why is it that all those people who shout so much today, why didn't they raise their voice? Why didn't they say, we like this, us like that? However, it should also be said that no one, no government, no finance minister, no governor of the central bank is in the interest that when Croatia meets all the conditions to enter the euro zone, it is not in the interest that the application will be made. It's just a fact. But colleagues and colleagues, I would only ask you one question. Are you in favour of Croatia being in a position to enter the European zone or are you in favour of having a major deficit in the state budget, having macroeconomic imbalances like they had 4-5 years ago? Mr. Chairman? Look very funny, I like young funny people, but behind wit usually needs to be something. So, if we looked at the Republic of Croatia's budget before joining the EU and after joining the EU, we would see big differences, but then on that. So what Croatia is definitely waiting for, if we want to have better macroeconomic indicators than we have today, even though they are good today compared to most European countries, we need to implement reforms. But look, colleagues and colleagues, today you've had very little chance to hear that all the clubs that spoke before the HDZ Club have called for a particular article, whether the CNB Act or the Credit Institution Act and said in law you proposed it, that and that, we think it shouldn't be like that, but that it should be like that, anyway. It's a constructive debate for me, everything beyond that is unstructured. We are discussing what it says here, and we can only change the amendments to what the government has proposed changes. We cannot modify articles unless the Government has proposed them on the basis of our Rules of Procedure. But you didn't hear any suggestions here today that the article shouldn't read one way or the other. And what can we say about these two laws? Both of them changing? So they change certain relationships, define certain things that the conditions must meet and both the heads of the CNB and the heads of credit institutions. What are their relations, how should anyone react at what time, what is the relationship of the CNB to the European Central Bank? How can credit institutions from the Republic of Croatia establish their branches in EU member states? To a series and financial reporting of both this and that. And we can talk here, the law says both definition and loss and gain. We can talk about that too. You had a chance. Yesterday, the governor of the CNB spoke to you about the subject. You had a chance to ask him a question, but when a man answered the facts, then what came into existence. So, colleagues and colleagues, I'm just going to read some of the things and the provisions that are defined by the Credit Institutions Act, so we're going to ask ourselves all the questions if any of the predecessors mentioned that one point. I will therefore start to define the total income, define the role of the CNB, define the relationship between the CNB and the European Central Bank, define the acquisition of qualifying shares, so I am all talking about the Credit Institutions Act. Conditions for members of the Board shall be defined, the conditions for members of the Supervisory Board shall be defined, both under what conditions and within which time limits the work authorisation and termination of work should be granted. I have already told branches in the EU member state, exchanges of information, definitions and receipts are being defined, and that was what my colleague Lalovac mentioned, we had on the Finance Committee, whether or not to receive, whether income, but the explanation of the Ministry of Finance is that income is more precise than this term, and that this will most likely remain this definition. The exchange of information for needs and credit assessment is just some of the things that are being changed by the Credit Institutions Act, but which are the most important changes and whether the great expert has spoken of these most important changes. I haven't heard a single word about these most important changes, and we can rule out this Credit Institutions Act and change this Credit Institutions Act, we can rule out and change the Government's proposal, only with amendments to articles that change, and it simply needs to be a fact, because of our viewers who don't know our Rules of Procedure, so some kind of free reading when someone writes, talks about everything and everything, and not about the law, then it turns out that way. So what are the most important changes? First, in relation to close cooperation, in order to achieve legal certainty in relation to credit institutions, following the establishment of close cooperation, the activities undertaken by the CNB in joint proceedings with the European Central Bank and in particular in the procedures of granting authorisation to the credit institution, issuing prior consent to acquire or increase a qualifying share in the credit institution, issuing prior consent to perform the functions of members of credit institutions' administrations, assessing the recovery plan, imposing early intervention measures, giving legal sanctions, macroprudential measures aimed at credit users, so the applicable law is complemented by the provisions of macroprudential measures directed at credit users which the CNB can prescribe to preserve the stability of the financial system and avoiding the reduction of systemic risks. So colleagues and colleagues, it's just one small part, read a few more things, and did you hear that an esteemed colleague was talking about it? It's not. And it says that the banking system is in a chaotic state. If this banking system is in a chaotic state, then logically propose measures to control and reroute this chaotic system into something else that you can only do with these provisions that are in the Credit Institutions Act. Therefore, the CNB is prescribed by this legislative proposal that, on the basis of the data provided by credit institutions for regulatory needs, it calculates and publishes the national reference rate of the average cost of financing for the Croatian banking sector, it is reportedly necessary because of the importance of the Croatian banking sector as a reference interest rate serving as a index for determining the variable part of the variable interest rate on consumer credits. The exchange of information on the obligations of clients due to the fact that the Croatian registry has been obliged to suspend the exchange of data for citizens since May 2018 is proposed to supplement the relevant provisions that would allow the exchange of information necessary for the assessment of the creditworthiness of clients and for the purpose of the management of credit risk. Exemptions from the obligation to keep a bank secret shall be subject to the requirement of a general personal data protection regulation in the process of giving consent to certain confidential data being communicated to another natural or legal person and, where confidential information about a client is communicated to a direct other credit institution or to a financial institution or is communicated to a legal person who collects and exchanges creditworthiness data between credit and financial institutions, are necessary for the assessment of the creditworthiness of clients or credit risk management. So colleagues and colleagues, this law has tried to correct anything that may not have worked well in the past. It doesn't say that in the future...... Mr. Chairman, you want that club upstairs calm down, we've all been politely silent as they speak. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So, colleagues and colleagues, if we claim that something is wrong, if we claim that something doesn't work, if we make things better and we want to do better, then it makes sense that whoever claims that something doesn't work and doesn't do something, that it says it needs to change and that it doesn't do something to rip up some of the data by insulting the MPs because look, it's about the High House, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister that he's a runner is something that nobody can just allow himself and the purely elements of home education, that I'm not talking about something else because we all here just have to be careful about how we treat each other out of respect for each other. It's a basic thing to do but insult someone else and not let anyone tell you anything, but it's something that just doesn't drink water. And that happened yesterday. When the governor presented certain facts that were inconclusive, then there was panic. But also yesterday's agenda item and today's agenda point is an opportunity to say what anyone has. But I repeat for the fifth time in this debate, I have not heard a comment on any provision, an article that changes. Also colleagues and colleagues, yesterday there were a lot of stories about the State Audit, so the State Audit can now enter the CNB. The state audit can also control how this future vault will be built and, frankly, speaking afterwards, I wonder which smart man would go into such an investment without a competition, it really should imagine us. Therefore, the definition of what legislation means is to put you in a position to go into an investment of several hundred million at least without an invitation to tender, I think it speaks more of those who say that someone will do this than those who are responsible for social resources. So, no matter what anyone has said, the Croatian banking sector, the Croatian copper sector, has come out of the big economic and financial crisis, no Croatian bank has fallen, the Croatian state today has good macroeconomic indicators, the Croatian state today meets practically master criteria, the share of public debt in GDP, I repeat the share of public debt in GDP is constantly falling, and this is something that should make us all proud. We should be unhappy when things are going bad, all the good things, that we should be proud of, actually they can always be better. Also, all bad things should be commented on but commented with arguments. The HDZ Club supports these two bill proposals to go to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184790	The club of representatives of Croatian sovereigns and independent Zeljko Glasnovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic also requested participation in the debate, Croatian representative Zekanovic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184791	Croatian sovereigns voted against the introduction of the EUR, briefly and clearly, and say on their personal behalf as I was against EU entry, only against EU entry, as has been voted by 1/3 of the population of the Republic of Croatia, 1/3 of the population of the Republic of Croatia in the referendum voted against EU entry and that is what is true and we do not run away from it. However, when we talk about the EUR here to explain a little bit to the citizens what this is about, you and your colleague Schuker started talking to me today, and Minister Maric explained to me that when we were trapped or that, when citizens, how many years ago, we had voted for joining the EU, that in fact, by joining the EU, we had committed ourselves to introducing the EURo and the only country that did not commit to introducing the EUR-o is Denmark, if I am not mistaken according to what the minister said to me today, all the others had committed themselves, and so did the Republic. But there's one small difference, there's one letter that we want to enter into the ERM2 course mechanism, and many haven't sent, many haven't, you know, all the countries I don't want to list, but for example. The Croats are, are Bulgarians, we want to join the European Eurozone. When we send it, now through one expected minister half a year about plus which or minus a month those from the Central European Bank will finely assess whether we have met the criteria and will say okay you are ready to enter the EU, excuse me in the Eurozone or not ready, so maybe by the New Year that writer or answer will come, and they will probably say okay you can introduce the EURo and here's 2. g., here's a little education, then pass 2.g. Through which it is tested, it sees the situation in Croatian finances where all Croatian banks are well controlled, these important Croatian banks, these 6-7 are already in fact, their representatives are already up in the central bank on, on some observations and then about 2.5.g. The Republic of Croatia introduces EUR-by-inch. And now the key question is whether we can still do it at this point, so we can always, if we are a sovereign state, I believe that we are, I believe that this home can decide on, on the fate of its people and of its state, and that this home can say everything about its last, on any issue concerning the Croatian people and the Croatian state, right, I think we could. What can be done? Can the EU contract be re-examined? Is that okay? Well, it can, of course, be, why can't, so it's contracts that change, contracts cancel out, ratify, deratify, sign, mate, come out and go, so I'm up for it. To be clear, I also feel to the Europeans, one, means part of a Christian continent, and the EU as I always stress, don't forget, has been designed by great Christian activists and politicians, Adenauer, Schuman, Alcide De Gasperi, and has imagined Europe as a community of sovereign states, Christian states, today Europe has moved away from this and today becomes one of the superlatives that no one and the one who voted for the EU knew would turn into this. Does the EU have any benefits? There are definitely, some good things have happened, there are also things about European funds, which is not bad and the possibility of traveling without a passport is not bad. Are there any bad things? Now that's what you'll never say, there is, it's my fault that we came to them exclusively as a market because we don't have developed production, so we only buy their products, and there's no customs. I'm sorry that our people are going out on a massive scale, and we're not compensated for that, and I'm sorry that for the whole period since we've been EU members, we've withdrawn a lot less money than we've paid for membership fees, and that's the truth, and that's bad. And then there must be a Cost-Benefit analysis, a cost-effectiveness study, and why in this home, and that's the key, colleague Shuker, why don't we in this home, in a nice way, talk about what the EU brings us, and what the membership has done to us, what took us away, an argumentable debate, plus and minus and you're a financier and then with paper and pencil nice to put this plus financial, this is plus another, this is minus, this is minus, so let's draw the line and let's not forget that someone was 2, 3, 4 years ago. He said there was going to be a Brexit, so people would laugh, and the UK was coming out of the EU, and time would show whether it would be better or worse, time would show. I think that they will, economically and otherwise, prosper, but now it's a mantra of all those Europhiles who don't think critically of the EU, and what they say is European, is different, the EU can, without us, great, so it wouldn't break us like they break the Great Britain, but I will now say the thing that's very important again here, I'm just for discussion and analysis, that we all here together in this home and at a wider level have a critical public debate on the benefits and disadvantages of our stay, our meaning of membership in the EU. Is that a problem? Why would that be a problem? I don't see why that would be a problem. But that's not what we're talking about. As the government did, they sent those writers without consulting us here, so she didn't ask anyone, so let's see some of the experiences of the countries that introduced the euro, which is plus, which is minus. And now, I'm not a financier, but I hear the minister is going to argue and confirm, they're going to jump our retail prices, and we all know that, that's already the thing that's okay. Okay, something will be more orderly with imports-exports, okay, it's a benefit, but means its own currency, its own monetary system is a reflection of sovereignty as is the military, as is the president, as is the President of the Parliament and vice-president of Parliament and Parliament, or Parliament, these are the features of a sovereign state and currency, and this is very important. And at the moment we give up our currency, we're less sovereign. Now someone's gonna say we don't care if we're not sovereign if we live better. That's not true. Now I think all things can't be bought money, I think some things like sovereignty, like belonging to a country, to a people worth more than money can offer. Some people will understand, some people won't understand. And finally, could the United Kingdom leave the EU if it were in the eurozone? The answer is clear, you wouldn't. It couldn't. So that euro is such a cohesive element that it simply disables any further debate on the possible exit from the EU, and I don't want it, I don't want it. I want to talk critically about the EU and that this House, that whenever this people think of it through a referendum or some other institute says, okay, we think that we will be better in that community on our own, one way or another. I don't want anyone to put shackles on us, any shackles in this case of Euro shackles. So not the euro, not the euro shackles, I'm for a critical debate and of course for a sovereign Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184792	The club of representatives of the Independent Youth List also appeared for participation in the debate and on their behalf will speak representative Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184793	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is today our chance to talk again about Croatia's entry into the euro zone, and yesterday we could also touch that topic. We saw actually the governor's arguments on this issue and there was no concrete debate in the public space about the introduction of the euro. When Croatia entered the EU then there was a consensus of all parliamentary political options, we only today see from these exhibitions in the Croatian Parliament in fact how many representatives' clubs are against the current introduction of the euro. So there are different views, some are absolutely against the introduction of the euro, some think the time has simply not come for the introduction of the euro. What concerns me, however, concerns me that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not want to hear parliamentary options which have a critical focus and which consider that this process should still wait because we see what is happening in the EU. So in the EU, certain changes occur, the UK came out a few days ago and it is wise, it is wise to wait for the situation to take place in the economic context and in the context of the monetary union itself. If we are falling into a monetary union and we are not at all interested in any external factors that directly affect the situation in the eurozone, then the question arises whether we are going rationally into a decision or going exclusively through a political agenda that is long ago imagined, which has no alternative and executes the dictation of Brussels, and there is no sovereign policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Other countries do not approach this problem in this way. We know that there are many more EU Member States that have not accepted entry into this RM2 exchange rate mechanism at all, so they are simply waiting, we have there and the Czech Republic, we have Poland, Hungary, Sweden at all, but it should certainly be noted that some EU Member States have not committed themselves at all when accession contracts are in the EU that they have to do so implicitly and accept the euro. So Denmark in this case, and Great Britain also had that possibility means options out, they committed themselves to taking over the euro during pre-accession negotiations. And I am interested in what reason would Croatia not be that positive example of certain sovereign and certain wise policies? For what reason are there always other countries that we must cite as a positive example of certain sovereign policies? That's the question that's being asked. The governor of the National Bank does not want to talk at all about the negativity of entering the euro area, he does not want to say that any possibility of sovereign monetary policy is lost by this act. What does that mean? This means that the possibility is lost that the CNB as a manager in a manner of monetary policy, actively implements monetary policy in the context of improving the economic situation in the state and society. When a EUR-o is accepted such an instrument is lost, such an instrument is lost and that is one big damage. Other negative anomaly, i.e. The other negative phenomenon is also so-called. Asymmetric shocks. What do asymmetric shocks mean? So we have a monetary union and every Member State within that monetary union has its own economy, has its own particular competition and has a certain economic situation at some point. And in some economies, it is necessary to implement an expansional monetary policy, which is the most important thing in economies where the recession is going to mean where this little higher supply of money should be stimulated in order to encourage investment and to be lower interest rates in order to get out of recession, and in some countries where inflation is greater, in some countries where prosperity is greater, there can be moderate and restrictive monetary policy. But if one state has the need to implement an expansional, and another country has a restrictive monetary policy, and the European Central Bank can implement only one uniform monetary policy, then it is a problem because that country that needs another type of monetary policy will be abolished. I would like to quote here examples of certain other EU Member States as the issue of prices after they accepted the EUR. So German Finance Minister Hans Eichel admitted in May 2002 that the introduction of EUR- has led to price hikes and that the burden of transition to a new currency has been transferred to consumers. What Eichel at the time confirmed was the fact that the transition cost consumers more than the authorities expected and that prices rose the most in the food and service sectors. And then here is the data that in Germany the price of vegetables increased by 18.3%, restaurant prices by 3.9%, and some products say TVs or car parking grew even double. This example of Latvia, which moved to EUR 1.1.2014, says that prices started to rise several months before the transition to the euro and before 1 January, and continued to grow several months after. And it says here that traders will not suddenly rise on the day of the EUR because this could result in certain protests and social unrest, but rather the transition is carried out gradually over 6 months or more. So you could have talked for example. With our Slovenian neighbours, what was the situation in Slovenia when the EURo was implemented and how it affected the standard of citizens there, you can talk to the Italians, everyone will share that experience, one negative experience. And we can see today that in these countries there is a negative climate of EUR. So we'd all like to go back to our own currencies. And they're research, they're facts. So you have an official Eurobarometer survey, an EU official report, the Eurobarometer says that in Croatia more than 55% of citizens are currently against the introduction of the EUR. And then the question arises if more than 55% of citizens are against the introduction of the EUR, and the government is not interested at all, the government is not interested in the fact that there is no consensus in the Croatian Parliament, the question is what interests to introduce the EUR so quickly, because we have to force the EURo, and especially when we have not implemented some key structural reforms that we should implement, and especially when we know that our economy is not currently in such a state that it simply absorbs the shock that would arise at the moment when the EURo would be introduced. So prices would certainly rise, so these are exact, empirical data that happened in other countries, only the question is whether our economy can withstand that price growth or not. I personally believe that the Croatian economy cannot stand it and we can see it according to how many young people leave the country, we can see for the great people who are both blocked and what we already know is that we do not always repeat the same thing. As for the situation in Italy, for example in Italy When they accepted the EURo, then the first time to say the prices, let's say the same then they had pounds with the EURo, and then people were able to compare then they would see the prices didn't grow. However, when they removed, when they removed the lira, automatically after that, traders suddenly raised prices. It means something that would cost, for example. 500 liras, now there would be 50 cents and people perceptive, psychologically they wouldn't simply understand that it was an increase, but the increase would be significant. So they grew up the same way, for example. for the double grew some basic foods such as bread, milk, etc. What should also be said is that there is a euro group or euro group when entering the euro area and that euro group is an informal group consisting of the finance ministers of the euro area member states. However, this euro group is not institutionalised to say so, so she does not have any rules of procedure at all, she is still at the level of the informal group, these meetings are held once a month and I have read a report where Varoufakis former Greek finance minister talked about his own experience when he participated in these meetings, she even said that he had even taken away his right of speech and that he was not allowed to speak at these meetings at all for a while and he actually asked which one of the rules of procedure this set out that he could not speak, but they had no rules of procedure because the group itself was not formalised. Why should we also wait with the introduction of the EUR? There is a tendency that some major Member States want, for example, Introduce this unique finance minister, and then want to go, some want to go into deeper integration, some want less integration, so we should wait at least another 10 years to see how this situation is going to take place in the euro area and then make a decision. And that's exactly what the Prime Minister of Poland said, he said positive things. He says we keep our fingers crossed for the euro zone to survive, to overcome its inevitable problems, so how the coordination doesn't go the way the authors imagined, we want the euro zone to be strong and then in a few years we'll see how it works. So here's one more responsible policy than ours, one wiser policy than ours and what needs to know, you should know that in the ERM II course mechanism, Mr Shucker said that we meet all convergence criteria, but he didn't then say that we don't meet the convergence criterion 60%, 60% of the public debt compared to GDP. So you didn't say that, you said it was shrinking and it's okay, it's true, it's getting smaller, but we're not meeting that convergence Maastrichti criterion, we're not meeting it yet. So you forgot to mention this and should say that certain Member States i.e. The countries which have joined this ERM II course mechanism should at least be in the course mechanism for 2 years, but some countries such as Latvia and Lithuania were as many as 10 years in the ERM II course mechanism because they did not meet those criteria well enough. My message to the government of the Republic of Croatia is that it is not forced to introduce the EUR without asking Croatian citizens and Croatian people and without achieving a broad political consensus in this assembly, as was the case with Croatia's entry into the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184794	HNS representatives' club also reported for participation in the debate. On their behalf will be the representative of the goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184795	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues, it is undeniable that a referendum has been held in the Republic of Croatia at which citizens have agreed to join the EU. On this basis, a contract for the accession of the Republic of Croatia was concluded and thus the Republic of Croatia was obliged to introduce the EUR-o as an official currency when the conditions for that purpose were met. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the CNB developed a strategy for introducing the EUR as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia. In July 2019, the Republic of Croatia sent a letter of intention to join the European Course Mechanism with Member States, all euro area and EU institutions, as well as a plan of action to be carried out by May 2020. I must point out that there is no specific date when we enter and the EUR is our official currency. In the most ideal conditions, it could only happen in 1.1.2023, but again, we are deciding when it will be. I think that 55% as far as the colleagues say, according to data against Croatia's entry into the euro zone, in fact, little what all propaganda is doing against the euro and Croatia's entry into the euro area. People are really scared of everything and everything. We heard here today that we are paying more in, for EU membership funds than we have withdrawn. So does one of us sitting here really not be able to verify that information but has to speak here disinformation from day to day? So we're being listened to by the citizens, and yet we expect to provide accurate information. At least that's what it's supposed to be like to be trusted after that, to stand by our spoken words. But there we hear everything and everything. We are continuing to fight this EUR, and we are aware of how euro-based we are and that in fact our savings are in the euro, our loans are in the euro, when we buy something bigger we express ourselves again in the euro, and when we talk about our economies I come from the part where export is really a significant branch. After Croatia's entry into the EU, these exports have grown significantly and ask me, one of them says he's far worse off now than he's done before. Normally, it deals prices in EUR, the invoice is in EUR, after it is paid in EUR, it must be sold, converted into kunas, paid to the bank, paid in kunas, therefore it must serve all its obligations in kunas, and received in EUR. In that part, there are already significant, significant costs. We're talking about the course, we're talking about a significant increase in retail prices, I just don't see any reason for that to happen because it's known that the course will be determined, that it's based on the average that's being determined, negotiated, determined. He can't be a loser, he can't be a winner. Prices can be determined how long they will be expressed in kunas, as much as the EUR's to be parallel and can be monitored. I really don't know what reason it would have to be to double the price just because it would now be expressed in euro. I mean, it really doesn't stand, and we from this pay phone keep scaring our people with stuff like that. We didn't specifically talk about what's now being changed by this law, which is regulated because actually most of these discussions come down to these two things. That's not good, someone else is going to decide and we're against the EUR. I agree with that part and all those colleagues who said that we should discuss it, that we should make arguments and certainly have our citizens familiar with all the good and potential risks that it carries, but not in this way. I don't want to talk about this work anymore, but I'm just going to look back on this law that we have proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, and I'm just going to point out the part that I think is good, it seems to me that my colleague Shucker has singled it out, that the obligation of the CNB to take over the calculation and publication of the NRS from the Croatian Banks Association is prescribed on the basis of the data provided by both credit institutions for regulatory purposes. And that the Croatian Banking Association calculates and publishes the CNS using data published by the CNB on the financing costs of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia and that the CNB calculates NRS starting with the NRS for the first quarter of 2020 and for the first time publishes on its website in May 2020 according to the established calendar. And here, just for last, once again please colleagues and colleagues, talk certainly yes, information yes, but please from this pay phone and from the bench and please really as colleagues let us give citizens real information, not disinformation. The HNS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184796	The club of representatives of HSU, SNAGE, independent representatives and New Politics also requested participation in the debate. In their name will be spoken by MP Alexic and representative Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184797	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will also have a number of proposals on the Law on Credit Institutions and on the CNB Act on Amendments and Supplements. Since it is the first reading, that it is not about amendments, these proposals may go beyond the scope of those articles mentioned in the amendments, and I will, accordingly, propose concrete changes which concern, first of all, the factoring agencies which I call the vulture agencies, which are not sufficiently supervised in the Republic of Croatia and on the other hand, the judgments in the case of Franak, where I will seek to write down certain obligations to the CNB, but also to the banks to act in accordance with that ruling in which it is possible to intervene with them by law to comply with that judgment. As for the very entry into the euro area that has been spoken of a lot today and why these laws are passed among other things, I am the signator of the declaration against entry into the euro area before a broad public debate is held. Just a colleague Makar said that people should not be afraid of the euro zone, I agree, but that is why a broad public debate should be conducted and in this broad public debate all explained in a simple language, which will mean for them, which will mean for the debtors with EUR credits, which will mean for the debtors with kuna loans, which will mean in terms of prices etc., etc., which will mean for Governor Vujčić, who goes to pay, I don't know if 20,000 euros, is mentioned such a figure, is that he deserved as governor, well that's less important, but here I think he didn't deserve because the CNB didn't do his job until today. So the main proposals I will have in these amendments to the law concern that I will seek to take control of the vulture agencies in the part where these agencies take over debts from the Croatian banks, because if the vulture agency assumes debt from the CNB regarding credit or something like that, then it is time for the CNB to continue to oversee that agency as it oversees the bank. The second thing I will try to do is respect the rightful word of the collective verdict, and in that right, it says that banks are not allowed in the future after a powerful verdict, to apply unfair interest rates and the currency clause of CHF. They continue to apply it in one part of the loan, in that part of the loan that has not been converted and in that part of the euro of kuna loans where no interest rate is agreed in the correct way. This can be stopped, it can be prevented, it is not a problem at all, so I will have such a proposal, that in this direction the institutions of the Republic of Croatia such as the CNB but also the credit institutions themselves sound proudly, the institutions imagine, however, they are not institutions, they are mostly legal persons, companies dealing with money trade. None of these are institutions, it's such a big concept, a bank so an institution, imagine, it's an institution. Well, for me, the bank is not an institution. For me, the bank is a company that trades money and makes huge money. I must again point out that Croatian banks in the Republic of Croatia earn 100% to 200% more on interest than in one Germany, in one Sweden, in one Denmark, etc. Because interest rates are at very low levels, about 0% for saving citizens, all loans, 99% of consumer loans in the Republic of Croatia are placed from deposits of Croatian citizens whose price is 0% and the banks earn interest rates from 3% to 10%. While in Germany, Denmark, etc., they charge interest rates from 1% to about 4.5%. This means that banks here earn 100% to 200% more on invested capital than in Germany, rather than in Denmark and similar countries, which means that the Republic of Croatia is Eldorado for the business of Croatian banks. I have replicated Minister Maric, unfortunately he is not here right now, so I have replicated him precisely in a way that it is sad that, as someone who regulates and controls the capital market, the monetary system, etc., I have not ordered the banks to stop acting illegally on what Minister Maric has started talking to me about financial literacy. Financial literacy, what financial literacy, this is a legal issue. Financial literacy is just mentioned by a gentleman from the Croatian Banking Association, constantly saying that we were not financially written when we were raising loans. It's not about ladies and gentlemen, financial literacy. It's about contracts that are legally invalid contracts. It is the contracts in which the essential components are harmful, it is the credit agreements in which the price and interest rates and the subject matter of the loan, which is the CHF currency clause, it is not about the legal failure of banks, it is not about the financial literacy of those who have raised the loans. The financial literacy of each individual means that he knows how to manage his finances, nothing more than that. Financial literacy does not mean that it must know legal regulation when raising consumer credit. That legal regulation must be known by the trader and that is the bank. As a trader, the bank failed to agree on an interest rate in the correct manner and agreeing the interest rate in the correct manner of the variable interest rate means that the parameters for the change in interest rate are agreed. The banks did not contract in either CHF loans or in euro loans or in kuna loans an interest rate that changes in a proper manner until the end of 10 January 2013. On 10 January 2013, amendments to the Consumer Credit Act were entered into force where it is precisely declared that the interest rate to be changed must consist of a fixed act and of a variable act that is market-based and not conditional on banking decisions. And then the banks claimed they'd done it by law before because it wasn't prescribed before. That's not true, it's been prescribed before, but much wider. The Mandatory Relations Act was prescribed at that time and it is now prescribed that the contractual act must be negotiated in a way that is or should be negotiated in a manner that is fixed interest rate and, when it is a matter of interest rate, the contractual act is only a fixed interest rate or must be determined and an interest rate is determined if the interest rate which consists of the market-based parameters which are not conditioned by banks as agreed by the banks and the CNB is precisely which has allowed its failures to negotiate an interest rate which is indeterminate, namely the CNB which, until it reached a fair verdict by 2014, kept on its website information that the interest rate that is changed by the decision of the Bank, is so to be agreed. That's exactly what it said on the consumer protection pages. And all the time until there was a final verdict, I was told by the CNB that it was okay, as it was normal, as it was allowed, that it was normal for the bank to change the interest rate by its decision. Unfortunately, CNB, I have to argue that the CNB did not do its job, that it kept information that was lying on its site and that it thus held the lottery to the Croatian banks, which thanks to the fact that the CNB held the lottery, the robbery, the sequestered, whatever you want to call it, Croatian citizens and robbed them of 20 billion kuna in CHF loans and another 5 billion kuna in euro and kuna loans. In CHF loans, they were tampered with for overpaid interest rates and overpaid exchange rates, and in euro and kuna loans, they were robbed of that interest growth that was not allowed. Fortunately for Croatian citizens, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has decided that there are no outdated claims so that the euro and kuna debtors will be able to sue for their overpaid interest and will be able to obtain their full sums, however what I want to propose through these laws is that the illegal business of banks still exists. During 2013, banks, by virtue of the Consumer Credit Act, set a fixed part of the interest rate and a variable part of the interest rate, and then made one of their own arbitrary decisions, sent it to consumers and told them from that date on that fixed part of the interest rate and the variable part of the interest rate, and from that day on, it is in your credit. However, what the banks have failed to do is to make that and contracts with consumers. Namely, the change in interest rate by decision of the bank where it is, for example, the contracts are 4% interest rates, so it changed the 5, 6, 5, 4.5, 4.5 as it likes it, the same thing as when the bank voluntarily fixed part and the variable part of the interest rate, which does not agree with the consumer, and during 2013 banks in existing loans that I know were 300, 400 000 consumer loans which were not in force and in which the parameters were not agreed, the banks voluntarily established these parameters, by lettering to consumers how that is the case and claiming that it was all legal. And after that, ladies and gentlemen, and after that from the CNB, they say it's okay, how it's legal, how the banks did it by law. And fortunately for me and fortunately for all those people who've made such loans, we have judicial authority. And the court ruled in 2018 by revising 1172/18 that such a way of forming an interest rate where the bank will determine the parameter and the fixed part of the interest rate, is not a legal way of determining the interest rate because banks complain in court procedures that lose, banks lose procedures, maybe less than 1% get court proceedings but it will also change in favour of consumers but 99% of banks lose procedures and in these procedures they must return all overpaid interest and associated tight interest, recently and course because the course has recently been decided by the same power, those who lose those disputes and those in those disputes claim that they are obliged to return actually overpaid interest until 2013 because they allegedly acted according to the law, they defined the parameters, and now it's okay; however, the Supreme Court and those in their audits are also required to pay the money, because it's not enough to pay off the money, because it's not enough to pay the money. In a bilateral agreement, one party cannot define and the other party cannot have any influence on that. So how many such loans there are now that banks have voluntarily defined the parameters and have not agreed with consumers, I cannot know that. That's what the CNB should know, she's the regulator. The CNB should send an inquiry to the banks, how many loans you have that you haven't agreed on. How many loans you have in which you have freely defined and sent a letter to consumers. The CNB should also impose on Croatian banks that, in all loans where they have not agreed on a fixed part and a variable part of the interest rate, they have voluntarily determined and informed consumers, in all such loans, the CNB should require Croatian banks to stop using such parameters and to return the interest rate at the beginning of the interest rate if the initial interest rate amount is less than that applicable at the moment. If the amount of the interest rate is less than the initial amount, then no change in interest rate is required because the variable interest rate is not harmful and the bank is allowed to reduce the interest rate to the lower but must not increase it to more, this is thus found to be the case. Therefore, banks must not increase the interest rate they did not agree on in a proper manner above the initial interest rate size. Here's the thing I want the CNB to define by law that she has to impose it on banks because as Judge Cess has already said several times, we're court, we determine what's wrong but we don't have a sword or a bag. We don't have the sword to stop it, and we don't have a bag to pay people back, but it has to stop someone else and the money has to bring back the banks. And that's where I agree with Judge Sess. There is now an executive and legislative authority that can regulate these things with its own legal changes, so among other things, I will try to regulate what it does to banks in the CNB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184798	Representative Miro Bulj has applied for individual participation in the debate, which he does not have and loses his right to speak. Sasa, representative of Sasa Djujic, also reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184799	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I want to take a short look at the debate we had yesterday, and I think it's one of the main topics today, and that's again these changes that are going on, so aside from adapting plus the business of the CNB and according to these, according to European directives, these changes that we are doing are also preparations for the introduction of the euro as currency in Croatia, and I want to take a look at this issue yesterday. So I think it's a good topic to discuss, that we need to discuss, that we need to face arguments, that we need to open up some facts and that we need to start in Croatia more and more to open up this topic to just solve the ambiguities of our citizens, and as we have already been said this morning, maybe we should open up these negative effects first and resolve these dilemmas and then maybe start to those benefits that we would have. So, once again, I want to say that today is not at all a question in Croatia whether we are going to introduce the EURo or not, that is what we are committed to by joining the EU. Also, when the citizens supported a referendum on Croatia's EU accession, they could be said to have supported all the legal consequences that we signed at the time, and so is the introduction of the EUR. And what we need to talk about is when the best time for Croatia is and as painless as it is to spend there, it is more painless to spend that transition. Because in this experience, other countries have shown that, as a rule, every country when it introduced EURo after that felt a certain crisis financially and has fallen into certain difficulties and we have to watch how we try to avoid what I think will be difficult, but how the most painless part solves it. For example, the CNB will play one big role and a lot of their work and activities will depend on how this whole transition process goes. What we need to see is when for Croatia the best time to move in that direction is. I'll repeat again why I said yesterday so my colleagues objected that I would introduce it tomorrow would not, but why is it important to find as soon as possible a course by which the conversion will be calculated, for example. the course is then started to be used in public. For example. These measures are designed to begin to show prices in trade both in kuna and in this course, which will be to prevent price increases in the future when it enters into force. These are all the mechanisms that are then used to make it all easier together. Anyway, I think it's time we talked about it, and I don't think it's a question at all, and that part of this is going to be even more about how it's coming to the public, and whether it's going to be 3 years from yesterday that the governor is saying that we're already ready for 2023, or if it's going to be 5 or 10 years from now we need to talk about it and see. But this problem should be approached responsibly and everyone should try to make their contribution to the open and reasoned discussion and to make the best possible decisions. Mostly these amendments to the law I support and I have no objections. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184800	Representative Gordan Maras answered his word, since he has no right to lose. Representative Ivan Lovrinovic also applied for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, we are discussing proposals for amendments to the CNB Act and amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions, reminding you that I was ahead of the party to change Croatia about 1.5 days ago and proposed amendments to the CNB Law, but these are the warm two parties that ruled the Croatian Refused, and I am sorry for that, even more surprised that the SDP representative voted directly against it, but today I am glad to hear that they are not for the quick introduction of the EUR, and that there is now a new president of Milanovic, who has surprised me to see the good examples of Poland, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Sweden, so countries that know how to use their monetary policy, their central bank, their currency, and I like what he said, and now here is the new president of the state of Milanović, who surprised me with his position when he said I hear about the kuna, what it is. He just shut up a little bit when he was elected, I guess he's waiting while it means official appearances, and it would be good for him as a new president to really repeat what he was saying because in this country he needs voices of reason, and this topic should first of all be talked about by the academic community and people who have something to say about it, not that apprentices tell the masters how the house is made because. Now, I'm sorry, and when I came to this assembly we could implement one law on the CNB, then I was in the MOST and there was enough time for 6-8 months, but it could have been but the MOST had played a historic chance, it was whatever it was, we know what was after what was happening and I'm personally sorry, I'm here really like all Croatian citizens took great hopes, but here we are fighting and moving on. I would here today, when it comes to amendments to the CNB Act, repeat that when it comes to amendments to the CNB Act, two things here are important that I stress. They do not care about the EUR-o they will introduce these political structures dollar, Japanese yen, whatever they want only to be in power, to exploit the resources of Croatia, they did not experience Croatia as a country, but property, private state, and now which currency will be, so it does not matter to them. What a kuna, to them it's like to last year's snow you understand. So these are the people who only still show patriotism by laying their left or right hands on the heart, so in some ritual situations where anthem plays, etc., etc. So, they now want to introduce even greater protection of CNB management, which has made 3.5 billion kuna losses in the past two years, it is an astronomical loss, which they have charged Croatia, increased the external debt by EUR 3 billion and now wants to protect them, their inability not to record new losses by introducing new accounting standards where these negative exchange rates will not be recorded as losses, please imagine that. And banks and businesses will have to book further negative exchange rates as their losses. And so, as we have a problem here, you see, the survival of the EU, the euro area is at stake because it is spreading too quickly in countries that are not ready and the other reason the EU is not my people's country. The EUR-o is the money of the non-existent state. The EUR is required to unite the EU or to create a country, I will no longer lecture you on the video contribution I recorded, means a clean academic debate six months ago on Youtube, so I am not wasting time on it, so who is interested can come up with arguments, historical developments, etc., etc. However, see now and another reason why these amendments to the CNB Act are being forced is to build a vault, a vault business where cash will be deposited, transported, transported, and you see they demand that this vault to be built, for which land to be sought, costing 100 million kunas be declared a strategic project important for defence and national security, and that of the Public Procurement Act will then demand that not to carry out the procurement process but to go to a direct contract. Now, you see, these are two key reasons why the law is forced, what EUR-o, what three. Now, we saw yesterday that the governor here was very nervous because they started to file criminal charges against him, against the leadership of the CNB, and the time would come for these things to be settled. He insulted yesterday's representatives that the ignorant, not understanding what it was about, had been raped by financial oligarchy in Croatia, not only by us but also in Europe and the world, and therefore the world has problems because the banks have been raped on our money, be careful. When the citizens are conscious in their heads that the banks have no money but to manage our money and build power and use power against us, then citizens will start resisting citizens, then the citizens will choose new people who will bring, know how to bring both the banking system and the CNB under democratic supervision, which would say that they support the development of the economy and the well-being of citizens, not that the interest rate and interest rates of the economy and that people must flee from their country because of the huge debts and contaminated toxic and financial products. What the governor has to answer to is what is being asked by N1 television why he's even met three times with representatives of the Knighthead Fund, it's a vulture fund from the United States, which is now an important co-owner of Forten's group. At first, he said he'd found himself once, then a check of two, and then eventually he turned out to be 3, and even outside the central bank. None of the central governors, some central banks do not meet with such individuals from investment funds especially outside the official institution. There are too many respected colleagues and fellow MPs here, respected citizens of open issues. We at the CNB don't know how things are. There, out of 100 functions that are the most responsible of executive directors, department heads, no public competitions in newspapers, portals, no internal public procurements, but by explicitly posting, there is nowhere else in the army. So we have an institution that's in the state by all means, it doesn't answer to anyone. Here when representatives come to insult, humiliate MPs, even here from humiliation to come. Why? Because the people who are sitting here and who are very supportive, they have made it possible for them, and we may find out about everything else in future time. What I would particularly point out, again I warn from this pay phone, stop the growth of cash non-intentional loans they are the new possible Franak case and that is even bigger. Franak was about the amount of about 39 billion kuna this amount has already reached 52 billion kuna and by summer it will exceed the amount of residential loans in Croatia. Directly the CNB is doing this, so she's like giving a recommendation to the banks, and that's actually a signal you're doing whatever you want. That way you know with which interest rates people give loans in half an hour, that's where they get them, they don't know what to do, they have to pay old debts. These loans are fast or half an hour, costing between 7 and 8%, and at the same time deposited for a year with these banks pays them 0.1 to 0.2% this is a huge space so Croatia is a country of interest. In that sense, there will be big problems here when recessions occur, job losses, unfortunately they will, there will be payout problems, banks will have huge losses, and then they will ask that we taxpayers pay their losses through bigger taxes and everything else. Let it be known on behalf of the party, in front of the party We change Croatia I ask that, simply we will be against this law and invite citizens to finally rise up, let us not wait for dear citizens and watch more what happens and those half hours when the elections come to change Croatia together because this is unsustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184802	Representative Sasa Djujic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184803	Just for a little while, not this one, I'm not going to go into the polemics at all, but yesterday you mentioned on several occasions the new President Zoran Milanovic and today you mentioned him. He did not say that it was against the EUR, he said that the EUR-o why not, but that it should be discussed, exactly what we are talking about in the SDP. So, that one, look at the video on his profile where he talked about it. So that we can talk about it, and we need to talk about it, and that this decision must not be taken over the knee, by a decision from a college in a ministry, but by a community of people who care about their destiny for the next, future for their next 20 to 30 years. That's what he said. So he didn't rule out that possibility, but he's just saying that in the SDP, we keep talking about it, open up all the dilemmas, and that people who decide their fate in Croatia, rather than the narrow part of a cabinet, have to decide that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184804	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184805	Well, dear colleague, as you can see, this very narrow part of the decision is decided, you understand, by the people here, and I mention again the current minister, former Vice President Dalic and Governor Vujcic, signed everything, 7 pre-accession contracts, all related to the economy. These same people, so you see how many years they've been running the whole game and they want to get us into it. And as for the introduction of the euro, of course we're looking for a debate but you heard what the governor said yesterday, come to us at the National Bank, we'll explain to you there, what you're going to see here in the Parliament, we're in charge, so that's a message. And perhaps the best explanation is that when Croatia has an 80% average German salary and 80% German worker productivity, I will be the first to sign the request to introduce the euro tomorrow and what I have said now every man understands. Otherwise we'll be Greece, the California Hotel you can get into, but you can't go out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184806	Thank you. The representative has applied for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184807	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I said I'd propose certain changes, now I'd say something about a piece that I didn't speak for the club, I was talking about an amendment regarding the CNB, which should require banks to behave in accordance with a collective verdict. Another change I'm going to propose concerns vulture agencies and debt sales, cessiums, where banks sell debts at a discount price and then the buyer makes a difference. The buyer buys the debt for 20, 30% of the value of the debt and earns the difference, collects tight interest, has often some mortgage property related to the debt, so today I talked about one such case, EOS Matrix, the structure of EOS Matrix ownership, how this EOS Matrix and other vulture agencies are not properly monitored. They do what they want here. They buy for small money, make a lot of money, make money for other people's troubles. So I said that OTTO is a group in Germany of own EIOS groups which is also in Germany, EOS group is the owner of EOS Matrix, and EOS Matrix is the owner of EOS real estate. And the owner of this OTTO group is Michael Otto, a German rich man, so that we actually have a kind of financial occupation in the Republic of Croatia where huge money is earned on Croatian citizens and the Republic of Croatia has absolutely no use for it. Only foreigners benefit from that. Instead of weapons, tools are used and tools are financial. So I mentioned this one example that is important for this change that will be proposed, that such things be prevented in the future for better supervision, for better regulation, I was talking about the situation where RBA bank sold 3 million kuna debt and 290 000 tight interest rates to EOS Matrix, and it was mortgage property worth an estimate of 13 million kuna. The estimate is 13 million kuna. This 3 million kuna debt, it is not long 3 million kuna, because it is a CHF loan, when overpaid interest, overpaid exchange rate, that debt may be a million kuna, is no longer but sold for 3 million kunas because the consumer, who is the executioner, has not yet completed the court dispute against the bank that has been launched. And what did EOS Matrix do after taking over the debt? Right after a while, after a month, two, three, I don't know how much, he sold the property at a mortgage, so he ran that property and sold that property under a mortgage because he had EOS real estate. EOS Matrix sold a property worth 13 million kuna to himself for 7.5 million to his daughter EOS real estate. And now it's basically his real estate. Although legally speaking, it may not be, but it's because it's his daughter. So what do we have now? We have 7.5 million kuna, we have 3 million debt and another 2 million and 900,000 tight interest. Suddenly, there is a tight interest in the debt that is 900% higher than the one that was at the time of the conversion of CHF credit because the loan has been converted. At that time, there were 290,000 tight interest rates and today there are 2 million and 900,000 tight interest rates. And it's a total debt of about 6 million kuna. And 7.5 million kuna is on the bill, so 6 million kuna will belong to EOS Matrix and a million and a half kuna will be given to the perpetrator because it is the surplus one above the debt. But in addition, it remains worth more than 7.5 million kuna on its own since it is worth 13.5 million kuna. This means that EOS will one day sell that property because it's worth real estate in Samobor, so if he sells it for $11 million, he'll make another what, another 3.5 million won't make more money on that loan, from 7.5 to 11 is 3.5, right? So I'm sure he'll make another 3.5 million on it. On a debt of 3 million kuna, which is actually a million kuna, on a tight interest that shouldn't actually be because they're charged on a debt that doesn't exist, EOS Matrix has turned, how much, let's say, he paid it, for example, that debt may have paid a million and a half if it's a 50% discount, he paid a million and a half, he'll get a total of 11 million kuna, of which 6 million kuna has been paid through that debt that has been paid by the performer and still has an additional 5 million kuna earnings. So he made a total of 2 million, up to 11 is 9, he earned about 400% on this purchased debt, imagine you earn 400% on someone's debt within 2 years, and that's only because the market is unregulated because it allows vulture agencies to make vultures here, to make huge money on citizens' debts, and not actually respect Croatian laws, because the debt that comes from a bank that had a bank over it, which is subject to consumer credit law, the Law on Credit Institutions, the Law on Banks, the Act on the CNB, therefore such an institution sells its debt to one agency that is ad hoc formed here on the basis of the capital of a German richer, it completely comes out of the supervision of the CNB and does what it wants and earns 400% on only one such debt of a few million kuna and how much of such debt there is smaller and greater and what benefit from the Croatians. So, I'm going to propose amendments to the law to oversee agencies if it comes to the transfer of bank debt to the agency by the CNB. Only CNB has such tools to monitor the work of such individuals. And the other thing, I'm going to suggest, I've already suggested this before, but it didn't go away, that the bank must at the same discount price offer debt to the bank, and now you're going to tell the Government of the Republic of Croatia again how it becomes, what you call it, what kind of business it is, I can't remember, you'll know, you'll answer me again in the same way that it is then in some way gambling with debt, so someone's going to think they'll be able to pay off their debt, so they'll deliberately arrange big money to buy it for a little bit later. No, it doesn't work that way, it can't be, it has to be offered to the debtor at that discount price his debt if he can buy it, pay it, pay it let him buy his debt, get into trouble which is why he got into trouble, let him solve his problem, why would we give some vulture agency to make a huge debt money. And which bank was a popular, Raiffeisen Bank in this case I was talking about. A famous and popular Raiffeisen bank that wants to press the courts. Interesting, isn't it? In the final speech on behalf of the club I will speak globally about everything I wish to propose in the context of amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions and the Law on the CNB and until then thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184808	Agent Pernar has volunteered for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184809	Dear ladies and gentlemen, today there is high treason in the Croatian Parliament because our state is handing over the process of creating money into the hands of foreign entities or the European Central Bank. I'll give you some examples, Art. 87th and the new CNB Act says that the CNB is acting in accordance with the European Central Bank's instructions. So not with the instructions of the Croatian state, not with some of their own instructions, but with directives from Brussels. We have a further situation, Art. 77th said according to EU regulations, the CNB issues and abolishs the authorisation for the work of credit institutions, conducts supervisory and supervision of the business of credit institutions, performs other tasks under its jurisdiction and lays down sublegal regulations governing banking operations and lays down standards for stable and secure business of credit institutions. And in this case, they are not relevant Croatian regulations, but EU regulations. It's also important, Art. The 118th is changed and the euro is being introduced as the official monetary units of the Republic of Croatia, the following provisions of this law shall cease to apply, and the following provisions shall be listed here. Paragraphs 1 to 4 shall be replaced by the following: In the 38th and 39th, the article so as not to list further, mostly the malts not 1/3 of the CNB Act simply disappears. And the logic of the thing that arises is when we face this betrayal of equal to that when in 1914 the government over the creation of the American dollar is committed to the religious federal reserves and in fact to the private structures currently owned by them, the Rothschild family, we have the same situation today only because we don't teach power monetaryally or over money to a private person from Croatia but rather hand it over to a foreign institution that actually rules over our money-making process from now on. Putting your country in a dependent position on other entities, foreign ones, is essentially the essence of high treason and you are probably wondering what the Croatian people will do about it. Well, by my judgment, I suppose they'll vote again for, the vast majority of peoples for HDZ and SDP, and they'll actually support high treason in the elections, but according to this, we shouldn't be surprised by the fate of that and such a people who vote against themselves and would like to point out shockingly, which is that in 1950, 95,000 children were born in Croatia, 1950, in a period of Black Communism, today in a time of so-called time. The EU of Democracy, which HDZ and SDP are putting to us, has been born only 36,000 children in the last 100 years, and so few children have been born in these areas. So if you just take that information into account, you'll realize that in, say, 70 years, it's going to be 2.5 times less people means those generations than there are now, than there are now. Which in translation means that the number of inhabitants of our country will rapidly decline, it is clear that puppet rule does nothing to stop it. Instead, the puppet government offers as a solution a simple sharing of dwellings with migrants from 3 countries in the world while at the same time our own citizens live in ruins, pay expensive subsistence, cannot resolve their own housing issue but therefore certain people from the HDZ, we have the case now head of some municipality, get privileged loans that actually the state pays loans to them or we have the case of the head of the APN which is actually from the same institution where he bought the apartment again at a preferential price, twice the market price. And what's actually happening in Croatia is that there's a division of society where HDZ actually happens, and I guess SDP would do the same thing if it were in power because they were doing the same thing when they were in power. We've seen how society has also been intertwined with their own earrings. They spoke when they came to power with Racan a good life for everyone, not just them, it was one of the parolees, eventually the SDPs lived well, but ordinary people didn't, and then the SDP lost the election. Then Milanovic again promised people a better life. Same thing. People lived worse and worse, so SDP also lost to Milanovic's parliamentary elections. However, our people have a memory of those fish, 8 seconds, quickly they forget what Milanovic was about why they had to let him out of the place where he was, etc. And what I'm saying is, this cyclical change in HDZ and SDP in power will ultimately lead to a further breakdown of our society, a further stagnation or decline of the rapid population. And now to make you laugh, I talked to Governor Vujčić yesterday and he tells me, I tell him, Governor, so do you see how the number of newborn babies from year to year has fallen apart, so this is not a sustainable system. He tells me, Ivan, there's one bright thing about this whole story. I ask him which one? He says, the BPD per capital is growing because the capital's getting smaller, the money's getting smaller, the people are getting smaller. And what will eventually happen is that it will remain on one side of the arrest, and on the other hand these other people will simply be or will not have the conditions to start a family or flee the country as every year Croatia actually loses the city the size of Pula. I don't know if you at all are HDZ and SDP people aware of this, are you aware that Croatia's collapse happened succesively when both HDZ and SDP were in power. And more importantly, the SDP promised to deal with HDZ crime, and none of that reckoning happened, it wasn't a revision of conversion and privatisation. And he would dare just say "continuity policy." You remember who gave most of the banking system into the hands of strangers. That's not what HDZ did. That's what the government of the Racans did. Both the HDZ and SDP governments are now together in favour of the introduction of the EUR and, in fact, after the banking system is committed to the hands of foreigners, now the financial system in terms of the process of money creation, or monetary power, is now being put into the hands of foreigners. In doing so, the people are convinced that it is in his interest. Many people, of course, believe that lie and that delusion that people think or do or think something they don't, but someone else suggested that they accept it or someone else's will as their own, one of the most dangerous delusions. And finally, what will certainly happen with the introduction of the EUR is the rise in prices, it happened in all the countries where the EUR was introduced very quickly. So Italy, Germany, Austria, Slovenia and, in fact, the consequences of that need also a drop in purchasing power. But again, the question arises as to what kind of brain it is in the heads of our own born that it will continue to support HDZ and SDP, not the person who speaks against this globalist organization or against the globalists who, as I have said in my day, feel at home everywhere and nowhere. These are people who are not bound to their home, to their people, to their country. They look only at themselves, and unfortunately in this process of viewing themselves are willing to sacrifice all the other people around them. I don't know what the future of the Croatian people is, but I do not see any chance of, I say, joy, of seeing some vision of a happier future with them at the head. I can only hope that the new generations to come will condemn you who ruined them in the election. And I hope once again, as it is said, I pray to God that my people open their eyes and see how they go with this policy they support. The scariest thing was when I saw in the second round of elections, millions of HDZ people, millions of SDP people, the one for Colinda and Milanovic. I simply couldn't believe that there were so many people who were manipulated by the media and that they were involved in this apparent struggle between the two parties, and basically it was real power somewhere outside our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184810	Representative Djujic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184811	My colleague Pernar, since you were both a member of the SDP and a member of the HDZ, I'm interested in what periods were you in? Were you in the SDP while we were in power, the same thing with HDZ or were you in reverse? And since it took you a while to spend that cyclical enlightenment from the SDP, then the HDZ, so Live Wall, so now you have your own party, don't be mad at the citizens that they also need a certain period. Maybe one day, by your conviction, they'll see it through. I mean, get away from yourself. It took you guys so long to get through all these options.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184812	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184813	Dear fellow Djujic, I have never been a member of the SDP, I have never joined a youth forum, if you have me on membership records, show it publicly, and I am sure you will be able to find it easily. However, I must tell you why I joined the HDZ, that is an important detail, which is the situation where the SDP headed right along with you and Racan brought the country into a terrible state, all the promises that you have made none of them have been made, it has been more difficult for people to live, and not easier, the same as during Milanovic's mandate, and I thought, under the influence of media manipulation, that Ivo Sanader is some positive, that the EU is a good thing, etc. However, I soon realized that these European friends of Eva Sanader, as he himself, are working against our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184814	I'd give you a minute more if I could. Representative Goran Aleksic will deliver the closing statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184815	Thank you, dear Vice President. I will briefly sum up what I will suggest between the two readings and why I will propose it in amendments to the CNB Act and the Law in credit institutions. First of all, I have to say the laws are passed because of the entry into the euro area. I am against entering the euro zone before a broad public debate is held on this. People need to know all about it. I am the signator of one such declaration and therefore until all this is resolved together I am against entering the euro area. That's one thing. The second thing, the CNB did not regulate on the basis of a collective court ruling on the business of banks which remains unfair in one part, where they still use in one part unfair interest rates that changed their decisions, which they subsequently voluntarily defined again and did not agree with their clients. They continue to apply in a part of the credit that is not conventional to the unfair currency clause CHF, although the ruling states that they cannot do so. Therefore, I will propose that part of the CNB Act be regulated so that the CNB must act as a regulator, as someone who oversees and conducts a super-audit, a super-audition of banks to order them to stop acting like that and that the order be executed. I'm not going into the money return sphere, it's the second sphere. I'm entering the banking break-up area the way they do business. It's possible and it's feasible. Also, the Credit Institutions Act prescribes exactly what banks need to do to stop acting illegally and then we will have two laws. One law where the regulator tells banks what to do and another law where it writes exactly what banks need to do to stop acting the way they behave. Unfortunately, the finance minister has shown a complete lack of understanding of the collective verdict in the Franak case, where he accuses consumers of financial illiteracy, and financial illiteracy has nothing to do with the Franak case. It's got nothing to do with that. With the Franak case, he's only right, right and right again. So, it's the right thing to do that's been broken, the respected finance minister you're coming to, now I'm going to tell you again. So you mentioned that consumers were financially illiterate when they negotiated those loans that were unfair, but it's not about financial literacy, it's about law. The contracts we have signed are legally unfounded, they have legal shortcomings, they have no financial shortcomings, they have legal shortcomings. These legal shortcomings have been determined by a collective verdict. It has been established exactly what is wrong with these loans and it has been found that banks should no longer behave in this way, and banks continue to behave in part. So I said that then in the laws, in these laws that are proposed, I would propose certain changes to end this banking behavior. So I'm not going to propose some kind of money return, let's let it go to the courts, but I'm going to propose certain measures to end this unfair business of banks that are still going on. The next thing I'm going to suggest is that in the sale of debt to the vulture agencies, at the discount price, the debt must first be offered to the debtor. And finally, I'm going to suggest that the agencies that buy it, in the part where they buy out debts from banks, are being placed under the supervision of the CNB because I was speaking in my individual debate that the ownership structure is obviously such that the financial occupation of the Republic of Croatia is under way. I mentioned EOS Matrix that owns rich Michael Otto from Germany, owner of Otto Group, Otto Group owns EOS Group from Germany, EOS Group owns EOS Matrix, and EOS Matrix owns EOS Real estate and where EOS Matrix buys someone's mortgaged debt, and then on that debt, on that mortgage, on that property sold to itself by EOS Real Estates makes 400 to 500% of the value paid by the bank. It's a very immoral job that needs to be put in order, which can be put in order, and that's why I'm going to suggest between two readings of certain changes that can all be fixed as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184816	Representative Ivan Lovrinović will deliver the closing word on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and let's change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184817	Hey colleagues, respected ministers with associates, there are few of us left, there is no public transmission, public television thinks that the change of the Law on the National Bank, the CNB and the banks, credit institutions, she thinks it doesn't matter, why, I've read a little and their books, we'll talk about it soon, they're in addition to paying them annually on the burden of TV fees of 100 million kuna, they owe extra to the banks about 180 million kuna, and so of course they don't let us out of the opposition to talk on public television that we pay but it'll come soon when we do. Here it is, the next financial crisis will shake the euro project even further and perhaps send it back to history unfortunately. The EU project is a good, visionary idea, a Christian idea, a humanist idea to bring people together, not to war, to trade, to exchange knowledge, but to steal that good idea, who? Corporate, meaning financial oligarchy, and it turned the EU into a sovereign capital union instead of a union of peoples, sovereigns and states. And then they gave Sura an integral function to create from that union a state which is impossible. See, that's why Italy has a public debt of 2,000 200 billion euros and their GDP is around 1800 billion. Therefore, the moment the interest rates in the euro zone begin to grow, Italy will start to shake fiercely and you can see that it is already growing so-called. They are only people who fight for the interests of the Italian people, those who are poor, but they are called populists, although the word populist means the fighter for the good of his people. So why is Italy going to help us? So when Italy starts to shake, then the simple euro project here in Croatia will become known, my people, so don't be, are you normal? So look at the big countries shaking like Italy and you little countries will when you're all restrained, when you're not waiting, you push, you push for personal reasons the euro, for political reasons only for a particular group, and that's clear to the Croatian people. But fortunately, Italy will save us, and Greece will save us, which is even more difficult, but Italy is seen, by the arrival of these new political forces, they have already launched and completed the project of parallel currency, the return of the lira, and at a certain point when it is necessary, they can simply, the prices that exist, express in the euro and in the new currency, I guess some new lira, and they have ready that project. Of course, these dead in Frankfurt and Brussels are not talking about it, but we know who we're dealing with. So, let's be smart citizens, I look forward to your healthy logic, you become more and more in debt in kunas, watch out, no one said that, I'll proudly say, for the first time, the amount of all approved loans in kunas, in total amount of all approved loans, first came to 50% and until a few years ago there was 70% in favour of foreign loans related to the currency clause and 30% in kuna alone. So we've already come to 50-50% of what I think, I'm happy, I'm proud, if I've contributed at least 1, 0.1% to change your consciousness, you're making money in kunas, you're looking for only loans in kunas, you don't let the kuna drive us out of circulation because they have an idea to introduce the euro, it's not our currency, it's a currency that doesn't have its own state, you don't know who suits it, you understand. And when it comes to this, the EU is a mess, and that is why the EU project is being challenged by the euro area and everything else. In that sense, therefore, the euro certainly means that if it were to be introduced, the sure rise in prices, the fall in wages, the fall in competitiveness, the only savings would be on the cost of conversion, these are so many negligible benefits that it's not worth mentioning so therefore, our kuna, I would really say what it really is, it's ours, we have to give it a chance but not with these people who have been destroying domestic monetary policy for 20 years, there's no economic policy, there's a kuna, these are the people we have to push off the political scene, here's thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184818	Minister Zdravko Maric came forward on behalf of the promoter for the closing statement, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184819	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, here's only in the end to thank you for the debate, for the replicas, for the comments, for the questions and all that happened during the debate, I think that a good part of the debate has passed in one constructive tone, I think that a good part of us has agreed that on such an important topic it is good that not only well but necessarily necessary and necessary for all of us to have a healthy argument, that the Croatian public, citizens, are very well acquainted. Nothing will happen overnight, there is a long way ahead of us on this subject, these legislative changes are one small part of the overall problem and the basis of the experiences we have had with Croatia's accession to the EU, in fact the conclusion can be, I would say in a good part the same or very similar to that which is that the better we do our preparatory actions, the better we can prepare ourselves for such important steps, deeper integration of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, that Croatia and Croatian citizens will benefit more and certainly need to discuss all things in an argument. I had recently responded to one replica very clearly that I think that the villa would need and always emphasize first and foremost potentially negative things, possible risks so that we would all be very aware of them but also take into account all the positive effects, you know that the CNB and the Government of the Republic of Croatia before now can say and for a year and a half, we have produced a document that is analytical, which is quantitative nature, which is trying to look at, measure exactly and use them in some way to confront them in one place. In any case, we need to see very many things, very many elements, I think that the Croatian Parliament also has a role to play through these discussions and general participation in this matter together contributes to a constructive debate, but ultimately to everything we want, which is, of course, the improvement of Croatian citizens. I thank you, of course, and to all those who called me during my absence, so I'll just have to say for a moment I went to the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184820	Representative Aleksic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184821	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, don't be angry, but I ask you never to mention the financial illiteracy or literacy of Croatian citizens when it comes to unfair credit agreements that have been established by a collective court ruling. So it has nothing to do with the financial literacy of citizens, but it has to do with the legal shortcomings in those contracts. The legal shortcomings in the contracts are solely responsible for banks such as traders who acted so unfairly as to establish the Court of Justice of the EU as a top court in the EU. And I ask you to study my proposals carefully between these two readings and agree them with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economy because although it is the laws in your area that are very important and it is very important that the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Justice be involved to look at what I propose. Nothing revolutionary, but very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184822	Replication response, Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184823	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, well, that's the situation where someone wants to hear or hear what they want at that given moment. I am responsible for your replica, I did not refer at all to the problem of Swiss it is your topic that you are constantly running here, I am talking about the entire system financially, and my answer was on the subject of financial literacy that is needed in the Republic of Croatia, mainly among the younger population to do everything possible to raise that awareness, raising the quality of the general financial description of Croatian citizens. I didn't refer to this subject at all, no matter what messages your internal groups have coming to me, which interpreted those words of mine in a way I don't know. I didn't teach anyone, I didn't teach anybody any lessons, I'm just saying that it's the responsibility of all of us, the Ministry of Finance is one of the integral institutions, and we're making our contribution to simply raising financial literacy to as high as possible. I think that Croatian citizens and how very smart and intelligent and financial descriptions are, however, also new trends and generally dynamics that the financial system in the world is developing requires of all of us to be always careful with this and, of course, build on our knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184824	Thank you. With this closed, I'll close the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184825	Proposal for a Law supplementing the Act on the Croatian National Bank, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 829. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian National Bank and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 78 votes for and 9 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184910	The next item on the agenda is: - Third revision of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant Decommissioning Programme and the third revision of the Radioactive Waste Disposal Programme (RAO) and spent Nuclear Fuel (ING) Nuclear Power Plants, / giving prior consent to the Croatian Parliament for Confirmation/ The holder is the delegation of the Republic of Slovenia to the Interstate Commission for the Monitoring of Implementation of the Treaties and other tasks under the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations related to the investment, exploitation and decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr Ivo Milatić, member of the RS delegation in the interstate commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184911	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, as a member of the delegation of the Republic of Croatia in the interstate commission to monitor the implementation of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations in relation to investments, use and decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, allow me to present the third revision of the programme for the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the programme for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from the propulsion and decommissioning of Krško Nuclear Power Plant and to request the consent of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the third revision. The power plant is owned by Slovenian and Croatian state energy companies, Gen energy d.o.o. and HEP of 50%: 50%. The facility is operated by Krško d.o.o. Nuclear power plant, all radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel generated by the operation of the plant is stored at the location of the plant. Radioactive waste shall be conditioned and packed in steel containers stored in an internal storage of solid radioactive waste. Exhausted nuclear fuel is stored underwater in a special pool for that purpose. In order to improve the safety of spent fuel storage, Krško Nuclear Power Plant plans to build a dry warehouse of spent nuclear fuel, and the start of work is projected for 2021. The contract between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations related to the investment, exploitation and decommissioning of Krško Nuclear Power Plant from 2003 regulated mutual relations with the status of Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the exploitation, decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The Treaty also provides for the establishment of an Interstate Monitoring Commission, the implementation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to regulate status and other legal relations regarding investments, use and decommissioning of Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The Commission monitors the implementation of the interstate contract, confirms the programme for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the programme for the decommissioning of Krško Nuclear Power Plant, resolves open issues related to interstate relations, and is the key body for regulating relations between the parties and the interstate commission are delegations of the Contracting Parties, each delegation has a president and 4 members, always headed by the Minister for Energy in one and another country. The contract provides that the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from propulsion and decommissioning will be carried out in accordance with the programme of decommissioning Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the programme for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from the power plant and the decommissioning of Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The programmes under the contract are approved by the interstate commission, and the decommissioning programme also approves the interstate commission and the decommissioning programme is also the administrative body of the Republic of Slovenia responsible for nuclear security. They foresee the plan of decommissioning the power plant and the disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel and the cost of these activities. The programmes should be revised at least every 5 years for the purpose of more detailed and reliable planning of the planned activities as the time of their implementation approaches. The Interstate Treaty also stipulates that the parties will seek solutions in agreement and finance them in equal shares, so the role of the revision of the programme is important, the revision of costs to correct payments to national funds established for the purpose of collecting funds for the decommissioning of the plant and the disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel. The first revisions of these two programmes were made in 2004 and adopted by the interstate commission under the consent of the Croatian Parliament in 2005. During 2011, the second revision of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant decommissioning programme was drawn up as a single document and the disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel, which is not referred to in the adoption procedure. The Croatian and Slovenian sides failed to agree on the content of the documents and, despite the obligation to review the programme every 5 years, it was never adopted. Therefore, at the 11th session of the Interstate Commission, a decision was taken on the adoption of project tasks for the preparation of the third revision of the decommissioning programme and the programme for the disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel from the plant and the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The third audit was prepared by Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the Agency for Radioactive Wastes from Slovenia, ARAO, and our Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the NEK Fund. The decommissioning and disposal programme consists of documents drawn up in English, as these are materials made by both countries and subject to international tender and international review. The documents shall contain a description of the activities and an assessment of the costs of decommissioning Krško Nuclear Power Plant after the termination of work that was overlooked for 2043, a proposal for possible division and collection of radioactive waste, criteria of acceptance for disposal and deadlines and costs for the disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel. In view of the fact that these documents were made in English, a summary of the third revision of the Krško nuclear power plant decommissioning programme and the third revision of the radioactive waste disposal programme of spent nuclear fuel was drawn up. The summary contains all more relevant information related to the assessment of those costs and as such is an important document for the further sequence of the provision of adequate funds. The documents show that the costs for each country will be around 1.7 billion euros, most of which are related to a deep geological dump that should be built after 2100. At the 13th session held in September 2019, the Interstate Commission took note of the third revision of the decommissioning programme and the delaying programme and claimed that the programmes were properly prepared for further handling in accordance with both countries' internal legislative procedures. In accordance with the Law on Confirmation of the International Treaty, the obligation of the Croatian delegation of the Interstate Commission is to result in the previous consent of the Croatian Parliament on the programme which can then be adopted afterwards. Therefore, a public consultation was launched for the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the decommissioning programme and the delay programme implemented from 15 November to 15 December 2019 and documents and all accompanying studies are available on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection. Following the consultation, the Government finally delivered the document to the Croatian Parliament at its 202nd session held on 16 January 2020 and delivered it to the Croatian Parliament in the interstate commission to obtain from this esteemed home the prior consent for the final adoption of the third revision of the Krško nuclear power plant's decommissioning programme and the radioactive waste disposal programme of spent nuclear fuel from the power plant decommissioning Krško nuclear power plant. Following this, I ask you to give the interstate commission consent to take the position of the RS delegation in the interstate commission to confirm the third revision of the decommissioning programme and the delay programme at the next session, whose maintenance is scheduled at the end of February of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184912	Thank you, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184913	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. In 2004, the first time was created a programme of course adopted in 2005. It's planned to close the nuke in 2043. Please, is it arranged or more or less known where radioactive waste and spent fuel will be taken care of? Whether it will be in Slovenia, in Vrbina or it will be in Shopinska Gora because we know that in 2015 when it was discussed, Istria was mentioned, Međimurje Gorica, Bilogora, etc.?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184914	The answer of the respected Ivo Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184915	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. As far as potential locations are concerned, as far as Croatian sites are concerned, they are not yet defined and objectively there are only two variants, that so far from what we have in the existing documents, it is possibly Vrbina in Slovenia and possibly in accordance with our national programme, the region of Cerkezovac in Croatia, but clearly, it is only in the idea that, in order to do so, we have a long way to go and all the decisions they need.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184916	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184917	Thank you, Vice President. So, a colleague of Kirin actually asked what I wanted to ask, namely in a public hearing from experts, you listed here the costs for the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, and the costs cannot be avoided, but even the information appeared that the Republic of Slovenia would be less cost if it were in agreement with Slovenia on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, of course if the Republic of Slovenia agreed instead of in the municipality of Dvor, Cerkezovac. Therefore, in that sense, the Republic of Slovenia will have to have costs but these costs would be lower if they were in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Do you have any idea at this time, would the Republic of Slovenia even agree to such a scenario? So the entire warehouse should be in their area?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184918	The answer of the respected Ivo Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184919	Thank you for asking, Your Honor. What you've heard, it's still on the system we'd say what she said, is not exactly that it would be cheaper in Slovenia but what I can tell you, the basic problem we have with the neighbouring country so far, and that's on the last interstate commission, the Republic of Slovenia has said no to possible solutions that would be common in Slovenia, also accept Croatian institutional waste. Then there's a problem for the Republic of Croatia because if we get rid of only low-end waste, this low-radio from the plant and we haven't solved what's wrong with God here in our country, then we haven't solved anything in hospitals, so the studies are ongoing, the calculations are ongoing, it's going to be the subject of future work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184920	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak with a respected representative, Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184921	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. The Krško nuclear power plant, which represents the first nuclear power plant of the Western type, is owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia with 50% shares where each side gets 50% of electricity produced. In accordance with the interstate agreement, both sides are equally responsible for ensuring all material conditions and for seeking solutions and contractual financing in equal shares. In the event of a failure to reach agreement on a common solution to the disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel by the end of the regular life span, it shall be bound no later than 2 years after the deadline, complete with the collection and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear waste from the location of the nuclear power plant, each half of which will take place in accordance with the disposal and decommissioning programme. The Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia established an interstate commission to monitor the implementation of the contract and carry out other tasks on the arrangement of status and other legal relations related to the investment, exploitation and decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The Commission also monitors the implementation of this contract, confirms the programme of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel and open issues related to interstate relations and is a key body to regulate relations between the two countries. The decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel is a joint obligation of the parties and must be implemented in accordance with the interstate contract. The decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste itself will be carried out according to already adopted programmes, including both financial resources and deadlines for their implementation. The general objective of this revision is to review the first and second revisions, develop the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear waste and assess nominal costs for developed scenarios. Due to the extension of the life span of Krško Nuclear Power Plant in line with the project task and national strategies and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear waste, the version of decommissioning and disposal according to which Krško Nuclear Power Plant ceases work in 2043. It is of paramount importance that the work of Krško Nuclear Power Plant is fully in line with all security, economic and financial aspects as well as in accordance with the interstate agreement between our two countries that regulate the operation of the plant itself. Therefore, the HDZ Cuba will support the granting of consent to the Republic of Slovenia's interstate commission to monitor the implementation of the contract and to carry out other tasks in accordance with the contract between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations related to the investment, exploitation and decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184922	Thank you. Next was the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, the Honored Representative Zekanovic, who is not there, lost his right to speak. The next one was to be the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, said respected representative Tomislav Panenic, is not there, losing his right to speak. After that, it was supposed to be the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and speak to respected representative Boris Milosevic, gone, losing his right to speak. In an individual debate, a respected representative, Miro Bulj, is missing, losing his right to speak. After that, a respected representative of Sasa Djujic appeared in an individual debate, missing him, losing his right to speak. And the Honorable representative Gordan Maras, the individual debate, is gone, losing his right to speak. That concludes the debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Thank you very much, we'll finish today's work. Tomorrow, on Friday at 9:30 we will begin work and the first item will be the report on the work of the probation service for 2018. Thank you very much. Have a nice afternoon. Session interrupted at 17.14 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-06-0.u184923	Third revision of the program of decommissioning Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the third revision of the programme of disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel Nuclear Power Plant Krško, giving prior consent to the Croatian Confirmation Assembly. The applicant of the RS delegation to the Interstate Commission for the monitoring of the implementation of the contract and other tasks in accordance with the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations related to the investment, exploitation and decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting in favour of the decision to give prior consent. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 80 for, 18 abstentions and 5 against decisions made in the text as proposed by the home body.
