ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188045	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, I will therefore try to present the Climate Change Adjustment Strategy in the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2040, with a view to 2070 as a strategic document that the Republic of Croatia had to adopt because it is one of the 3 EU member states that has not yet adopted such a document. It's a very extensive text, it's done very professionally, it has over 120 pages so I'm going to try to isolate by the chapters what I think is the most powerful and most interesting thing to say. Therefore, climate change poses a growing threat in the 21st century and poses a challenge for all mankind because it affects all aspects of the environment, environmental systems, the economy and threatens the sustainable development of life. The report of the intergovernmental climate change panel from 2019 provides information that the global trend in temperature is already at +1.1 and, if it continues to increase the concentration of greenhouse gases at current speed, global warming is likely to reach +1, 1.5 degrees C above, between 2030 and 2052. The Mediterranean will warm up 20 times faster than the rest of the world and an average increase of 1.5 degrees C with particularly pronounced climate change impacts has already been achieved. There is growing evidence that Croatia is under the influence of climate change and that Croatia is already suffering serious damage from climate change and large amounts are being allocated to the recovery of these damages. Therefore, the Ministry of Environment and Energy as the competent authority for climate policy launched a project to develop this first national climate change adaptation strategy as early as 2016. The vision of the strategy as the basis for which it has been working is that three elements are and this is to reduce the vulnerability of natural systems and societies to the negative impacts of climate change, increase the ability to recover after the effects of climate change and use potential positive effects that can also be due to climate change. It is important here to say that two scenarios, i.e. expected concentrations of greenhouse gases, two spatial resolutions of 12.5 km and 50 km and two time periods until 2040 and 2070 with a reference period of climate status of '71. until 2000. The cycle in 30 years is common for this profession to eliminate all annual climate change anomalies. 12, 20 climate variables have been analysed in the design of this strategy. For the purpose of drawing up this strategy, broad consultations and numerous workshops and meetings were held at local, regional, national level. Public debates were held and workshops with a large number of experts were held in particular. Now I would like to say something about the first segment, the first part of this strategy, the first content relating to the assessment of the effects of climate change and the vulnerability of the sector on climate change. The adaptation to climate change is fundamentally a horizontal issue to be addressed in an integrated manner, with a high degree of coordination among all stakeholders. To this end, the risk of climate change has been analysed and 8 key sectors that are expected to have the most impact on climate change have been identified. Two cross-sectoral topics have also been discussed which are essential for the implementation of full and effective adaptation to climate change, which are spatial planning and editing and management of disaster risks. The arches of the sector or the area of influence that we have analysed are water resources and seas. The main expected impacts that can lead to a high level of vulnerability of water resources are the reduction of water levels in water streams and springs, a reduction of water supply in the underground, an increase in water temperature, an increase in flood frequency and flood intensity in endangered areas, and an increase in sea levels, and the likelihood of floods on the mouths of the water stream. The expected rise in sea level will also have an impact on the coastal infrastructure. According to this study, the most important strategy will be the urban environments with low shores, e.g. places on islands such as Cres, Mali and Veli Losinj, Krk, Rab, Krapanj, Vela Luka, etc., but also in coastal Croatia, for example Nin, Trogir, Ston. Negative changes in this sector are also expected on artificial coastal areas where beaches are built that will lose their functional optimisms, and certain structural damages are possible. The second sector has been exaggerated, or seen, in the area of the impact of climate change in agriculture. The main expected impact of climate change in agriculture is the change in the vegetation period of war culture, with an emphasis on olive grains such as corn, sugar tail, soybeans. The lower yields of all cultures and the greater need for water, and the longer vegetation period will allow some new varieties and hybrids to grow, while more frequent floods and stagnations of surface water will reduce or completely destroy revenues. According to some forecasts, agriculture is the sector that will suffer the most damage from climate change. Climate change is expected to reduce the current agricultural cultures in the Republic of Croatia by 3% to 8% due to climate change by 2050. The drought in the summer months was the largest single cause of damage caused to Croatian agriculture by climate variability, while in the period from 2013 to 2016 caused damage, so the drought caused damage of 3 billion kuna, equivalent to 43% of direct aid paid for agriculture during the same period. Therefore, without increased investment, it will not be possible to achieve a satisfactory percentage of irrigation surfaces, as well as production in plastics, i.e. indoors. Climate change has already been observed to affect the phenological stages of fruit and vegetable cultures, such as apples, vines, olives and corn, so that the vegetation period starts earlier, lasts shorter, but ultimately comes to a drop in yield. Water shortages in soil or droughts and an increase in air temperature during the upcoming period will be two key problems in the fight against climate change agriculture. There are several major expected impacts in the forestry sector that cause high vulnerability in the forestry sector. This primarily refers to higher frequency and longer season of forest fires, including fires on the continent. The trend so far in the number of forest fires shows that they were significantly higher in the dry years, in the Mediterranean area, while projections show that the risk of forest fires will be greater in the future in the area of the entire Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, there is expected to be a shift in the phenological phases of trees in terms of the early start of vegetation and an extension of the vegetation season depending on species and habitats. Due to changes in habitats, habitat conditions could also lead to migration of species and pests, including invasive sides of species. The productivity of some forest eco-systems such as lumbar oaks could be reduced, although it should be stressed that it depends not only on atmospheric changes but also on the way of management and other influences. In the area, in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, the increase in the Adriatic sea temperature was estimated by 1.6 to 2.4 degrees to 2070, which could result in the migration of marine organisms, especially shrimp and donkeys in deeper water and towards the colder north, a greater number of invasive foreign species and the disappearance of traditional fish species. The increase in the acidity of the Adriatic Sea by an eye was estimated, by 0.1 to 0.2 degrees pH of factors that would disrupt shellfish farming in certain areas. Future climate change will affect the economic sustainability of fishing, especially coastal and... fishing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the biodiversity sector as a consequence of the measures, the impact of climate change at habitat level is expected to change the share and the disappearance of some habitats, increases in the arid area, depletion of wet land habitats and immersion of coastal habitats. In doing so, the most vulnerable groups of species have been isolated from the already endangered group of pollinators, which is important to highlight here. In the area of energy, the main expected impact caused by the vulnerability in the energy sector due to climate change is the reduction of electricity production in hydropower plants, due to increased weather distribution, changes in the time distribution of annual rainfall, an increase in electricity consumption for cooling purposes, and damage to energy plants and infrastructure due to extreme weather events, such as ice and floods. In tourism, the main expected impacts in the tourism sector are the reduction of tourism demand in summer months due to high temperatures and increased UV radiation, reduction or loss of attractive ecosystems, and a reduction of water availability, and damage to various infrastructure systems, such as disposal of waste water, disposal of solid waste, beach infrastructure, accommodation infrastructure, etc. The conclusion, therefore, is that climate change makes the northern areas more attractive, the northern areas of Europe could become attractive enough to rest during the summer months, and the Mediterranean and the Republic of Croatia could remain attractive only in the rest of the year. In the health sector, impacts are expected to increase mortality, increase mortality, change in the epidemiology of chronic non-infectious diseases and acute infectious diseases, decrease in air quality, and safety of water and food. In a very important sector of spatial planning and arrangements, spatial planning and regulation plays an extremely important role in reducing the impact on climate change, as land use change, for example from agricultural or forest to building land, or forest conversion into agricultural land, is considered one of the most significant causes of increasing greenhouse gas emissions. This cross-sectoral activity also includes islands. The vulnerability of the built environment from the impact of climate change involves floods in settlements due to growth and extreme sea level, the appearance of thermal islands in settlements due to the impact of extreme temperatures, in particular the rise in the number of hot days and days with a temperature above 35 degrees. Therefore, estimates of the average sea level growth in Croatia, on the Croatian coast, ranged from 0.32 m to 0.65 m to 2100 years, with the latest estimates increasing to 1.1 m height. When the influences of the occasional extreme sea levels, ranging from 0.84 to 1.15 m, are added to them, extreme occasional sea levels are obtained at the end of the century ranging from 1.4 to 2.2 m. The basis of spatial planning and arrangement is a multi-sectoral interdisciplinary approach that sees, coordinates and regulates the needs of the space of all other sectors. An important instrument is integrated coastal management to reduce pressure from pollution of human activities in the coastal area and the marine environment. And finally, the disaster risk management sector, the main expected causes in this sector are slides, floods, open-type fires, extreme temperatures, pandemics. Therefore, the current readiness, the assessment of this study, the current readiness of the civil protection system in the area of response, has been assessed as high, while civil protection preparedness in the field of preventive assessment has been assessed as low. In the part of the strategy dealing with climate change adaptation measures, it is important to say that, on the basis of previous analyses of the existing situation in sectors and an assessment of the degree of vulnerability by certain sectors, a set of measures is set out in each sector to effectively define the system of adaptation to climate change. The strategy, therefore, proposes a total of 83 measures. Adjustment measures have been selected by a multi-criteric analysis conducted in cooperation with sectoral experts and in consultation with over 130 stakeholders and all sectors and thematic areas represented. The largest number of measures proposed in this Strategy are the so-called ‘. non-structured measures. These are administrative, political, legislative, technical, planning measures. Relatively smaller number, so-called structural measures, such as measures covering any building facility or natural structure, aim to reduce or avoid possible impacts of climate change, include certain technical procedures, such as the construction of protective dams and walls, the construction of hydrotechnical facilities, but also the reforestation and construction of green infrastructure. Therefore, it should not be surprising that a much larger number of non-structured nature measures, because adaptation to climate change is entering into those human activities that need to be planned on an extremely long period of time with a large number of uncertainty and certain uncertainty. In... In the part of the strategy that defines the means needed to ensure that these measures are implemented, it has been said, that the total amount for the implementation of the Adjustment Strategy at the moment can be estimated at nearly 27 billion kuna, i.e. around 3.6 billion euros for the period up to 2040. More than half of the estimated amount of waste for the implementation of structural measures, mainly in the sectors of agriculture, forestry, the water economy and to a lesser extent in the energy and tourism sectors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If a 20-year period is observed, the average annual cost of implementing this Adjustment Strategy would be around 1.3 billion kuna and 183 million euros, respectively. This may seem a large amount, but it should be compared with the amount of average annual damage caused by extreme weather events, and they have been recorded and registered at 295m euros annually. So these damages are almost twice the cost of implementing the measures in this Strategy. In the part of the strategy on how to implement it, the strategy will be implemented, so this document and the parameters set out in this document, i.e. measures, will be implemented in a technical sense through action plans, i.e. an action plan containing the development of concrete measures, activities for a specified five-year period, description, method of implementation, implementation schedule, the deadline for implementation will be defined bonds, the coordinators of the implementation of actions measures, as well as sources of funding. So these are the elements of this action plan and they're assigned by law. This action plan, for your information, is already at a certain stage, in the draft, it will probably be presented to the public before the annual vacation, it's kind of our optimistic plan, but in any case it will be by the end of this year, the action plan this will be available to the public. And in conclusion, all European policies already include risks of climate change and require large infrastructure to include elements of adaptation in its projects, which is the most important thing. Therefore, the new green plan, the European Green Plan, the multiannual financing framework for its period of 2021-2027, strongly supports investment in adaptation to climate change and strengthening resilience. So, this is an opportunity for us to develop the priority measures that are defined by this strategy into projects to be acceptable to co-financing from the EU fund and thus to disburse the national budget as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188046	Let's go now with the replicas, there are 14 of them. First of all, he's a respected colleague of the Bulls. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188047	Thank you very much, President. Here, I wanted to tell the secretary that this government and finally has a vision, means adapting climate change for the 2040s to, with a view to 2070s, although here you mentioned water, drinking water that there would be less drinking water, but the government is doing waste management centres at water springs such as. The lens, you mention energy that there will be less hydropower, and we have as many suns as you want and solar energy, you mention that you will solve the problem with waste and, but you can't solve vervain waste where you carry 150 km old with trucks, so we've finally discovered only from this climate change adaptation strategy for 2040 to 2070 that the government finally has a vision even though the greater pest is the government for climate change itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188048	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188049	Dear Representative, so we didn't mention that we were going to solve this strategy and we've done a state analysis and we've prescribed measures. These measures will be defined by the action plan in all its implementation elements and how this will be addressed only in time. So, we didn't even say here that we were going to solve these problems, but we've articulated them here and made it clear that we're aware of all the risk assessments in all the sectors.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188050	Now let's go to another replica, dear colleague Zekanovic, please. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The third is the esteemed colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188051	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State in one part of your presentation, or a good part of your exposure, you have devoted yourself to the problem of agriculture and forests, as well as to the subject of fire in the woods. Now, we had one very unusual provision in another law, it's the Law on the Forests of Article 46, which says that after a fire occurred in the woods that there was no re-use for 10 years. I went to watch a bit, we're one of the few EUs and I haven't been able to find someone else who has it, it's said that after the fire it can be, how, not the topic of re-use. So I'm interested in what's important, it's important if we really want to have a quality fight against climate change to make sure that in all regulations, we don't get past something that would definitely be a counter strategy. It seems to me that this provision of Article 46 is absolutely not in line with the strategy you're proposing, so I'm interested in your view on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188052	I thank the honourable MP, so there was a couple, and on many occasions we talked about, about this strategy, we think we now have for the first time a strategic document that shows the results of all climate models and expected climate change. And what we think should and should be binding, so no sector or body of government should ignore these results from this strategy and should bring its legislation and their norms into line and subdue, submit to this document. And that's what this strategy is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188053	Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188054	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, at the end of the debate, you yourself said the key element for implementing this strategy is money. So you're saying that action plans will be needed, it's about agriculture worth $12.5 billion, forestry 5.2 billion, water resources 5.5 billion. Let's just go to water resources, we need to pay particular attention to the fact that every year the ministry brings in indicative plans, and then with these indicative plans if the unrealistic tenders are late and therefore we are late in the end with the realisation of these funds and it is questionable whether we are actually going to succeed, this huge amount of 27 over 27 billion kuna is realised precisely because of the slowness in the implementation of the competitions and the unrealistic plans that individual ministries are bringing. Just take the Celebrity Project, so-called. The project Slavonia in the area of water supply and disposal are the largest part of the funds and there are actually competitions in these large, large projects very late.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188055	Thank you. You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188056	So, Your Honor, first thing, I don't think money is the primary issue in this whole thing, I think the primary question is our ability to pull it in a quality way through quality projects, well-designed projects. So, in the next new framework of the European Commission, certain funds are provided for, so here for the next 20 years, water resources are projected somewhere around 5.4 billion kuna, and for agriculture 12.5 billion, so they are either there, or they will be there, the question of how much we as a society will be able to withdraw them in quality, and action plans will be set priorities and order, order of this withdrawal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188057	Comrade Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188058	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I was expecting Mr. Secretary of State that you will be thundering at the pay phone today as Greta Thunberg from Sweden given this climate change adaptation strategy, which you should actually do even though some of our colleagues think it's a long way off. However, when you look at the EU Environment Protection Agency, which says that Croatia in three countries is the most vulnerable to cumulative share of damage, and you said that we spend 68 million EUR per year on damage, given this strategy is 500 million kuna, which would mean, for example, units of local self-government or, say, hospitals of that 500 million kuna. Therefore, that share of the damage is monitored from 1980 to 2013. Do you have data from 2013 to 2020 whether this share of damage has decreased, remained the same or increased? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188059	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188060	Your Honor, we don't have any information at this time on how to move these amounts in damages, in principle it's on the rise, but we can send you exact information, send it to the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188061	Comrade Dobrović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188062	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, poor country with such strategists, I say that despite the fact that the strategy itself is quite neatly professionally done. But that's what I'm saying because it's seen from your exposure and the policy that's being conducted that this is perceived as a world to itself. There are no measures related, no effects on current policies by sectors, and this long deadline that you mention as characteristic of this profession is nothing more than an alibi for inaction. So, it is a shame that we cannot see in any sector concrete measures that are quite feasible in certain and defined money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188063	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188064	Dear Representative Dobrović, this is your position, I respect him. So, the action plan that is in the works, which is normally adopted under the Climate Change Act, its elements are defined. So, the content of the action plans and the content of the strategies is defined by some previous law, and we have only respected those provisions here. So, he's in the projection as he was supposed to be. We are these measures, the measures are set here, and they will be defined by the action plan by priority. Whether it will satisfy all opinions, I can't say it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188065	Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188066	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You mentioned that the possibility of tourism also moving in certain months to northern areas as a guess, but not only tourism, a certain agricultural production that has not been common until now will move. You said yourself that the biggest damage in agriculture, the smaller yields and up to 8% are expected. You know, the northern countries are already testing some cultures that were now common to the Mediterranean climate, having serious scientific research and trying to implement these cultures on these lands. I am interested in whether this strategic document as a basic document, and to what extent it is envisaged to invest in research science as a basis for further development of progress, in fact, protection from climate change, primarily in agriculture and certain cultures that would be good, in the Republic of Croatia? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188067	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188068	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor, there's, uh, there's, uh, a little bit of a set-up, more of a subject. So, first thing, agriculture, we're here and we clearly defined what problems are in agriculture. So we didn't say they didn't exist. So, the drought is the cause of the fall, the future decline in production expected by 3 to 8%, and then we said that we think that we need to be increased investments in this segment of production. And as for this measure itself, we have measures as well as Scandinavians, testing new cultures, and we have predicted this here since 2015. The ministry is investing in research and development quite a means. We have programmes for stimulating research activities in the area of climate change, and 10 projects are being funded right now. In the scheme for strengthening primary research, we have five more projects for adaptation measures. So it's not like we're out of all these world trends in some of our own. activities. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188069	Now it's up to your colleague, Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188070	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I did not notice the secretary of state that in your strategy you are talking about solving transport infrastructures in urban areas, you know what the situation is in Zagreb and we cannot transfer everything to local self-government units. So, yesterday I was with the people of Sesveto, there at a traffic light, so in the morning he waits half an hour, you might think what the concentration there is of pollution. A scientific study yesterday revealed that air pollution in urban areas reduces life to 3 years, that the rate of mortality than air pollution is greater than AIDS or malaria. So, I didn't see in the strategy that you were dealing with the team, so the solutions given that we had a situation in the City of Zagreb where the degree of pollution is very large, so here, can you answer me that question?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188071	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188072	Your Honor, I would not analyse the infrastructure in the City of Zagreb, but I would like to tell you in principle what comes from this strategy. So, all large, all large infrastructure projects financed from EU funds, and this is our goal mainly, are going through climate change testing. So it's a principled position and we stick to that principled attitude, and I wouldn't comment on the infrastructure in the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188073	Now it's time for my fellow Weldergay, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188074	I thank President HS. Dear Secretary of State, I will begin by welcoming the adoption of this strategy, this is important, this is the most important topic and I am very sorry that we do not have a Minister here. I believe that these topics should certainly be part of the parliamentary debates. Moreover, the resolute minister, meaning the minister of the portfolio in which we unfortunately have a great deal of trouble, so I will say even chaos, we know in what state our waste management is in, that recently the Constitutional Court has made a decision suspending your regulation that you insist on pushing despite what the profession and local self-government are telling you differently. So my doubt is here if we didn't lay the foundations in that vault, and surely that would, that's waste management, then how do you expect this strategy to be not another document that will serve to, to collect actually dust somewhere in the ministry drawer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188075	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188076	Your Honor, Mr. Minister is currently in Brussels for a presentation at the presentation of a new draft of the Climate Act before the Commission. So if he wasn't there today, he probably would have been there today, that's what I can say. Uh, let's wait for the Constitutional Court to pass the word, the rightful word of the regulation, and then we'll all comment on it. I won't before the Constitutional Court makes a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188077	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188078	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, colleague Dobrović and colleague of Sladolev from my Club, and fellow Bulj have actually said everything, there is no strategy here, you are talking about a small number of rainy days with consequently, this and less produced electricity from these sources, but you do not see the opportunity, you do not see the possibility, meaning the production of electricity through solar power plants, MOST has proposed the Microsolars Act and within our new programme we will have a solar or solar plan, so I would like to send a message to our citizens, 40% more electricity can be produced in the Dalmatian Zagora than is produced in southern Germany with solar panels, 40%, in Istria 30% more. These are huge opportunities and MOST has policies for this, and unfortunately you are still lost in both time and space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188079	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. You've been over 10 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188080	I'd like to thank the Honorable representative of the bush. So these are good opportunities, absolutely no one says that they are not and no, they will probably work on these opportunities, but these further investments in this sector have been processed by another strategy, and not this one, so that's the topic of the Energy Strategy, so that we don't get a little confused here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188081	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188082	The Honorable Chairman and Mr. Secretary of State. I didn't recognize from all of this, maybe I'm wrong, the tendency to acquire the ability of society to deal with climate change. Exceptionally, I would like to stress that we as one small nation need to focus on developing knowledge of this and all those products that should come out of this knowledge in order to meet the needs of climate change, or to respond to that. I suggest that both the need and the obligation to invest in institutes, biotechnology, immunological and so on, which will provide answers to those, and the problems you have predicted, I believe well because the profession has worked.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188083	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188084	I thank you, Your Honor. So the acquisition of society's ability, clearly that we're all thinking about it, we've done a state-of-the-art analysis here as some kind of starting reference, and now society should, therefore, all the competent institutions, all the public bodies, should rely horizontally on these our analyses. We have here in the second part and measures, among other things, and such two measures are foreseen here. Will we as a society be able to implement in the next period of this measure or most of the measures, I would like it to be so, I can't answer it right now, but the measures...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188085	Here you go, Comrade Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188086	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This strategy is long-term and visionary to me, but everyone has their answers, everyone has criticism. The greenhouse gases are responsible for warming and climate change, the most represented greenhouse gas is water steam, then carbon dioxide, then methane. The presence of greenhouse gases raised the temperature of the Earth's atmosphere and responsibly... This warming has led to the development of life on Earth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If there were no greenhouse gases, the temperature of the atmosphere would be 33 degrees lower, so the warming is the result of greenhouse gases from industry, from fuel-powered fossil fuel, so we have to look for simple solutions. Fossil fuel is the gas that needs to be used maximum, electricity is inevitable, do you agree with me that climate change is caused by problems in agriculture such as... said the one who controls the food, controls the people,... well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188087	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, colleague Kirin. Comrade Kirin, thank you very much. You're half the time already. There's no answer, so let's go to a colleague of Vlaovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188088	Someone didn't shut down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188089	Turn yourself off.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188090	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with associates. By proposing this Strategy, you are going in two directions, stressing the principle of adaptation to climate change in planning, development projects and in the other direction you are talking about measures that are mainly administrative, planning and legislative. We at HSS disagree that we are going according only to the principle of adaptation, but we must go from ourselves, changing ourselves that man is the greatest, most of his work is an impact on climate change, and surely we must not bring ourselves into the situation that changes in the biotop, biodiversity, species preservation, or that we must work to reduce greenhouse gases, we should also put emphasis on what we are going to do in the Strategy. And secondly, what about the Action Plans, when it will be, will you include the profession in it, and I think it's too little money for this because it's not enough administration, administration, or plan, but it's also necessary to act immediately, not for a year, two or five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188091	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188092	We fully agree with you in the first part, so we all have to change in this direction, first we go from ourselves, and then we all have to start thinking differently together, I think that's why here in the Strategy and said that most of the measures of non-structure nature, so we're just adapting society's consciousness to new, new obligations and challenges. The low carbon strategy will be very quick to see the public, so the Action Plan as well. It may seem ambitious to you but it will certainly be presented this year and low carbon, and action plan, and then we will have a circled, all the foundation, all the basis for, for this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188093	The 14th replica of my colleague Mikulić. Here you go. Someone didn't shut down. Secretary, here you go. All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188094	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. Climate change is our reality and we are all witnessing floods and frequent and numerous fires and extreme heats together, etc. and it was really necessary to adopt such a strategy, or one analysis of the situation in the Republic of Croatia, but because of the development of the measures that you have been talking about, the activities of the strategy itself, I wonder when we can realistically expect these action plans? You said by the end of the year, and to what extent we'd finally be able to finance them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188095	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188096	Thank you. So, I think that's going to be public by summer, up to vacations. It's kind of our plan, since the draft is prepared, I think we've already done most of it, and we hope that before our vacations we'll have opportunities for the public to get to know all the elements of this action plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188097	We're done with the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, a respected colleague of Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188098	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I welcome the representatives of the ministry headed by the secretary of state. I welcome, of course, all of you, colleagues and colleagues, of course, our citizens, everyone who follows us. So we have a climate change adaptation strategy ahead of us. The adjustments, therefore, are an adaptation to the fact that climate change is taking place and that conditions have changed, in many sectors this is strongly observed, and this Strategy aims to define the measures by which society adapts to these new conditions. So, it's not that myth or prevention, so the prevention of climate change, but what many are chasing, however, everything is connected, and so are many of the measures that we can already do today in terms of emission reductions, can and can have very good effects on adaptation in certain sectors. The Secretary of State mentioned the horizontality, that this was a strong rule, a method for drawing up this Strategy. It is a good thing that, namely, there is a necessary horizontality, therefore, it is not a matter of one sector, one office, it is a matter of connecting, therefore, with everyone and in principle I must say that this Strategy, given the circumstances in which it was made, given the understanding that the current policy has on these issues, and also this Strategy, is very good and the contributions that have come from individual bodies such as DHMZ, the Ministry, therefore they are through the manual, it is seen that there was not some synergy and study work, but here are the contributions that are quite solid and ultimately, the document looks like this and I say, we could be satisfied with that. But can we really be satisfied? No, because, I mean, after this debate and the vote, it's going to be one clutch. This Strategy, such as the Strategy and the Action Plan for Nature Protection, etc., has been carried out, so these are all individual documents drawn up in some plan and they are being done and that is the sad reality that exists in Croatia. Sad policy and management of societies where strategy and strategic approach are left out. There is no synergy, there is no recognition of opportunities, there is no feeling for this moment, there is therefore a strong particular individual approach which is here, another strategy will be carried out and the minister will certainly be in the government, and then the Prime Minister is happy to be able to report and report to the government, and the Prime Minister there in Brussels, here, we have this, these documents brought. It's very bad because we don't need a strategy at all then, it's purely formal because the effects the secretary of state is saying will now define action plans that will again be a series of measures that are envisaged and seen exclusively through cost, it all makes no sense. Besides, it's not going to happen that fast, the question is whether by the summer, by the end of the year or not, I don't know when. Here, I'm going to show you an example of some sectors of importance. We have a water management sector. We know that Croatia is currently in transition, that it is in the intensive construction and spending of European money, in the construction of the collection infrastructure, but now primarily for the processing of waste water. So, I'm talking about municipal wastewater, industry takes care of its own waters, but that's what there are, right? Communal waste water is processed so on the devices and their output, 2 are exits, one is treated waste water, and the other is municipal mud. And what is it? That's the problem. Yes, this is in principle a problem, i.e. it is seen in the sector as a problem and treated waste water, for it is used by the Adriatic, so very expensive undersea discharges where water of certain purity is released into the sea or into rivers or I don't know any further, there are naturally rules, but whether this processed waste water is actually one resource, therefore processed waste water that it has, if 2 degrees has nitrogen and phosphorus there is also some organic matter else therefore microbiologically stabilised is a valuable resource for agriculture. So we're talking about water shortages, we're talking about irrigation, and nobody's seriously considering it, but it's just mentioned here and there. And what can be done now, given the designs, is that the construction is predicted at least, to talk about it, to prepare users for the recovery of processed waste water into agriculture. So this is one measure for which there is already a good part of the money, with which the effects are achieved and you don't have to invent hot water from, in offices to figure out how to look and copy from books from other strategies. It's a very high-quality measure, so go, how can we not import lemon from Israel? They, you know how many waters they have per man per year? At least 40 times less than Croatia. The mud, the communal mud, it's just a problem, it's a miracle of a problem. So, communal mud as a product of treatment is biomass that can be and of course polluted, there's a rule of application that defines the quality of mud that should not be allowed, applying it for agricultural purposes, but there's over 100,000 tons somewhere, 120,000 tons of dry matter when all the devices are built and that's for the water economy problem, but it's here for this resource policy because there's nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, there's organic matter because it's circulating matter in nature. So, communal mud is a resource that depending on its quality can be used either for this or for that, I don't want to debate now whether it can go for corn or vineyard, but cultures of short periods according to which the same state is quite restrictive that space we have, allow people to deal with it, place it in those areas because there is no special danger of endangering health and experience the effects and on the balance sheet of glass gases, mitigation and adaptations, all of which you have, you have multiplier effects there are present and the economy. Why isn't there, why don't we have that kind of access? Then waste, waste management, so over 600,000 tons of biodegradable municipal waste. Everyone talks about it and they think it's a problem and it's a problem, in Mariscina, the problem in Kastion is the problem and it's going to be in Lečevica and anywhere else we build a system that didn't predict what was needed, and that's separate collection was a waste. Because when this biodegradable waste is separately collected as it is in Prelog, as in Osijek or in Krk, it can be produced and produced quality compost, again nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, organic matter. This compost applied now because it is clean, wherever you want in agriculture has a direct positive effect precisely on the measures that you mention the ability to retain moisture in the soil. And now imagine solving one problem you have benefits in another sector, that's policy integration, and that's not what we have in Croatia. There are high fences all over the place, everyone's considering their own, and as soon as there's no connection, there's trouble everywhere, and there's expenses everywhere. So, this communal mud, now this compost represents a quality resource worth money and achieves a lot of positive effects. But no, we're building, so we're doing exactly the opposite, we have, look at the public call to finance composts. Look, there's a need for physicality in the current economic conditions, which means that the communals have to raise the price for acceptance and then stick to it in the time of this which is intended to finance the work, stick to it and burden the citizens despite the fact that there are very external secondary and tertiary effects that are important because here it's defined because here you're talking about billions of kunas that are going to cost for measures, and we have the resources that can change policy and immediately use those benefits, so right now here if these composites build this in a year, two and at least half of the waste is subject to that process, so you know what the effects are, and you're just going to come up with action plans, and you have everything in your hands. But no, the public call is such that the rules for funding are as strict as to build I don't know what, so that's inadmissible, it's a lack of seriousness in resolving strategic issues. So, these fences that exist now for composting, as well as for sorters, so for biowaste, they're also unauthorized, so they can't be allowed because at the end of the story with what you're writing here, but you're writing it as a measure of indecisive, but one day someone's going to ask us, but that's why it's being built and it's being called the CGO Lučino distance, look out. Please get acquainted with this, half a billion kunas without problems, the minister is not a problem to spend half a billion kunas for a center of 38,000 tonnes that is 50 km away from Dubrovnik, the place where the largest source of waste, at 400 metres above sea level, 1000 metres away in one pocket along BiH border, the cross intact, these which produce honey, it is, it is, it is among the top quality, biodiversity, the water supply down, whether Bistrica, whether Dubrovnik coast, whatever, it is not, it is ours that signed that it is all okay and the procedure goes, we have a rule, there is no color found, there is no color found and that, it proves that there is no connection, and we would like to have this stone consumed the top quality. So what are we talking about? And you're here to mention a strategy that we should all admire now. And practical policy makes decisions that will have far-reaching consequences and destroy the future of people. So that purity of that end is worth the money. And the fact that there's no drive, okay, there's no GDP, but there's a reason why tourism, but let's keep it safe. So we're unconscious, we as state, as managers of that, we manage that space, we create conditions for life. However, we do great evil. Therefore, it is hypocritical now to praise or bring such a strategy when practical policies are very specific with concrete money, and we are unable to learn from Marišcina and Kastion where the problem is, biowaste is the problem of my people, biowaste is the problem, it smells when it is collected together, separate it, sleep with some splash, you can also compost it very easily and you have a product, circulating matter in nature in a normal healthy way. So here I am sorry that the situation with our policy is what it is, and the clutch on this strategy for the Croatian future will mean absolutely nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188099	Thank you. Before we move to the next debate, please welcome together representatives and representatives of the Croatian minority from the European countries who are guests of HS and the Committee, the Committee on Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. Welcome! ... Here you are now, dear colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, on behalf of the GLAS Club of Representatives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188100	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, we have before us a proposal for a strategy to adapt to climate change in the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2040 with a view to 2070. At the moment before the vote of the Republic of Croatia, 3 EU countries do not have a 27-nation strategy. After the vote, which will be one Friday, the Republic of Croatia will no longer be among the three countries, and I think that's good. This is a very correct strategy, it is technically well done, it is done as it should be and we will absolutely support this strategy at the GLAS Club, and I must admit that I am personally pleased that the Republic of Croatia is no longer among those 3 countries that have no strategy, but that the Republic of Croatia will also be among the other 25 countries, so the EU that will have the Climate Change Adjustment Strategy. Without a strategy you can't take a step further, without a strategy you can't go and it's important that we have it and it's important that we bring it, because I don't think there's going to be any major obstacles. And now comes the decimal and the but. At this point, it is up to the minister to decide that it is more important for him to listen to the draft law in Brussels than to be here in HS and present a strategy. The minister to whom it is important to the portfolio, the minister who really wants to make a move would be there, boasting with the strategy and answering our questions because in this way he would show me this problem is important to me, it's important that the Republic of Croatia has it, I will absolutely make sure that I have action plans behind it and that I have everything I need. But the minister decided in my neighborhood that I can't say from this pay phone that he sees something way, but to come here and be with us and present myself, I was polite, and present a strategy. Because I well remember some other strategies, when some other ministers who are no longer present came to the assembly late in the evening to represent their strategy, so let's also commend those who really took care of it because it is the success of the resort and that is the success of something and that is an indication that you care about it. But so much for the minister, now I've spent a minute and a half before, too much time. There are 4 million of us, and when we talk about climate change, climate change is a fact. So that each of us in our lives, in our daily work, in our lives, in our home, can make a little move, that's four million shifts, and we've made something. We went with a letter to HS saying it would be good if during the time, we went to the government, we hadn't received a reply from the government yet, that it would be good when the Republic of Croatia chaired the EU Council to remove all those plastic spoons, straws, glasses, and also other restaurants that the Government ate in this way we actually show that little shift. Because all of this ultimately results in climate change. Mr. President HS, the answer that we received in approximately two sentences means the first sentence that has been applied since 2021, which is clear to us, but we always don't know why the Republic of Croatia must be the last one? Why can't it be among those countries first, and the second part of the answer, or second sentence, is that we have a signed framework agreement for public procurement, so that's our framework agreement, so we can't go beyond that, we all know what a framework agreement is for public procurement and that it can be done differently. It would be good if we did it, we can still do it because that's how we actually show that we care. In this way we show paper to suffer everything, on paper we have everything we need, and in real life something else. What exactly is the climate? The climate is defined for some climate or some area in some period by a set of mediocre or expected meteorological elements, variables and phenomena. The climate is affected by sun, earth and atmospheric radiation. The composition of the atmosphere, ocean and air currents, the division of land and sea ice, longitude, relief, land and sea division, altitude, distance from sea or larger water surfaces, composition of soil, plant cover, as well as human action. For years, we, man, have really been in our own business and in our own indifference, I would say, by nature, lead to the situation we have today. Rare politicians around the world say that climate change is gone, and one of them is Mr Trump, who ignores it, but then nature gives it back to hurricanes and some other things that are. That climate change is also a fact in Croatia, we do not need to interpret it to one another. I purposely read what the definition of climate is to realize that we are part of a big story. Croatia has its very interesting position which is part of the land and part of the Mediterranean. When you look at scientific research at all, the Mediterranean is on fire. The largest climate change in Europe to the Mediterranean is expected there and the consequences of these climate change, if we do not move with our small activities, really stop now, big activities, big measures, they are already visible, and will be visible soon and differently. There are two things we do now and in the political world absolutely there is in Croatia is somehow the biggest light, these are migrations and it is the coronaryvirus. When you read everyone who talks about climate change, they say that health-related illnesses will be new diseases, new viruses, new situations in which we will have to adapt. So, the consequence of climate change is that too. Now, of course, that sounds so good-looking and we can say well, that's so we'll kind of adapt, we'll sort of do it. Look at this moment is a shortage of masks, whether they help or not. A shortage of all those departments where they have to be health workers. Does it not seem to you all together that it would be convenient to say, the economy recognizes that you should be an incentive for someone who decides to deal with and produce masks or choose to deal with and produce, say, those protective departments, which is very likely very simple, but it is possible. It's actually a fight against it. You sometimes fight the consequences, but sometimes you have to fight in some other way. Another topic 15 years ago, I was at a gathering that was connected to spatial planning and there was one gentleman, so this century, he said, the 21st century would be climate migration. I had a big questionnaire above my head at the time, and I probably even got my eyes open because I didn't know what he was talking about, and he said. There will be people who won't be able to live where they live because there won't be water. That's what we've all learned, no water, no life. No life, no plant, no animal, no life, no man. He says, there will be people living in places where there will be no water. They'll have to move because they'll die if they stay there. That's when I said, well, it doesn't seem like it, maybe a man's exaggerating a little bit, hasn't gone too far for a second. This next one will be such migration. Not only will there be no water, look at two data that maybe you should just imagine. One, you had a +20 in Antarctica. On one island that is in that composition, 20% of the snow has melted. That's a fact. Maybe someone in the future will take a summer and go on, of course, a joke, somewhere else. And another fact, look at the images made by the satellite, China, as China in terms of pollution looked before the coronary virus and what it looks like today in terms of pollution, which actually shows you everything. It shows how we behave and shows the real state of the world. And equally, we have to keep an eye on ourselves, and I think it's very important that we go away from ourselves. The fight against climate change, or I won't say fight because climate change is there, but adaptation and adaptation to new things is looking for money. It's neither cheap nor simple. It's long-term and it's looking for investment. But it should have started already, if we didn't start now. But in order for everyone to understand it together, we need to talk about it. Yesterday on one of our TVs, I first saw a serious contribution that speaks about the context, which means textiles related to the use of textiles in consumer society and which means climate change. This year, Oscar was given much more attention to those actresses who wore the clothes they were already wearing. We can joke, so we can just say to them, they have at least two, two rooms full of clothes, but they thus showed and said, let's say Jane Fund said that she would never buy another dress again but would wear all the time the dresses she had. You have today, I'm not really such a freak, nor am I one of those extremely related to climate change, nor am I bound by chains somewhere but I want by my actions, my action is to speak for this speaker, point to this problem. In the City of Zagreb there are 100 tonnes of clothes thrown at the level of the year. I'm saying this about the City of Zagreb, a little more textile products that are about to be taken care of when it comes to waste really in the process behind the big problems. And you today have young people in Europe who are and always have to be activists, have to be strong, who don't wear anymore, don't buy new clothes anymore, but only wear clothes that were already worn. You guys have a lot of company today where when you buy new clothes, you wear the old ones they take care of, and you get them, so that's some stuff. What can we do? We can talk, we can act at the level of our family, ourselves, we can say, instead of nylon bags that will no longer be worn by those permanent, permanent bags, I will in an individual debate devote myself to spatial planning, which means in spatial planning. To go towards the end and to say, it's good to have a strategy, without it you can't do anything further and what I said and what I said at the beginning, this is a decent, correct document that was so made and done in the way other EU countries did. I've looked a little bit at how it's different, so I see that there, are guided experiences. This strategy points to a few things, first of all what we urgently need, which is a strategy for managing the marine environment and the coastal area of the sea. Croatia is one of the few countries that in its long tradition of spatial planning can be praised that we have always planned the sea. So, if anything in the sea can be and it's something where you said in your strategy, we'll just wait, it's something we need urgently. What we need, we're going to need an action plan that we all know we're not going to do, it's not going to work, so you need time, you need everything else, but a good action plan and you need a bunch of elements of action. You have to show really at the level you can, so it would be good if we didn't have more plastic spoons in the assembly regardless of the framework public procurement and these plastic things, and that's how we show, we take care of it. It would be good to keep an eye on our daily lives because it is possible. It would be good to take care of business, but what would be good, so I asked a question or replica to the Secretary of State to make sure we didn't lose some other laws and some other stories where we were absolutely showing up, so I purposely showed the Forest Act I'm sure there are still a few laws where we lost something that would be contrary to this strategy. The strategy usually gives quite a large part to spatial planning. The spatial planning is indeed one of the serious instruments of how to take care of climate change and how to adapt to it, bearing in mind that it is only 6% and which is good, which is the advantage of Croatia, is building undermining and it would be good to take care of it, but I will take care of it individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188101	We are now going to the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Domagoj Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188102	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Assembly. Dear Secretary of State Horvat with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs are one of today's biggest challenges that are precisely climate change affecting environmental change, affecting the economy and ultimately jeopardising the sustainable development of society. Together we are all witnessing more and more frequent weather disasters such as floods, such as droughts, storms, heat waves, more and more frequent fires, as well as rising temperatures of air, soil and water surfaces. Climate change does not know the limits, climate change is a global problem, and it is essential that we all become aware together that they happen. Given Croatia's position in the Mediterranean region, a high level of vulnerability is foreseen in the future. In cumulative terms, Croatia belongs to a group of 3 European countries with the largest share of damages from extreme weather and climate events compared to gross national product, and according to indicators, losses are increasing from year to year. Two branches of climate change are significantly affected by tourism and agriculture, and these two branches in Croatia account for 25% of our GDP. The alarm has definitely been activated and it's necessary to react strongly and quickly. Our society must become aware of the situation, become aware of the dangers of catastrophic consequences for the economy and the environment unless we start implementing adaptation measures in time. The cost of these adjustment measures should be seen as a reduction in the cost of the subsequent recovery of the damage to the future. And that is why I am pleased that we are turning strategically to this problem and the adjustment process, and in this way we will do the effects of climate change in the Republic of Croatia, determine the level of vulnerability and set priorities for our action. This long-term process implies taking on a set of activities aimed at reducing the vulnerability of natural systems and society to climate change, increasing capacity after impact, but also exploiting potential positive effects that may result from change. This is the first such strategy to adapt to the effects of climate change, and it has developed sectors that have shown the most vulnerable and most exposed to change based on current data and research. Of course, this strategy involves the activation of all stakeholders, from economic operators to authorities at all levels. This Strategy, based on research and monitoring, will create action plans with concrete measures to be adapted to the needs, real implementation opportunities and available capacities. The purpose of this Strategy is to bring together all institutional, political, social and other actors in a common platform that will result through a proactive approach, measures and activities as soon as possible by synergy, because each delay reduces efficiency, but also makes this fight significantly more expensive. Since science is increasingly active in researching climate change, the goal is to further encourage scientific research and better understanding of change, and to address a number of unknowns. As I have already mentioned this horizontal approach foresees an analysis and reaction in sectoral areas that are socio-economic for Croatia, but also nature, and the environment of great importance. This Strategy provides for eight sectoral areas, water resources, agriculture, forestry, fisheries, biodiversity, energy, tourism and health. The strategy, precisely in these sectors, should foresee the impacts and challenges that lead to the high vulnerability of the sector, as well as possible responses to the reduction of this high vulnerability. So when we talk about the water supply sector, we can expect a reduction in water supply in the water streams, as well as springs, a reduction in groundwater levels, a rise in sea level or water salination. In the agriculture sectors, the biggest damages expected from climate change are therefore expected to decrease the yield of current agricultural cultures by 3 to 8% by 2050, and we are also expected to have a greater water need, for irrigation due to droughts, a reduction in growth or the emergence of new diseases. The forestry sector will deal with the challenges of more frequent forest fires, reducing the productivity of some forest ecosystems, migration of harmful organisms, etc. Climate change will also affect the fisheries and aquaculture sector, pose additional pressure on the marine ecosystem, and we can expect migration of our species due to sea temperature, we can expect foreign species to rise, reduce primary production, increase shell deaths due to acidity increases, as well as many others. The biodiversity sector expects the challenges of reducing habitat areas, changes in the system of species communities, changes in the number and distribution of species, phenomena and spread of invasive foreign species, etc. Energy will be very likely to be faced with a reduction in the production of electricity in hydropower plants due to lower rainfall, an increase in electricity consumption with an increase in temperature, a reduction in heat production in thermal power plants, flood damages and the like. In the tourism sector, the main expected impacts are the reduction of tourism demand in summer times due to the rise in temperature and UV radiation, the reduction of activity in the area due to loss of biodiversity and ecosystems. We can expect high vulnerability in the health sector through increased mortality, changes in acute and non-infectious diseases as well as numerous others. What is important is that this Strategy offers measures for all these areas or sectors which intend to respond to a reduction in high vulnerability. All measures are defined on the principles of scientifically sound approach, complementarity of adaptation and reduction of climate change to precautionary and adaptive principles, as well as sustainability, with the necessary principle of active inclusion of all stakeholders as a personal prerequisite for successful implementation of climate change adaptation. This Strategy proposes a total of 83 measures selected in cooperation with sectoral experts, valued according to criteria and factors, and the impact on the reduction of vulnerability in each sector. The measures are divided into five groups based on the priorities of this Strategy in the frameworks where measures are to be implemented, namely ensuring sustainable regional and urban development, ensuring preconditions for the economic development of rural areas, coastal areas and islands, ensuring sustainable energy development, strengthening management capacities networked by monitoring and early warning systems, ensuring continuity of research activities. Implementation of measures and actions to implement climate change adaptation will be financed in the long term from several sources, both public and private, and through the state budget, and through European and structural funds, as well as the private sector. It is assumed that the amount of investment needed in the implementation of the Strategy amounting to nearly 27 billion kuna by 2040, but the exact amount needed will be defined after the preparation of the Action Plans. In view of the possibilities within the European Union funds, it is necessary to recognise in time what is necessary for Croatia and to plan it later through Action Plans and the absorption of the European Union's funds intended to adapt precisely to climate change, mainly because without the Plan, without the Strategy, it will not be possible. Action plans are also important for the development of concrete measures and activities for five years where we will have a presentation of measures, descriptions, implementation methods, implementation deadlines, implementation coordinators, as well as concrete sources of funding. After the measures have been put in place, it will be necessary to establish a system to monitor the implementation of the adjustment measures and activities, which, apart from the insight into the implementation of the measures, will give us an indication of possible improvements in the measures, as well as indicators which do not achieve the expected effects. Given the importance of this topic, given that climate change is our reality, and given the need for an express reaction from all stakeholders, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of the Climate Change Adjustment Strategy in the Republic of Croatia for the 2040s with a view to the 2070s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188103	Thank you. We're going to the IDS-PGS-LRI Club now, and our esteemed colleague Emil Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188104	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, In front of us, the proposal for a Climate Adjustment Strategy and reviewing this very important basic strategic document to which much should be attached in the future, it is not noticeable that the profession has been done, that it has tried to include a wider community, that the intention and purpose of making it are positive and that certain causes of the problem have been identified, as well as risks. Therefore, the IDS Club welcomes the adoption of the Climate Change Adjustment Strategy, as a document that highlights the importance of adaptation to climate change at a wider strategic level. This, we must all be aware that only adopting a strategy is only a first step, and that the actual adoption of action plans, which will include in practice implementing and concrete measures, will be a real test of maturity and wisdom for all of us together. We hope that we will not wait long for this because climate change is vital to our future and mere adoption and adoption of strategies will not help us much if measures are not implemented in practice. That is why we expect the government to start the process of production as soon as possible, we have heard that some drafts of action plans and proposals are the same, also referred to the parliamentary committees and to the debate in the Assembly. The introduction of the Strategy itself states that according to the European Environment Agency Report of the Republic of Croatia, it belongs to a group of 3 European countries with the largest cumulative share of damage from extreme weather and climate events compared to GDP. We all see that the climate has changed for years in a direction that is not encouraging. On the contrary, Croatia belonging to the Mediterranean region is particularly vulnerable. The wealth of water resources, their more efficient use with the aim of protecting and protecting the environment, must be our priority. Energy transition towards renewable energy sources, new alternatives to emissions of harmful gases in transport and industry and general energy efficiency must be life philosophy, as well as organic food production. And among the most vulnerable sectors through climate change is agriculture, which is what we had the opportunity to hear at the presentation of this proposal. Since it is directly dependent on weather conditions, this also raises the question of the food production process in the future. All of this will require considerable funds, but there are no alternatives for colleagues and colleagues. That must be the theme of all topics. We must note that the planned funds of 27 billion kuna over the next 20 years are not enough if we are to achieve the goal, it is certainly clear to everyone. That is why the Republic of Croatia, but also the EU, through targeted policies, will hopefully have to be much more strongly involved in financing all investments that contribute to mitigation and reduction of the consequences of climate change. From green energy, not to be too expensive and thus not available, to co-finance investments in modern systems of agricultural production, flood and drought protection systems and all investments in environmental protection systems. Climate change is not good, especially in the way and at which speeds occur. They certainly need to be tempered as much as possible, but they should continue living with them all that time. Some countries are more organized and organized than Croatia and are thinking about their future, and there are such countries, more north than we are, already considering the addition of their agricultural cultures to new ones, which have been recognised only to the northern borders of the Mediterranean. So they are already studying which Mediterranean cultures could in perspective succeed in their area, as they expect warmer average temperatures. We all know that food production is one of the most important goals of every organized society that cares about itself. Where are we on this and how much do we invest in science to do this in Croatia? We have determined scientists, some new young geniuses are coming, these are their themes, modern topics, let's give them support. We are aware that we cannot resolve this only by this Strategy, but here in the Assembly, in front of the IDS Club, we must take the opportunity to send this message and try to further sensitize the entire public about the real problem. Without including science and constant research, questioning and planning, we will remain far behind. Once again, we welcome that this problem has been approached strategically, that the profession has been included and that the document has been put on a wider public debate, including today's debate in the Assembly. In the interest of all of us, our children and those who will live only one day on this planet, it would be good for the parliamentary bodies, as well as for the session agenda itself, to come up with the strategic documents that follow, primarily, action plans that should further define individual objectives and measures, and nothing less, I would say even the most important, the implementation of these measures and control of the implementation itself. This can only be good and move us all to even more reflect on the subject. All of us who are in public political life must understand that climate change, environmentalism, green policy, digitalisation and in fact the overall sustainable development of the main political theme in the developed world and that we must finally leave the topic that the civilized world has absorbed in the last century because, in the future of Croatia, it is about the future of Europe, the world, the future of our planet and our civilization. It is about whether and when, with all the benefits that nature has made possible for us in these places, we will work, think, and live in the way we do today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188105	Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Mihael Zmajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188106	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Climate Change Adjustment Strategy in the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2040, with a view to 2070 in terms of form and content, a quality document has been developed which naturally satisfied the framework for the development of strategic documents. The projections of possible conditions are defined by 2040 and 2070 respectively, the objectives, measures, activities, the financial framework, the institutional framework, the system of indicators for measuring the effectiveness of the strategy, environmental protection measures, priority activities in the next period, all which one strategy should contain. And the adoption of this document without delay is important for the Republic of Croatia since, as the Proposer pointed out, it is important for the Republic of Croatia to be resilient in the future to the climate change that is present and will certainly have an increasing impact on the development of the Republic of Croatia and the whole world in the future. What is specifically cited as important is complementarity with the objectives of the European Green Agreement, which is undoubtedly one of the European Commission's most important programme priorities in this and certainly the next mandates. Given the key objective of the European Green Agreement, which is the climatic neutrality of the European continent by 2050. and the necessity of finding measures, activities and projects that will contribute to the mitigation and prevention of climate change, we are expressing the skepticism that the Government really understands what is important in implementing the European Green Plan, or that it is unable to put priorities on what is really important, and that is to adopt documents against the causes of climate change. This strategy deals with the issue of dealing with consequences, not the cause of climate change. Some other strategic documents that are key to the success of climate change reductions, although prepared several years ago, have not been passed and squatted in the ministry drawers. This primarily refers to the low-carbon development strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period up to 2030. with a view to 2050. as a basic document which provides the basis for policy decisions and guidelines that will have to be implemented by all sectors to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Thus, this strategy aimed at enabling a transition towards a low-carbon economy is crucial to address the causes of climate change in certain segments. It was pointed out that this strategy was actually ready for reference in the procedure as early as 2016. And by the logic of things, it would be more important to adopt than this strategy. And if the Government really cares about climate protection and the fight against climate change, and funding projects from the EU Funds, then it should have just adopted a low-carbon development strategy as a basic programming document for the 2021-2027 budget period. In addition, it should have also adopted the Strategy and the management of the marine environment and the coastal area of the Republic of Croatia as a key strategic document from the point of view of the protection of the marine environment and its ecological system, not to testify to the images that we had the opportunity to see from the example of Sakarun the other day. It is necessary to establish this strategy with a strategy and action plan for the protection of the nature of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017-2025, and with the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture and Fisheries, if it is already stated that one of the key sectors has been affected by climate change and is important for sustainable development. In addition to the strategic level, we believe that at the operational level of the government's predetermination to really deal with issues, it deals with these issues very declaratively. In fact, everyday practice denies the declared transition policy towards a low-carbon economy and relying on sustainable development. The government, for example, did not accept the proposal to amend and supplement the Sustainable Waste Management Act, whose purpose was to reduce the negative impact of plastic bags for carrying and plastics for single use on the environment, especially on water, the marine environment and human health, and to contribute to the establishment of so-called ‘registration’. The circular economy. Furthermore, on the proposal of some colleagues, more specifically, Mrsak-Taritash, that during the Croatian EU Council, spending of plastic glasses, spoons and similar items of single plastics should be abolished, and that there are framework agreements with suppliers, and that such a thing is not possible. The initiative to abolish the consumption of single-use plastics at HS level and to actually implement the National Action Plan for Green Public Procurement for the period 2015 to 2017. with a view to 2020, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was also only declarative and never resuscitated. In addition to the relationship to plastics, the entire waste management system, which contributes greatly and affects the climate, does not work. We don't have built centres, we have orders to shut down dumps, wastes, no clear instructions where with this waste, there's no built-up compost system, separate collection of biowaste, etc. It's been 5 years, 5 years. No tenders or public calls for the energy reconstruction of family homes have been opened, but instead the money is on the account of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which at the same time boasts austerity instead of returning that money to energy recovery projects, which is why it was established. Now that the competition is called in preparation, and when the applications start to apply for this competition, instead of renewing around 2,000 family houses each year as provided for in the programming documents, we will have the pressure actually in one year, the enormous pressure of the request, where the only thing that will happen is that Croatian producers of materials that can otherwise be participated in these works will not be able to respond and it will happen that the government is pumping money into the economy and that it actually encourages imports and expensive goods. So there's going to be market distortions and actually very small absorptions of this, these funds in the short term. Finally, Croatia has also recently received a European Commission's warning of failure to meet the obligation to report progress towards national goals, to increase energy efficiency. Although the Ministry of Environment and Energy Efficiency has recently explained that it will soon come up with data for 2018, it is not yet available and it is certain that they do not contribute to the advocacy of so-called low carbon development. From all of this, it is clear that this strategy is a very, very nicely addressed document, that the Government has so far shown no real commitment to the low carbon development objectives, thus reducing, and not just adapting to climate change, and that it would be expected, if it were really important for the Government to defend the strategy in the assembly, rather than the Secretary of State in all due respect and respect for its work and engagement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188107	Let's move on with the debates. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188108	Dear Mr. President, respected representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, colleagues and colleagues, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS with great interest received and introduced himself to the Proposal for a Strategy for adaptation to climate change in the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2040 with a view to 2070, because it is one of the vital issues for our country, for our neighbouring countries and for the whole world. I say for our country and for our neighbouring countries, I mean the countries of southern Europe and the Mediterranean that are particularly affected by the climate change process, or particularly affected by the risk, by increasing the risk of global warming. For this reason, it is vital that the Republic of Croatia and its government be among the most prominent actors to negotiate measures to be stopped, reduce the global warming process, or the overall climate change that contributes not only to global warming but also to all changes that follow climate change in our eco-system and the consequences that this causes for the global population, or for the human race. The reduction in temperature to less than 2 degrees C since the pre-industrial era, so reducing global temperature growth to less than 2% of the UN's targets as a strategic global goal, is something that we all need to be aware of. So we as a small country, but also every citizen of ours, every fellow citizen of ours, every man who lives on this planet. Because what we could hear 10 years ago from the UN representatives and their climate change agencies was shocking, drastic, much more shocking and drastic than we could hear in public. For this reason, it is extremely good to be aware and to join European efforts which unfortunately are not always followed at the global level of this kind of effort, I will later say something that is why and how it is coming, to join in to limit this dangerous trend that people feel on different parts of this planet, which can lead to UN estimates of moving populations that will be much more shocking than what we see today caused by wars or caused by different economic or political crises in the world, such as this crisis in Syria and Libya that is plowing the coasts, borders of the European continent and the areas of Europe and the EU, in particular. So the estimates are that about two hundred, two million people could be moved out of their habitats because of droughts due to drastic climate change. Management of the process is a major challenge for the world's policy and the world's population. And we welcome regardless of the shortcomings that can be observed, which some of our colleagues warn about when this strategy is on Wednesday, but what cannot be released from their minds when it comes to our local situation is that Croatia is not threatened by pollution from industry because we haven't had it in decades, Croatia is neither threatened by agriculture, because neither do we have it nor what we have is such that it poses a drastic threat to or threatens climate change, such as large farms with large livestock farming such as Brazil or Argentina. And speaking of Brazil, it's not as drastic as Brazil is that we cut down forests as they intersect or burn in Brazil, the Amazon forest, but we certainly destroy our forests and do nothing to restore them and replant them. There are colleagues who still make fun of the former order today, but then the forests were restored and the actions organized to make it seem so. I don't know who's doing it today, and if it's working as hard as it is, maybe I'm wrong to say that I'm ready to apologize from this place, but what we can see is that it's cutting down the forest and destroying the lungs because of the wild processing industry in forestry, and that it's actually taking a wave and that it's one of the serious threats, environmental threats to the environmental system, environmental potentials, and the potentials in the economic sense of that word because if this is going to seem wild, as it seems, for cheap money and without any control, it's destroying the social treasure. Some colleagues here talked about how we should stop selling land to foreigners. We can also think about the extent to which it is allowed as an EU member. But isn't it time for us all to actually start talking so loudly about the fact that, in the area of Bania, Kordun, the Western Slavonias stop destroying the woods just because there aren't any more people who kept them as they were yesterday. Let them be guarded by the state. Let them be guarded by the municipalities. Let's keep them all safe. What it represents for us, in my humble opinion, is the danger, apart from this, of deforestation, is actually, the gases resulting from an increase in the number of transport resources in the Republic of Croatia on fossil fuels, on gasoline and on oil. That is, when Croatia and its cities are largely a problem, much bigger than the system of heating with classical ways, as we notice in other cities, such as Sarajevo, such as Belgrade, is it? But it is a serious source of pollution on our local occasions. Wild urbanisation, uncontrollable urbanisation, especially on the coast, and the coast itself has been exposed to global risks and global processes. In large cities such as Zagreb, too. These things seem to me to be extremely important and necessary to speak in our, domestic and local context. Two more things I want to say. I'll do one thing first. The use of funds from the European envelope for the past financial period was modest in this area. This isn't criticism. This is just a matter of being aware of where we are. And this strategy will only make sense if it is followed by an even greater growth strategy, not only agreed projects, but implemented projects in the field of environmental protection. There's needs, there's opportunities and there's resources. Here, my colleague Zmajlović talked about dumps, talked about unsettled waste storage sites or those that are even under control, but in the summer months it simply became a source of serious pollution, not only in terms of smell, but in terms of chemical and other ingredients that come from there and pose a serious threat to health and drive people living from tourism or from some other kind of activity associated with it. For this reason, it should also be one of the measures when it comes to this Strategy. Our ability to participate in the global process by using funds that, not only of the EU, but also of the world, will have to be made available in order to stop the process of climate change growth and overall negative... Third thing I want to say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't often fight here whether we're right, whether we're left, whether we're HDZ, whether we're SDP, whether we're SDSS or if we're a 4th party, and actually, we don't see and see what the reasons they're contributing to this are. Our petty little nationalisms compared to global capitalist savagery, on one side with enormous wealth and the increase of multi-billionaires in the world that we could read has recently increased by 2 hundreds. And on the other hand, the race continues. No matter what it means for our eco system. No matter how much it means to our eco sphere. No matter what it means for climate change. If China will, then America will, if America will, then China will. If India will, then someone else will. So, until this order starts to seriously raise the question as a system that destroys the eco system of our planet, our eco system, and I'm talking about an extreme capitalist order that has been at work for the last 30, 40 years, which looks at the exclusive profit of which, on the one hand, destroys the ecological system, and on the other hand, poverty poverty poverty is as important as environmental disturbances. Their cause is the same. Uncontrollable wild capitalism that doesn't ask for the price of wealth and profit growth. Not growth in social progress, but growth in profit. And the last thing I'm saying is, it wouldn't be all black. We really need a global governance mechanism for this crisis. And this means that global institutions must strengthen and that we as a member of the EU and the EU must strengthen global institutions such as the UN. Contrary to those who seek to weaken it. Contrary to those who women give these global mechanisms globally, they can be as weak as they want countries, like ours, to be weaker inside themselves, because it will depend on whether strategies like this, whether the UN Strategy, whether the signature in Paris, which has been severed by hardship, will bring results or not. So it seems to me that our diplomacy, our government, all of us here, especially those who have a sensitivity to this topic and this consciousness, we should advocate this kind of global order that will be trained to manage these crises because these crises can lead the world to the door of conflict, not just regional, not more global, but conflicts that can be much worse than those we thought were the worst, as was the First and Second World War in our human history on the ground of Europe. The SDSS representative club will support this strategy in addition to these remarks that we had the need to highlight, especially when it is intervening our country, which means to commit itself to serious sustainable agriculture, to new industries that will not pollute, to commit to controlling the import of cars where very often our people due to lack of funds importing second-hand cars, very often the process of urbanisation flows so that it does not take care at all what it means for the environmental system and at the same time by managing the green wealth of this country must be responsible both under control and restrictively wherever it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188109	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that independent list of young people on behalf of whom the respected representative Ante Pranic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188110	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We as a club of independent youth lists will support the given strategy which is the subject of today's debate, but we will also point out that many other strategies have been adopted in this high home, from the Public Administration Development Strategy, from various energy strategies that have not been implemented later. First of all, we need to ask ourselves, in particular, how do we treat the environment and what do we leave for future generations? We know that the increase in greenhouse gas concentrations is 40% higher, compared to the advanced industrial period, we know that the increase in average global temperature by 1 degree Celsius, and we also know that in certain studies that global temperature growth by 2 degrees Celsius would be globally 69 billion dollars per year, 69 billion dollars per year. And when we talk about climate change, we have to go first of all. I am the head of the unit of the same local self-government where we banned the use of plastic packaging in daily, daily work, where we presented the concept of Solar City complete water spray on solar drive, where we co-finance from our own resources major projects to introduce photovoltaic panels to family houses. How do we treat the environment, the coastal belt? See examples of the spatial plans of the city of Makarska and the city of Opatija, see the example of the concreteisation of the coast. So we can't figure out where we are and that someone has to say a lot if we want to develop some sustainable systems. See where we are by percentages and by waste management systems? We are at the European bottom, we face new challenges that we cannot meet, answer, and the citizens will pay neatly through the penalty. Where are we on fossil fuels? We are talking about energy transition here, we are talking about the fight to reduce climate change in renewable energy sources, and at the same time in the spatial plans of units of regional self-government, county, specifically my Split-Dalmatia County, there is a spatial plan where the proposal includes the new 11 fields for the exploitation of the Adriatic, natural gas and oil. I have a feeling that we here in a high home are talking about a strategic document, I guess that, to be guided by the attitudes of other European countries, and basically, in everyday life, we're doing everything the opposite, all the opposite. I highlighted the example of coastal concreteisation, the adoption of spatial plans, urban plans where the last green areas in certain municipalities and certain cities disappear because of construction mafias, I highlighted an example of where regional self-government, county, in their spatial plans, and say to the county level that these are requirements with higher levels, giving proposals for spatial plans that contain further exploitation in terms of fossil fuels. I won't talk much about climate change, and enough is given by 500 scientists with one appeal to the government, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and HS, how much the government is currently concerned about this is one information presented to the public if it is true that within 30 days no one could receive representatives of 500 scientists who are adequately working, working life on these topics, on this issue. I'll just use this debate to read 11 requests from a group of 500 scientists, and it's up to you gentlemen from the ministry and the government to finally receive them, to finally talk to people. Emergency declaration of climate emergency at the level of the Republic of Croatia as a model of already made and similar decisions at EU level, as well as a number of other countries. Secondly, the involvement of scientists of all profiles and disciplines carrying out reviewed scientific research on climate change and their implementation in the climate crisis policy process. Thirdly, the development and implementation of policies aimed at building socio-economic models that are sustainable compared to the existing ones. Fourthly, work on systematic and active awareness-raising of the general public at all levels on climate crisis on all its complexity, including the development of ambitious educational topics in the area of sustainable development implemented in school curricula. I'll leave myself only to the new one 4 point school curricula, we've had here neatly for a year in public various conflicts with various sides regarding school curricula whether anyone mentioned this thesis of implementing the need for climate crises in school curricula, no, or at least I don't remember. Fifthly, the urgent implementation of the Transition System towards Sustainable Energy with the ultimate objective of the complete suspension of the fossil fuel exploitation project, including the need to retrain workers. Recognition and promotion of low-carbon professions and lifestyles and accompanying infrastructures. The identification of particularly vulnerable groups in society and the work to minimise their vulnerability as well as the damage already suffered. Encouraging local production, distribution and trade, which does not include the transport of locally available goods from remote countries. Encouraging sustainable low-carbon transport solutions including the development of accompanying infrastructure. Interpretation of sustainable technological solutions in all aspects of life based on life cycle analysis. Intensive support for ambitious scientific research aimed at climate crisis responses. This is 11 appeals, 11 points in the appeal of 500 scientists addressed to the government, the resolution ministry and the assembly. I say again in public space, there are certain rumors that no one by the government has received these scientists. Now you're nodding that, thank you, it's time for these scientists to finally get a place to talk about this, and for us politicians to listen and ask ourselves what kind of climate, what kind of environment we leave for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188111	Thank you for the next Club of Representatives is that of HSU, SNAGE and Independent Representatives and New Politics on behalf of whom the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188112	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, to once again highlight the name of this document is therefore a strategy for adapting to climate change. Why, why is this about a climate change adaptation strategy rather than an impact strategy on climate change or the fight against impacts to increase climate change, and in the document itself, it is mostly explained that this is a sectoral, horizontal strategy with a broad sectoral approach, and that certain strategies have been adopted in certain sectors dealing with the very impact on climate change. This is one of the logical reasons why this is called climate change adaptation strategy, but another more important reason why it is so simple is the fact that the Republic of Croatia is a small country and that unfortunately very little can affect climate change, and on the other hand these climate change can already have a major impact on it given its geostrategic position in relation to agricultural land and tourism as a major or important branch of economic development of the Republic of Croatia. If we look at the whole world and countries that are the biggest polluters, the biggest causes of climate change, then, above all, China as the leading country, there is primarily the main cause of energy, the energy that was needed by such a rapidly growing economy. Well then, many countries, it's no wonder that many countries in China have gone.../incomprehensible/... their production plants because they were themselves legal frameworks much lighter, so it wasn't a problem to get energy from fossil fuels, so primarily from coal because when the economy is developing so fast, then you don't wonder where the energy came from, energy is simply needed to track it. And then, of course, there's the industry, the technology that was acceptable to them again for economic reasons, that's what Pupovac's colleague was talking about, in fact, conditionally speaking to the greed of some people how to get to the bigger profit and, of course, the third place is agriculture in China, which is actually a less polluter in these frameworks. U.S. energy first and agriculture. The EU stands third in all 28 for now, of course, the UK has come out, but at a time when it measured the same energy from agriculture. India, there's also energy and agriculture everywhere, India, Russia, Japan. In Japan the most energy, but then we get to Brazil where agriculture is actually with half of the greenhouse gas mission involved in pollution, global pollution. What is still to be noted is that, let's say, Australia participates with 1% in global pollution, although there are only 23 million and the biggest cause is agriculture and, of course, the United States still needs to indicate that they have the highest rate of greenhouse gases compared to the population. Eight times larger than, say, India, which has 1.3 billion inhabitants. Why is all this important, and why should this be mentioned? So it's from this context that the Republic of Croatia has been working with all its efforts, and my colleague Pupovac has been a little ironic, so he said we don't even have any more polluting industries, and the Republic of Croatia, with all its efforts, can't have much impact on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and, in fact, on the overall pollution of eco-systems around the world. So, the Republic of Croatia is there with its size limited, but what it is, which is what the strategy warns that these climate change will affect the Republic of Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia is the biggest traffic polluter and in that part we can say that already the growing problem is when we talk about poverty, the growing fleet in the Republic of Croatia, because simply citizens cannot buy newer, newer, newer cars. And this strategy would now, although, of course, we didn't understand each other, Mr. Horvat's State Secretary answered my line that money wasn't the most important thing, it's important where we use it, but still this strategy could be called this 12-5-5-5, 12 and a half billion for agriculture, 5 billion for water resources, and 5.5 billion for forestry. They're the biggest backbone of this, this strategic document. Agriculture is certainly exposed to climate change if we look at dry periods, in agriculture, if we observe, something in the introduction and the secretary of state itself stressed the vegetation periods, changes in actually agricultural production, everything that follows, and also part of now agricultural production that goes to energy, to, therefore, bioenergys, so called silencing, all of this affects agriculture in the future in which we plan to actually have agriculture, ensure that it is sustainable, and on the other hand, to be competitive, because this with competitiveness is, in fact, the biggest, biggest challenge and therefore these 12 and a half billion when seen in this period of 20 years, it seems like big money, however it is not big money, because here in the explanation of the Strategy says that how much it went to the damage in agriculture, it is not negligible, even mentioned that half of these so-called direct payments or incentives paid at the same time. So, that money is not crazy at all, it will not be spent in vain, 12 and a half billion kuna, and it is unusually important for agriculture to remain sustainable and competitive. It is the same thing with forestry, big debates are being held in Croatia as to whether the forests are being cut down, people see, watch out for people, and ask, with the right question, Croatian forests are dying public and talk about regular, regular cutting, as is actually the maintenance of the forest, and that constant reforestation is being done, but people notice that always trucks pass, that they are being cut down. I think that Croatia's forests have been a little bit more active lately with information that they give to citizenship, I see it through some videos, and through internet announcements, but I think it should be more, more of this communication for people to know, and this is mostly about most of the private forests coming back to the owners, and then they say from the Croatian forests that mainly, these problems arise because private forests are cut more than they do to the Croatian forests that run the forests owned by the Republic of Croatia. So, the water economy, forestry and agriculture, these are three key segments to meet these challenges. As far as tourism is concerned, I think there's a slight circumstance as warm a day as possible, in fact, it's actually going to be good for tourism. What is not good on the side of energy is that in these warm days more energy is being spent on cooling space, but there should certainly be more, more attention or direction to solar, solar, solar energy. So, this strategy, like all strategies, is a good document which, but which is just the starting point for taking measures, because we see that the Strategy is talking in the rule that it is about unstructured measures, so most of these measures are not structural, so it's not talking here or it's less about how much agricultural surfaces should be irritable, how this irrigation should be done, how do we get rid of our water streams, is it wise that we drive water pumps to the Papuk, or would it be more logical to bring down water from the Papuk from... According to Drava over agricultural areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are all questions that will need to be answered, and this Strategy can serve as a basis. The most dangerous thing will be if this strategy ends up like a lot of people in the drawer to be one of the documents that we've made, which we've made solidly, and it's ultimately not being treated. Finally, I can conclude that this Strategy should be supported, but it should certainly be translated into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188113	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that of HSS and Democrats, in the name of which the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188114	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The strategy's proposal is currently ahead of us and the Croatian Peasant Party Club and the Democrats will accept such a proposal from the Strategy, because we believe that the strategy we bring is better than any one we have ever made. As far as the Strategy itself means form and content, the profession has done its job and I have no doubts about our experts, and our science, although many unfortunately leave Croatia because they have poor working conditions here and somewhere in Europe or America, if we keep them, we can contribute even more to solving the problems we have in Croatia. But like any Strategy, this Strategy too threatens to end in drawers and that our policy does not valorise at all what experts have written in this Strategy and that they wanted to tell us the strategy in which the Republic of Croatia should ic on climate change. Unfortunately, we do not have a political decision in which direction we are going, what we need to plan and what we are going to tell the profession in which direction we are going to go to do it, but we are doing this strategy precisely because the strategies are working around us, what there is a Green Deal in Europe that we are talking about and now that we are not behind, we are going to make a strategy that policy is probably not going to read again, let alone value. Unfortunately, politics is the one that decides everything in the Republic. Politics usually does not recognise the profession, politics does not usually recognise the exact data that the profession represents, politics is the one that deals in the Republic of Croatia only with its own interests and simply at this point it does not even care what happens to climate change in the Republic of Croatia i.e. in the world. We are today cutting down forests in the Republic of Croatia more than ever, witnessing the disappearance of entire forests, and we know very well that. It seems that politics doesn't know, and the profession knows, what forests mean for an eco-system of a particular region, a particular state, what forests mean for a planet Earth. We cut these forests just to achieve incomes, not even those legal revenues, but those illegal ones, and then we hijack agricultural land to increase the forest economic base, to get the basis for Croatia's forests to get the basis for cutting it down as much as possible. What happens to that mass, here on social networks, you have one example of a truck that's turned over, which should be driving a blade, and in fact it's driving hidden logs without a stamp. So, the Mafia is doing its job, giving it formal or informal, whatever it is, for our own interests, we're destroying a resource that reduces the impact of climate change. Agriculture is one of the sectors that will suffer the most climate change that is evident, agriculture is suffering this already today, but unfortunately there is no such climate change we did not know how to organise agricultural production, so in all sectors we have failed, we do not produce 40% of Croatian food needs for agriculture even though we have very good resources. Almost all of the counties have made irrigation plans, on one of these, and I myself worked while I was head of agriculture in the county where we also made spatial plans for micro-accumulation sites on the streams, and the flood streams will grow more and more during these climate changes that are becoming more and more pronounced. To this day, however, nothing has been raised on this issue. We're not even working on irrigation today, we're not working on spreading the irrigation net, I can say it as a agricultural producer because I don't have a problem developing a irrigation system, but I'm having a water supply problem, and we haven't solved that water supply while we have a lot of water flowing through us and going somewhere else. The changes that will take place will put the Republic of Croatia into countries that will become more and more dependent on import food, increasingly dependent on unquality food, and more and more of our farmers will simply leave their estates and go somewhere else because unfortunately, on a quality country, no one wants to be hungry. As I also have a piece of plastic production, today no one wants to provide you with a plastic from the insurance houses, they will from the fire, but not from the wind and from the storm. So when you go into that kind of production with these risks that are getting bigger today, you just realize that it's better not to deal with it. We are aware of the floods that have been happening to us in recent years just for extreme weather opportunities, for a large amount of rainfall in the short term. We are witnessing the flood defense system that we planned wrongly because we have squeezed the rivers, we have not allowed the water to spread, and now that a large amount of water simply comes to us, our dikes or are not enough or cannot resist that kind of pressure. What will happen during these climate changes with human health will be a great pressure on the Croatian health system, which is still under way today. Every day we witness problems when we go to ask for some medical attention, about the lack of doctors, about ordering, so come that day, so the doctor is gone because they had to go somewhere else, and climate change is far faster than adapting the human organism to these changes. The population will find it difficult to adapt, and hence the people of later years, who will still have to work in their jobs, will be increasingly difficult to deal with work tasks that will be put ahead of them due to extreme climate change, but also due to the extreme climate conditions in which they will work. Unfortunately, Croatia has very little to contribute to global warming and global climate change, but it still feels like it contributes as well as others. Those biggest contaminants. But that doesn't mean that we can't reduce that impact yet, that personally by giving up some little things that we can give up a few times not to start a car, not to use bags, not to waste water, there are a million little things that won't affect our standard of living, and they can help reduce these changes. So as well as as state, we can contribute to policies that we should bring here and here in this high house, but I don't bring them, because we think that it's happening somewhere else in some other parts of the world and that we're separated from it, that it's none of our business. However, we do, and therefore I, as the value of this strategy, see the highest value in the data given in the strategy that the profession has drawn up, and will be used in future in professional circles as some basic data for further planning, discussion or anything related to climate change. It's certainly good that we started talking about it, I think we're talking too little, that we're talking about it, that we need to be more busy about it because it concerns all of us. The more we are going to be late, and the more we are late to adapt to inevitable climate change, the more it will cost us adjustments, and the losses we will suffer will be bigger and bigger every day, and unfortunately, I don't think that this strategy will encourage those who decide how it should be applied and whether it should be implemented at all. It has been adopted, will be used as makeup and Croatia has adopted a strategy, and the profession will be forgotten very soon after a Friday vote here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188115	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to discuss the respected representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188116	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear secretaries with their associates, the proposal for a climate change adaptation strategy for the 2040 period, with a view to 2070, says that this government still has a vision, I also said in the replica that you are visionaries, but the fact that from this vision that we have in reality about climate change and what the government is doing, we could now list, and I will also list a few things. In fact, this vision has nothing to do with reality with what is being done to prevent climate change or means that this one to reduce the damage from climate change, that in the Republic of Croatia about the important things that you all mentioned are in this strategy and that are written in the strategy, because the fact that Croatia is famous for the most written strategies and the most money is spent in strategies that so much money is invested in protecting the environment and preventing climate change and this reduction of climate change would certainly be talking about much better agriculture, much better water protection, much better environmental protection and all of what we have in the area of Croatia, which is wealth. Climate change means we currently see that, the whole world is talking about it and the EU which now holds Croatia's presidency is one of the key things, but other than the vision you wrote on this paper when I look at it, only when we look at water protection that I was talking about, drinking water, it is mentioned in the strategy that there will be a reduction in the importance of water resources both on sources and we, as a source of drinking water, would have to protect it, but in Croatia we do not protect drinking water, we waste management centres such as. in Lečevica we work in a region where caves are proven to be spielologists, where Jadro is connected, so today we have this problem in Split that we don't have water in every rain that a few days people have to literally spend huge money to buy, organize a tank city to supply their citizens with water and these damages are immeasurable. So if we're now planning waste management centres like Mariščina in Lečevica which is literally there is so we have sources that are connected by this submarine, this underwater are connected with, and the pits connect with the Adriatic, with the Žrnovnica, so we have so that's one form. We have another form where we have, let's say Zrmanja example, where we have these pools, where we have these lagoons, where Zrmanja and Krka, where there are harmful oil fluids, fats that go directly into the river, the stream where the entire Sibenik-Knin or Zadar County feeds, and literally comes to Krka National Park, but it's not a problem obviously to governments because this water obviously nobody, I think national park enters, the National Park of Krka which we know what it means, we know what the natural environment of the Zrmanja River means, we know what that water you call in, drinking water and we're like a club and we're looking for, i.e. Soon we'll hand it over in procedure and collect signatures to protect the water. that water is a fundamental human right i.e. the drinking water, and the harmful projects that have been major damages in history where environmental funds instead of money spent in hundreds of millions, but it's put in someone's pocket, I don't know during the Youth or everyone else's, instead of investing to resuscitate those lagoons to get that mule in Zrmanja or lagoons at the TVIK factory in Knin, absolutely nothing is going on that liquid where various harmful oils are coming into the water. So, we have a problem now that we're not protecting our waters. The harmful projects, just a few days ago, we saw that, in the hip, the human hand damages, that in the pits that are connected to the river Cetina's source in Podinar, on Vrdov and others, we saw that this is where the garbage is found in these pits, and we have these old mines that have been exploited, and we have, but they had to get rid of it by law, the one who did the exploitation of the sea was rescheduled, however, the miners are not rescheduled because we don't have dumps for construction material, for example, in the Split-Dalmatia County. Today we have a problem, here I have seen Mayor Trill take on the territory of his city i.e. The villages of Koshuta in Kali puts down material from all over the region of Dalmatia, which is primarily damage to the people who oppose it, and I will also talk about it at the stop, which we must resuscitate. Also in my village was the mining of the Slana Stine River, which along with the tributaries of the Cetina River, which was essentially intended in 2007 already to put waste industrially from the Long War, something similar to waste from Biljana, I had to protest with people. Fortunately, we were able to prevent this crime of waste disposal along the rivers. We have these wounds that are along our rivers of pearls, our drinking waters and we simply have to bring into the Constitution what Slovenia has brought, and Slovenia simply said to preserve in these climate changes, they are, they have put the waters of drinking in the Constitution and from that law they are, from the Constitutional Law... I will propose it together with my club and representatives who have already signed to go into these constitutional changes, because that is the key to survival in these areas is one significant resource, especially now that it is commercialised, when multinational companies want a pasture over the waters. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for energy, you mentioned energy, the Republic of Croatia produces 0.34% of energy, solar energy, while Europe 0.5%, while Europe 5% of the EU, even more of us Finnish products that have half a night, half a day, are not known when the day is, when the night is, but with our Dalmatia, and with microsolars give more effects than in Germany in our Zagora, an example of 40% more energy comes from these solar plants. So we have an alternative to the hydroenergy that you mentioned that the effects of water reduction will be on hydroenergy. I think that those areas where I come from, my river Cetina gives 40%, the river where I come from 40% of the Republic's hydropower, which is why Nan didn't return anything, we have absolutely no projects other than what we've become an exploitation field. We have an example of Biljana Donji where waste has been delayed with the very sources, wells, where people, the population live in the area, although very few in the area, and we know what they were, the Straight Cotari were one ideal climate for production and fruit and vegetables, unfortunately today we have also the disposal of industrial waste and the Republic, even the European Court of Justice after suing the European Commission, the Court of Justice, the European Court of Justice and this solution that this is waste, that the triba of this, that dangerous waste is an industrial waste and that, this black hill, if you went down to Dalmatia, according to Zadar, Split or Sibenik you see on the live side, is a disaster, people through grandchildren are trying to fight. For the time being, the European Court of Justice has reached a conclusion that it is, that the Republic of Croatia is to blame for the delay, and it is obvious that it will have to pay for the damage even though some solutions are now in place. As far as agriculture is concerned, unfortunately you are predicting a reduction in agricultural contributions from 4% to 8%. Unfortunately, Croatian agriculture is in ruins, 780,000 square kilometers we have unprocessed preserved organic agricultural land, about which I gave yesterday and a law that the foreigners of 1.7 will be able to buy, along with what the Government has asked for 3.g. moratorium does not mean anything if Croatian citizens, natural and legal persons cannot buy agricultural land in Hungary, why should we not, save their land. Here we can talk, this is wide, I mean this is a short time, I'm sorry what the biggest vermin have to do with funds, environmental damage are environmental funds, the Ministry of the Environment, we have also harmful projects that have been pushed onto our largest drinking water pools such as the Peruča thermoelectric plant on Lake Peruca i.e. on the river Cetina. I think we're trying to protect, mostly drinking water, direct energy where we have greater potential, that's the sun, unfortunately you haven't accepted it yet, but I expect we'll be in the future. it's not too late. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188117	The next individual debate will be the respected representatives of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188118	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased that there is a climate change adaptation strategy in the debate. I'm glad for the reason that I've always found it extraordinary, it's hard for me to look no matter, I as an opposition representative could say so, you see you're not able to do it either, but I just don't think it's a good thing that the Republic of Croatia was in the company of two other countries that didn't have that strategy. Without that strategy, you can't take any steps and you can't do anything. I remember a lot of things, remember how we've been dealing with all the damage that a man's done in his environment, so we've been going through different processes. We've passed nature's return. Somewhere out there, last century was a trend, it was called natural, because we couldn't do it differently on Croatian translation, so I was in Bavaria where Bavaria was behind II. Holy shit. The war when Germany went to recover has developed agriculture. On all areas where agriculture could take place. And then after about 30 years they realized that they had a big impact and that everything together wasn't good and then they had one action that, that was, it wasn't action, it was politics. That farmers don't process ores, and they're going to get compensation from the state like they have crops, like they've got crops coming back and they're coming back from some sort of forest or some kind of tiny pond, and then we're there listening to frogs. Because they were very happy because the frogs came back to those bars, I said, so maybe we in Croatia are doing nothing more than doing nothing together with Bavaria, and then on average we have nature, they have industry, but no, it's not like that. Then remember a few years ago, even recently it was a topic of sustainable development. So sustainable development, no one started any discussion, no discussion without sustainable development. It's climate change now. Climate change is a fact. The climate is not static discipline. Climate change is a fact, man has done a lot of damage with his actions, and now and through this Strategy, and when you look at other strategies, you have 3 things to do. So the first thing is to reduce vulnerability and nature, but also society as a whole, and that's a great education that we have to work on all of us. So we have to talk, we have to talk, I don't know, actors, they have to talk, we have to have on TV at all to develop consciousness. For example, when it comes to waste, kindergarten kids have the best development since kindergarten kids are already detaching waste and everything else, but then everything they do neatly happens to put aunts in the same basket. So that's something that education is extremely important to people to understand what we're talking about and a little change for you to separate plastics from, to use some things, to, I don't know, cut up old shirts and use in dust wipers. It looks stupid, but it's already one serious shift made. The other is the ability to recover. Perhaps something has the ability to recover and has the ability in some other elements and other ways and the 3rd thing, we need to see what are the positive effects, or adapt to the new state. We can't go back to the way things were, and we won't go back to the way things were, but we have to adapt to the new state. And it's no wonder that this strategy is up to 2040 with a 2070 view, so it has to work and we have to be ready for it all together. My favorite topic is also something that I think always, something that I think is, I'm not that politician or parliamentary representative of general practice that I think I understand about everything and I'm very careful about some things. But in spatial planning, I understand, and I absolutely think that's it, that's what I've been trained to do and what I've been doing most of my working life. There should be change in spatial planning. The spatial planning is an interdisciplinary process in which we really need to use all the experience we have. It can't happen at all anymore that we have spatial plans that don't take care of climate change. That's inadmissible. In spatial plans, we need to introduce two new categories that we have completely forgotten so far, which is green infrastructure and blue infrastructure. What am I talking about? What's green infrastructure? Those aren't poles painted green. Green infrastructure, to take care of parks in spatial plans, we take care of small green islands where children's playgrounds are, we make sure that when it comes to the forest, when it comes to some settlement or part of it, when the forest starts to fall into urban tissue and let it move on. What's a blue infrastructure? So what we've been doing in cities or anywhere else, any stream, any stream, anything, we've either concreteized it and made it a canal, and then it's become a canal that smells, and then we'd be ingested up there, and we'd end up pouring it down. Nature brings it back. I'll give you one example, that's probably what most of you have forgotten. In Zagreb he went behind the HEP building to work on a new building and it was envisaged by a spatial plan, but when he started digging, then there was protection of the building pit, all the luck nobody got hurt, it was, there were high ground water and it all collapsed together and the project gave up. So the spatial plan was a possible building. A local and construction permit has been obtained. But what did nature do? Where you have high groundwater, you have it, you have it, where all the streams are concrete, all the rapids, the water comes somewhere, and it's very simple. You have a laurel with water, when you put on a lot of cubes, the water will rise, that's what happened. The water had to go out somewhere, went out into that building pit and showed what she was thinking. So in the system, regardless of whether it's urban areas that, as we're talking about all the time, we have 6% of the construction area at this point, 5.7, 5.8 built, but it needs to be very careful and not just buildings to look at. You should also watch when you build or build roads, when you build or railways, you can create a disturbance in nature and nature will bring it back. Nature will return it to its rinks, return it to different things. What am I saying? I mean, there are two things we need to take care of. The laws when we pass and there is the task of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, you get these laws of consent. Look at those provisions that are contrary to this Strategy, we have in laws today, I have listed the Law on Forests, we have in the laws provisions that are already contrary to this Strategy. So it can be done, it doesn't grieve a lot of money, not a lot of engagements can be done. And another thing, to develop awareness that climate change is the fact that spatial plans need to take care of it. Where floods have been gone for years, no more construction areas, let them normally blue, it is better to have a normal blue area than to have a building area where you will be submerged continuously, immersed objects or submerged infrastructure that you will not be able to go to. When it comes to the development of cities, I cannot mention the GUP of the City of Zagreb, I do not know at all what polite word to use for it. Climate change is a fact. The pollution of cities is a fact. All the cities from their center are moving traffic to actually make life easier. In the town of Zagreb, the city center of Jelačić pays you two tram stations, it is half a km in a circle around your center is the city center that is something that is obvious in 20 minutes on foot and compared to all this City of Zagreb 2020 decides in the city center of Zagreb through GUP to work public garages. These cars in those public garages won't come by helicopter, they'll somehow come, they'll be standing there, we'll have CO2, so I can't use it at all, I don't have a strong enough word for insanity to do so in the space plan of the 21st century 2020. In one of the GUPs of the City of Zagreb, I would expect it to be conditions for buildings to be planned so that they get as much solar energy as possible, to use the wind, these are the steps that were made, not this. So the bottom line is that we have this strategy, I'm glad it does, I'd like to have action plans for it. And I wish the minister were here with us today. [[- Intruder. Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188119	We've got more replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188120	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, colleagues of Anka Dark Taritash, you've done a lot of good in your address, and what's the strongest force on our planet is nature, like you said, it's all coming back and the greatest power is the power of nature. As you said, climate change is a dynamic phenomenon on this planet, unfortunately in Croatia is a current policy static phenomenon and simply does not respond to this dynamic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188121	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188122	So what we need to emphasize, and that is that this strategy is just the first step. Without that strategy, there is no second, third or fourth step. What really needs a concerned minister in charge of this resort is supposed to be here today. He should have been the one who presented the strategy, he should have been the one if he really thinks so and if he really thinks so, and if he thinks it's a form then he decided to be in Brussels there to take a picture with Greta Tunberg who they are, at this point he's really an indicator of a young person or she's one girl who talks about climate change, but what, if it really was the idea of all the measures that they are, look at the measures that are here that are indicators. So that's where the strategist said, we're giving indicators that we recognize at this point. It seems to me that it will change very quickly because it will need some other indicators, but the minister has decided on something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188123	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative of Zmajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188124	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak Taritash, I agree with you that you should not only be criticized because really making this document should be commended, it is a good strategy I think it directs Croatia where it should go. But what is, why are we being skeptical that we need to be criticised because the ministry and the government are saying one thing and doing the other. I'm going to give you a few examples. We are talking about the need to prevent climate change, etc., and the Government, by its rules, stimulates the import of used vehicles by tax policy and thereby increases emissions in transport. We need two years of public calls for premiums, so for renewable energy sources, solar power plants, that doesn't exist. So for two years, the Ministry has been working on a rule that hasn't been out yet. So we're talking one thing, and the government's doing another. That is why it is necessary to criticise and appeal that we are really moving, not just producing strategic documents that will eventually end up in a drawer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188125	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188126	Thank you very much. So, I think we're world champions in the production of documents we don't apply. We love to have laws, we like to have regulations, then we like to have regulations, then we like to have different strategies at the level of the state, of the county, of the municipalities, of the cities, of mine I don't know how to apply them. I have to remind you of something else that we still had in 2015 was the obligation of green public procurement. Where is it? It ended up in some drawer in historical layers. So we can't say that this strategy is bad because it's a correct document, it's a good document, we need it, but it's the history of life teacher. What I know for sure at this point that even the action plans by the end of the year won't be, I don't have to be very smart because we know that we're going to have choices and everything else. We won't even have it in 2021, other countries will take a step forward and then we'll wonder why we're there 26 or 27.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188127	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188128	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mrak Taritas, in your debate, you mentioned one challenge that will certainly be significantly linked to climate change, and this is planning spatially in large cities, i.e. since climate change has a major impact on industry, but also on the quality of life of our citizens, it is very important that the spatial plans of large cities, for example Zagreb, begin to adapt to these strategies and the situation that will take place for the next 30, 40 years. Because if we have illogicalities as you yourself said in your debate that are not going in favour of reducing pollution in the City of Zagreb but on the contrary, then it is clear that local authorities are not taking care of it and it is clear that we will need to talk more and more about these problems at the level of units of local self-government specifically in this case in the City of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188129	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188130	Thank you very much. So, responsibility is in the state, responsibility is in the county, responsibility is in the cities. Everyone needs to take care of their own business to really do the job as it belongs. I didn't happen to mention the GUP of the City of Zagreb. For the simple reason when you say so who will be smart today, redeploying the green area in the building area, take care of climate change, then the answer in the City of Zagreb is not the state's strategy. Who needs a strategy to plan wisely in a document of spatial order. Do you need a strategy for someone to tell you so don't re-route the green area into a chest so don't build a building there because it was already one that showed it couldn't be. You don't need any strategy, you need brains, but this strategy will make it easier to call them and say don't do the job right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188131	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188132	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's colleague Mrak Taritas I'm glad you mentioned in your discussion spatial planning and said of course you're at home according to your profession, here I come from Krapinsk-Zagorian County and the main problem, in fact, we feel the most climate change is probably the rink. It's actually a topic that I want to link to this spatial planning, of course, that they didn't just appear because of the spatial planning that there are several other factors that have affected it since we've built infrastructure in some areas, especially the hilly ones where it's not like there were fewer people living in these bulging areas today, but I also know some examples that housing in areas where they've never been in the past. So, what we need is a strong state because a strong state means quality spatial planning, means good employees in construction offices, and then we wouldn't have such situations happening because we have to prevent something before it happens because then it costs a lot more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188133	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188134	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, what you said is a fact. So something makes nature by itself, but much greater damage in nature makes man by his actions. I have to say that really, when it comes to housing, they've gone to places where they shouldn't have, even though when it comes to rinks, the rinks are the biggest damage that's done the infrastructure, and that's the one that's underground, so different pipelines, but it really should be, you need to have clear defensive lines. I'll connect here to the Law on Legalization of Buildings. When, when we went really seriously with that law and we had some idea of how illegal construction would be in Croatia, I thought 100 thousand, there were 800,000 requests of illegal construction that actually showed that the state had not done its job properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188135	Thank you. Dear Representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188136	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Taritas, I agree that this document that needs to be based not only on paper but in practice and implementation for environmental conservation, to preserve biodiversity, to preserve food production and to raise food production, to protect the safety of the population, but I am afraid that it is not just like in that folk proverb that says "don't shake chess for free, don't scare frogs", you know that this is not left in the drawer not to be implemented because, for example, the spatial planning that is important segment in implementation should be in this strategy is often the devastation of agricultural areas, turning into building, concreteisation of space, all the race behind capital, the race after profit, and the UN report proves the frightening truth about global warming, that the poor will die, and the rich will become even richer, the richer ones take care of themselves anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188137	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188138	Thank you very much. My dear representative, therefore, is indeed one of the narratives that we need to account for, which is that the history of the teacher of life. When you look through the history of great migration, people have gone out of space because they couldn't live there anymore. So water is the basis for life, and it was not possible to live on either this adjustment or anything related to climate change that man needs. We talk about nature protection and environmental protection every time we talk about those famous bats that we protect, so I don't know yellow ants, green ants, rainworms, climate change we protect man because it's gonna happen that you won't be able to live somewhere, you won't be able to live, and you'll have to leave where you've lived for centuries and go somewhere else. It's actually this strategy and the measures that go behind it no matter how dramatic it sounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188139	Thank you, thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, when we talk about a very important topic like this, it would be good and my colleagues said earlier that we also have a minister in the assembly, so I would say that it would not be a bad or bad message that the government of the Republic of Croatia has determined perhaps even Prime Minister Plenkovic himself to talk about this topic that will certainly be the topic of the next decade in politics, in society and, of course, among those who will be interested, and everyone is interested in having climate change on the planet where we live. So, unfortunately, at this point, I have the feeling that this topic in Croatia is not a top topic, and on Prime Minister Plenkovic's political agenda it is quite lowly placed. It would be good if even he were involved in it if he wasn't then surely Minister Coric. How much of this strategy will help us to see this in the future, but it is good that we have a strategy, it is good that we are aware of the problem, it is good that the Republic has been active in international talks and activities related to climate change so far. We are one of the countries as well, and most of the other signatories of the Paris Agreement, it was signed by President Milanovic, and on the other hand, it may be a little wrong for me that we did not use the EU presidency to impose this topic as a top topic within our presidency, given that here we are also in talks with other parliamentarians and, when we follow how our presidency is going, these topics that we have nominated are not some that arouse some express emotion. I'm sure this topic would be much stronger, much stronger and accepted in humans and on the other hand, we could contribute a lot of useful things and as a country in that area. So Prime Minister Plenkovic would have to be more active there. When you look at how much at the level, I would say, the whole, whole society doesn't talk about it enough yet, but these topics are certainly slowly breaking through and to the consciousness of our people since we see that this year, for example, in the Republic of Croatia we almost had no snow at all, for example, that this year in the Republic of Croatia we have had a lot of floods in Dalmatian cities that are not typical and have not passed, the past period since this year is one year in 2019. was one of the hottest in our history. All these data that are here in the strategy will slowly come to people's senses because it will affect their daily lives. And when you see, for example, the problem that we have and the floods, when you see the problem that we have with certain disasters, natural fires, it's no accident what happens. Here's this year's huge tragedy and problem in Australia, so it's all about climate change and the Republic of Croatia needs to be very, very prepared for them. What should be not only from the EU level but also greater allocations in the RS budget for, for issues related to environmental and nature protection and in some way to prepare our fellow citizens for, to fight, to pollute and ultimately to fight for, for as little climate change as possible in the coming decades ahead. We do not need to talk too much about how much climate change, the temperature, how much nature's impact will change on, on our life from winds, from global warming or sea level rise, is a country that, which is a large, large part of people living and by the sea, all of this will affect us and we simply need to become more active, perhaps the EU's consciousness about this because it is a shame that young people are taking primate in showing unburdened interests, economic interests, geopolitical interests, leading a generation that is simply no longer ready to wait but is looking for decisive steps in the fight against climate change. On this side I can support this strategy, I want to talk about, through the strategy and through the proposal of these measures in the future, how, to see more concrete budgets in the Croatian budget in the next period as it will happen. And what I particularly want to point out, and this is not too much of an emphasis, is the co-operation of local self-government units in the fight against climate change or environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia, which is something that I think we haven't even touched yet and that it doesn't reach the consciousness of some of our local leaders who are more concerned with peripheral things or non-transparent things instead of taking care of the quality of life of our citizens and how they can personally contribute to climate change slowing down or how we can contribute to what we would like together and what Europe through its Green Plan has brought up to 2050 to be neutral in terms of CO2 emissions. So it takes a great effort both at local level and through spatial planning and through the fact that units of local self-government use more resources and prepare themselves for, for example, energy efficiency because when we see, for example, that in the City of Zagreb, we have almost two hundred educational institutions, several hundred objects, over three hundred objects that when you look at only windows on, on these schools and kindergartens, you see that they have not changed 50-60. how much energy they spend, how much their conditions are cold in the winter, and in the summer hot or not, we haven't prepared at that level the simplest way to spend less energy, to be energy as much as possible on fossil fuels and on that side when the whole society makes a certain effort would probably achieve better results. So on the local level, the City of Zagreb does not deal with the topic at all. Here is something about traffic and colleague Mrak-Tatiras spoke, it is illogical that we encourage defacto transport by cars instead of both traffic and environmental protection trying to develop alternative modes of transport that will allow as little use of vehicles to, to, to, to, to, to, to fossil fuels. All of this must be continuous and joint effort by both the state and the local self-government units. What I would like to point out in the end is that we as a member of the EU, a member of the EU who now also holds the presidency, must take advantage of our influence and try to impose on, I would say, the top of the EU's agenda of talks with other major world powers or China or, or America, that these standards of environmental protection or reduction of CO2 emissions in the atmosphere must be respected. The U.S. can't only take care of its industry. We see that President Trump refused to respect an agreement that, signed by President Obama, had come out of the Paris Agreement, that is something that the EU would have to make more concrete articulation on the international plan and try to ultimately lead to all of us together defending our planet from further climate change pollution and ultimately create conditions that not only future generations but also thousands and thousands of years ahead have at least about the right conditions for life as we do at this point, which, if we behave in this way, we certainly won't have. So, the only question is whether or not it's going to be generations in 100 years. have at all the ability to live normally on the planet or be cut down or, I would say, distracted in normal life by the climate change that arises, the most wrong generation now living on earth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188141	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188142	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade Maras, you've been in politics a long time, I must admit I'm surprised. I'm surprised you were expecting the minister to come here first, the minister says so we'll bring a good strategy, it doesn't matter. And then the more you expected him to be our prime minister. I have to admit, for the first time in my prime minister's mouth, I heard climate change when she was a lady. Ursula von der Leyen in the Republic of Croatia was talking about climate change. But I ask you, when the prime minister should decide between coming here to the assembly and perhaps presenting a strategy for climate change or election in the HDZ on the list of his priorities, I think we know what his priority is that there are elections in HDZ that are very low in 10 days or when they are 15th compared to climate change by 2040 or by 2070. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188143	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188144	Thank you very much, Mrak-Taritash, I am not surprised, but somehow I always hope that some things will change because no matter what I appreciate to my colleague Horvat, it is clear what message would be here that Prime Minister Plenkovic presented this strategy to both the public and the media and people aware that something important, that it would be very important, what message to young people who here, on several occasions in front of HS and the Government, demonstrated thousands of them, thousands of them came from their schools here to say that we should focus more on this problem and fight climate change. Of course, Prime Minister Plenkovic doesn't care, he obviously only cares about how to extend his mandate in HDZ, even more important to him than the parliamentary elections because he keeps his political perspective that way. So instead of saying that his slogan is "Strengthen for the Republic of Croatia" he should have said that his slogan was "Best for himself".../Intruder: [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188145	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev, please... So that's all Prime Minister Plenkovic cares about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188146	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Maras, you surprised me with your statement or criticism that today and now there is not Minister Ćoric or even that Prime Minister Plenkovic, when you said yesterday that all the points we are discussing this week are irrelevant. It should also replicate and, and inform our citizens that the government's sitting is currently under way, and that is why both the prime minister and the minister are not with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188147	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188148	Thank you very much. This point is certainly important, but we are in session for 3 days, and look at the little order of the agenda and look how much law we have received from the government in HS and citizens will best assess how efficient it is and how bold it is for the Republic of Croatia is, in fact, the slogan "The most important thing for me or for Andrej Plenkovic", which should change the slogan in the campaign. So "The Most Important for Andrey", that's what his slogan should be called in a campaign for HDZ President. And as for that, the government gave, when the government, look, so there's Vice President Reiner, President Jandrokovic, it's very easy to coordinate that, if the prime minister could come, it's important whether he wants to send a message and send a message to the citizens that this topic is important. Obviously it doesn't matter to him, he has a campaign under the slogan "The Most Important for Andrej". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188149	Thank you very much. Since you called me this one I must tell you yesterday you said why it was put on the agenda when it was not important at all, and important points for Croatian citizens were not put on the agenda. Therefore,... Uh, no, no, but you said that point was irrelevant, but now it's become too important, just so I think. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] There are, there are records, there are stenograms, there are recordings etc. Is, uh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188150	Thank you very much. An article of the Rules of Procedure relating to the conduct of the session has been injured. So that's where the president says he's chairing the session, not commenting. So, if we wanted a commentator, we would ask Mrs. Milka Babovic to come here and she would, and she would do much better than you, Mr. Vice President. So, I'm asking you not to comment on parliamentary representatives' performances because it's none of your business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188151	Yeah, I agree, but it's also not the job of Parliamentarians to comment on me, is it, uh, if we're going to establish a proper relationship with each other, but we're going to go to the next individual debate, and it's going to be the respected representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188152	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning I'll say that this topic is important and repeat what I said in the replica, I think it's most important, it's a bit devastating that we're so few now in the Parliament when we're discussing it, that it's now a cabinet session or that the minister is somewhere at a meeting in Brussels, we could talk, not that now this point had to be in this session schedule, it's very clear to everyone that this justification doesn't exactly have some arguments, but okay. Here I will say about the strategy itself to me, of course glad to be brought because every positive shift in the direction of climate change, in the direction of one better governance, I will even say climate change, is of course good. As far as the Strategy itself is concerned, what is of course good and what is this, it is often not exactly the case that some 60 remarks have been received on e-consultation, and that even 27 remarks have been accepted. Most of it is that these are observations, I'm going to say more technical character, but okay, we don't have this very common case that this, in fact, the government or the Ministry is taking so many, so many single remarks, so that's also good, so in one part it's quality and prepared. Now, about the climate change itself, my personal opinion is that we haven't yet regained consciousness, I think that there is, primarily in younger generations, one higher degree of consciousness than there is, let's say, and I'll say even in mainstream media, but what exists amongst this, and even the elite, amongst business elites, I think there's still one level of consciousness not at a high enough level, and we have to say, I have a feeling sometimes as if we're underestimating this global warming, and that we're thinking in that way, look, the world is in the past, it's been some worse things, for example, in the second half of the 20th century, it's been a cold war, so it's actually been a cold war and it's threatened by some kind of nuclear interventions from then super powers, the United States States and the Soviet Union, so again, and somehow it's worked out, so sometimes that it's feeling that it's also a way that it's been a way of thinkinging it, Of course this is much more complex, that this is much more complex and that there is, in fact, no easy solution to it. We have already had several conferences, so from the UN Declarations to the Kyoto Protocol, to the Copenhagen Agreement, to the Paris Agreement, and so on, and so on, and some regulations have been passed, the good part of them are not respected, because always, for me, the main problem is that developed countries are ready to give up now, but you have on the other hand countries that are known to us as developing countries where they are very hard to expect that they will suddenly stop with, with such emissions, mean to reduce that carbon emissions, so it will affect the consumption of energy because it still decreases, to slow down their economic growth, and of course their main goal is to, however, achieve those developed Western countries. So this must be one problem that's not solved here at national level, not even at European level, but only at global level. But let us from this global level still descend here to Croatia because today we are discussing, I will talk about a strategy that will be one of our little stones in this mosaic, which, to which the whole world should make its contribution. What I said before in the replica and I'm not satisfied with it, with the way the Ministry worked in some other things that, in my opinion, should still be the foundation of that one system, and one of them is waste management. So you have a situation today,... that, yet, that the Constitutional Court should decide whether the Regulation is in accordance with the Constitution, that citizens don't even know exactly what they need, what they are paying for the disposal of waste, that some local units have adopted those fixed fees, some local units haven't adopted them, that municipal companies behave in different ways, that you have that problem again and the concessionaire, and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's definitely no real order, and I'm sorry that at least the Ministry doesn't support small steps, small steps like the Law that we've proposed, so on the ban on using or plastic plastic bags, I'm sorry there's not even a competition for energy rebuilding houses for several years. On the other hand,... It is good that we have used EU funds for this purpose and that we have restored a good part of public buildings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have good examples from the local level, in local self-government units some of them have, therefore, made those decisions to stop using plastic for single use, here I am glad that the town of Pregrada, where I am also the mayor of recently one of these local units. And I'm going to say that some incentive for that, of course, that we knew about it, and I congratulate all my colleagues from all the political options that have already made that decision, and unfortunately we in the House have failed to implement it, but it's kind of a small step that we could take, but it's personal to me, here in the Pregrad, the reason why we went so fast into it, is that whatever children in elementary school are doing a project called a plastic-free barrier, so obviously these younger generations are a lot, they have a lot faster to say the marbles than we are, and they're aware of what's waiting for us in the future. So let's look up, let's really look up to them here. You also stated in the Strategy, that I should stay here at the local level, that we should certainly take into account the development of strategic documents, and we know that, here we are all going now, or some have already set out new strategies for the new EU financial framework, that we must also take into account this climate modeling. Well, I'd also like to hear from the ministry some instructions to get, because you know some of them have already started doing these strategies to get into our strategic plans, too, because maybe people who do that won't have information. That's why I think it would be useful, that's what you stated in the strategy itself, or in the explanation you're told. And finally, what we need, of course, to make me one shift in climate change itself is money. You have listed very specific financial amounts here that, which should be secured through national funding, I suppose local, of course, and EU funds, they amount to 27 billion kuna by 2040, so annually some 1.3 billion kuna, and here we are also a bit of a cascade. Because look, if you're looking at the state budget right now, you've got about 20 million kunas that you've been provided for this year for repairing damage from natural disasters. You still have certain funds in Croatian waters where several 10 million are secured, but let's say you have no other resources. So, on an urgent note, the budget for next year needs that financial, financial, still ensuring at one level that they, then, follow this strategy. And let's say the damage from the basic disasters we've had in the last 15 years is almost 300 million euros. So, in some years it was, of course, more, there were particularly affected in 2014-2015, now there was something smaller, but you don't actually have one year that you don't have in any part of Croatia an extreme weather opportunity that we've never actually witnessed in the past. So I guess we also need to secure certain financial resources so that we can deprive these people, and not only are we going towards that it all comes down to the citizens themselves, something of course private property, it needs to be provided, it needs to be encouraged, it needs to be educated, it needs to be informed, because of the fact that citizens also don't know things, and there's actually the responsibility of all of us who make decisions, from the Government, from Parliament, from the local level to ensure a better future, here I will end up with this, a better future, primarily here are those children who are given in elementary school, for example in my Pregrad. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188153	Thank you very much. We also have on you a few, on your exposure several replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188154	Thank you very much. Comrade Vesligaj, you have rightly and unfortunately it is so true that younger people are much more interested in this topic than those who are making the decision at this time whether at the world level when we see how the problem is treated by the presidents of major powerful states such as the United States or China compared to a young activist who has marked an activist with her attitudes over the past year or in Croatia when we see what the relationship between Prime Minister Plenkovic or Minister Coric in relation to this law is, that is, this strategy compared to those students who have demonstrated here several times and sought certain actions. The question arises as to why this is the case and why the awareness of those who decide is still too slow to get information about the importance of climate change and how they should be opposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188155	Your Honor, Mr. Vesligaj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188156	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras, well, I agree with you all that you have said, obviously younger generations are more responsible in this part of us, I will not say, of course, this of all of us, but the greatest responsibility should always be on those who have the responsibility to manage the country, and this is actually proof here today. There was supposed to be a Minister of Environmental Protection here today. I'm not saying right now, but at the moment this strategy is being discussed. So he's supposed to be here, he's supposed to defend this strategy, answer our questions because it's just part of his job, so he's chosen to be minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188157	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188158	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Vesligai, part of your debate was talking about the problem of plastics. When you start to separate on the home threshold plastics then you can see how much in the household there really is plastics and how much it actually creates any household of plastics. And instead of the time when Croatia holds the EU's presidency to amend and supplement a law that regulates it, although to be fair, the directive says it should be done by July 2021, but I see no reason why it has not been done before. Likewise, I must admit that I see no reason to say in the assembly we will no longer use plastic spoons, we will no longer use straws, we will no longer use plastic glasses, and in this way we show that it is important to us, that everything we can fight against climate change is important, we are giving some formal answers for which we blame the framework agreement on public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188159	Your Honor, Mr. Vesligaj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188160	Thank you very much. So here, the images we see of plastics, so on various wild dumps, in the seas, in the oceans, etc., is something that probably all of us are aware of this problem that we have, because of course the best thing you can do, the best thing you realize is actually when you see it. People are, of course, visual beings. I'm actually very sorry to say that these are some sort of symbolic moves that are more focused on making people conscious in that direction. We're making a small, small contribution, of course, but more of a contribution to people's minds, because people are looking at us, people are choosing us, we represent people in the far line, so I guess it's our responsibility to show our first example of how they should behave. It's not just about the environment, it's about a lot of other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188161	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Vesligaj, you mentioned an extremely important aspect, which is the financial aspect of the implementation of this Strategy as well. What it really looks like in us and in the existing legal and strategic frameworks, it testifies to information about the collection of compensations paid by contaminants, for example, specifically those that release CO2. According to my information, more than a billion and 400 million kunas have been accumulated in the accounts of the Environmental Protection Fund, which are not used at all for programmes or prevention or repression or recovery. I don't know why, but I guess again for pre-election purposes, someone's gonna figure out that right before the election, he's gonna call the competitions, define the possibilities, and then he starts spending those funds. And pollution happens every day. Every second, every minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188163	The Honorable Representative, Marko Vedligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188164	Thank you very much. Well, here's definitely too little of these funds to answer this first part of your replica first because here, I'm going to mention another piece of information that you also say in the Strategy itself, that Croatia is among the three countries with the largest cumulative share of damage from extreme weather conditions compared to GDP, so at EU level. So we are among 3 countries, probably due to one geographical position of Croatia because different types of climate really mix here. And this about the Environmental Protection Fund, I really don't understand it because I remember about 4, 5 years ago how many programs there were by the Environmental Protection Fund used by all local self-government units regardless of political colors. So today it's gone. Here, for example, energy rebuilding the house, the best example of actually working The Environmental Protection Fund, he... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188165	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be those respected representatives of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188166	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, this Proposal for a Climate Change Adjustment Strategy in the Republic of Croatia for the period up to 2040, with a view to 2070, except that it has great importance and great weight due to climate change and therefore also because of the period for which we bring it. Climate change poses a growing threat in the 21st century and poses a challenge for all mankind because it affects all aspects of the environment and the economy and threatens the sustainable development of society. The 2040 climate projection in the Republic of Croatia, with a view to 2070, has specifically addressed all aspects and all problems. In fact, in the rainfalls we see and we can read, among other things, that a very small reduction in the average annual rainfall is projected which will not have a significant impact on the total annual amount. Furthermore, it says the largest increase in total rainfall of 5-10% is expected in the autumn on islands and winter in northern Croatia. Here in certain areas is placed an accent like Lika, so Gorski kotar, so central Croatia, northern Croatia, etc., it seems to me that it was forgotten, not for so long, in December 2019 we had inscriptions and dramatic images, said from Vodice, Skradin, Murter, Primosten, Tisno, nature showed teeth, locals in wonder, sea flooded the waterfront, entered residential and business areas, we also had earlier, signs of Vodice in water, chaos in Split, Dubrovnik, a leech in Hvar, due to the flood of evacuated kindergartens, schools in Vodice, firefighters pumping water in dozens of apartments, etc., not to say, apocalypse in Vodice, everything is underwater. In 2017, the city of Vodice has therefore already applied to the Adriadapt project aimed at strengthening and resisting coastal Adriatic coastal cities from climate change. I would therefore pray in these areas where the precipitations and areas are described which are particularly threatened not to leave out, or to add Sibenik-Knin County, to add Central Dalmatia, because we have really had major problems and still these problems have not been solved. When it comes to the total amount of rainfall in some area, and even if we see whether it is in a certain period, in winter or in summer more or less, it is one problem, however, the intensity of the rainfall at a short interval, these are the big problems that are just facing our area. I'll tell you, here, it's for example. At 2 p.m. in the Vodica area, 164 liters of rain, water, per metre square, or within one day until 17:00 p.m., 240 liters. There's almost no infrastructure that can pick up that water and take it away. It is important to know that the precipitation pipes are multiple diameters than sewers, precisely because of this intensity and therefore far greater investment and are more expensive. The city of Vodice plans to solve this surface through channels, as well as by building retention pools, but of course, all of it is, that all of this could be built and done are prerequisites and spatial plans and then I agree with counterpart Anko Mrak-Taritash who says that everything comes from spatial, later urban plans because without them we will not be able to get adequate permits, and then neither build, of course nor apply to the grants of Europe. Since it is known that spatial plans, urban and similar. If the ministries were to give consent, it would be good for these services, if they hadn't already done so by the city or the municipality itself, to warn you and to appeal to all of those services so that they wouldn't just forget to install both the coastal draining and all of this which a certain city, the municipalities, or the settlement, the problem they're facing, has. The second topic I'd like to talk about that's been specifically discussed here, that's the level of the sea. It says the projections are that the indicative increase in the range will be between 32 cm and 65 cm and that the same is used when proposing measures related to the change in the average sea level. It is once again said that the expected rise in sea level, the most threatened environments with low shores such as Cres, Mali and Veli Losinj, Krk, Rab, Krapanj, Vela Luka, etc., but also coastal Croatia, for example Nin, Trogir, Ston, etc. and I would ask you here because there is also a big problem with the city of Sibenik and the town of Vodice that in this part our cities are also listed because according to some projections and analyses done so far by Sibenik-Knin County and the town of Vodice it is said that almost half of Vodice will be under the sea in 30 years. We try and fight in different ways, we do certain projects that we want to raise the waterfront, even the plan and planting of 4 thousand small trees that should affect this wetland area because, of course, we have mosquitoes and everything that goes against our tourism. It's not enough to just lift the waterfront, we also need to know, by raising the waterfront and the coast, we get the weeds behind that wall, which means that we can only create a new problem. There are big problems, big investments and should be seen comprehensively, not partly from city to city. They made a good example, I don't know, in Rovinj and Pula by suffocating water in green oasis, however, it's good that there are European resources and here, and the town of Vodice is the only one in Croatia by Interreg and in cooperation with them we will at least try to prepare project documentation to reduce the spillage that even the least south has over the waterfront in Vodice, but we also have no better situation when it comes to other settlements. We also have written recommendations from the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Ministry of Tourism as well as Croatian Waters, however, nothing will be enough and will not do much for the inhabitants of our region unless there is the very construction and raising of these and the waterfronts and the resolution of the coastal waters. Recently, we could also read that climate change is taking its toll and that half of the sandy beaches will disappear by the end of the century, and thus tourist destinations will face severe consequences. Many of the beaches that attract tourists will turn into stone, i.e. sand from those beaches that make up a third of all shores, it is possible to disappear. I see that my time is about to end, and I would really like to ask that this plan come into play and put a special accent on central Dalmatia, in the Sibenik-Knin County, because since funding is foreseen from the state budget and European funds, it will be extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188167	Thank you very much. We will now return our point that we have discussed before, and the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188169	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, the proposal for this strategy regarding climate change in the Republic of Croatia, I said this this morning about the 2040 period with a view to 2070, such pro futuro may be some of them, but I'll remind you of the Kyoto Agreement that was in 1995 when something similar to that was discussed at the time, but it hasn't been much thought about since these times when we're actually faced with huge climate change, with floods, with droughts, with the slopes of the terrain, with the melting of the glaciers, and actually when these climate change came before our eyes, then we started to think about it. The fact is, look only at the city of Zagreb, in this year and last year, so winter is getting warmer, there is no snow, and it has a significant impact on flora and fauna, so on the plant and animal world, and we are not talking about what the secretary of state in its introduction was saying how harmful it actually is to economic operators and indeed to all those who live in the Republic of Croatia. So both humans and space and animals. This problem certainly cannot be left for another generation, it does not suffer any delays because it happens to us now and here, so we have to be aware of it, I would like that all of us, not just today, when we talk about it, but almost every day, that we have some kind of report that we are going to talk about climate change in order to make them even more aware of the events that are happening to us around us. So until hurricane Dorian happened, until the fires in the Amazon occurred, until the icebox in Iceland melted, until such things happened, and the latest actually hurricane Kiara, which was now in Europe, tells us that we have to work on these things every day, have one such strategy that will, of course, produce certain measures, certain activities. What you should also know, let's say no coral reef disappears because the sea is full of plastic, because it's actually happening that acidity sea where this flora and fauna are sensitive and actually such coral islands are shutting down. Any delay will cause even more damage. Today, the secretary of state said that we are losing about 68m euros at an annual level, which is about 500m kuna, so 500m kuna to give units of local self-government or hospitals or any other entity in the Republic of Croatia, we would see and feel how significant these funds are. However, since they are dispersed, they are not seen in such a way but in the case of climate change when floods occur, fires, droughts, we feel it very much because we must give it directly from the state budget, both from the budget of the regional and local communities themselves. How can we mobilize our citizens? To use these common resources and in a proper way to respond to these threats in an effort. We all actually know the answer, which is also quite simple, but also quite difficult. So, in the company of forces, we must not remain isolated in anything, we must not pay attention to such topics, such as these, I would say from the age of Jaslic to all institutions, through schools, colleges, state and public bodies who have to take care of it. Croatia was very well involved in this, I remember 15-16 years ago when it was actually discussed buying plastic or plastic packaging, then perhaps with a smile we looked at such things, but today we will rarely see plastic packaging on the streets, our riverbeds are not covered with plastic bags as we have in the countries in our neighborhood, and we can, we can be proud of it. So there's a lot of things we can work on. What I would like to say about only the Republic of Croatia and the commitment to these climate change, so it is also important to say that when Croatia's accession to the European Union is given a draft for one transformation and public administration, economy and society, Croatia has seen these goals of sustainable development, and in fact it has implemented them in the best possible way. Of course, with certain results at this point, we cannot be satisfied until the end, but the fact is that we are one of the few European countries that have implemented and implemented these goals and at that, and we are working on it. So, together with other members of the European Union, Croatia wants to be and be the leader in the area of sustainable development, and I think that we are also at many external forums and international organisations, both the United Nations, the OSCE, the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, NATO, so wherever we may actually participate in climate change topics and what we are doing here, because we are directly interested. Especially when it comes to our sea, the Adriatic Sea, which is actually connected to all other seas and oceans of the world, because Croatia as a medium European and Mediterranean country, has a great biodiversity, so it is almost 40,000 of these species and there is a significant population of many, many species that are actually in Europe today, very, very, very endangered in Europe. In this sense, Croatian attention gives special attention to the protection of the Adriatic Sea, and... is on this preservation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The national ecological network of Croatia covers 37% of our entire land area and 15% of our sea area in fact. However, climate change did not bypass the Adriatic Sea either, and we are aware of that, the plastics that we were talking about today are located not only on the surface of the sea, but also on the bottom of the sea itself. And it's actually becoming this waste of the sea, becoming one extremely, extremely, extremely big, big problem. Remember, too, that our sea, partly closed to the sea, has a problem with our neighbours who do not show so much attention, mainly with Albania and Montenegro when in the winter period, we have a large amount of garbage, especially plastic waste in the southern parts of the Adriatic, Adriatic Sea. Every year in the seas and oceans from... ends up about 8 million tons of plastic waste, so 8 million tons of plastic waste, that's a huge, huge amount, and actually plastic is located in the whole marine environment, I say from surface to bottom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since we have so much plastic waste, we introduce large toxic pollutants into our own food chain, and it's said that a week each Croat actually brings in about 5 milligrams, 5 grams of plastics every week, which is about one plastic bank card or that health insurance card, so 5 grams every week, it's not inescapable, because what we're throwing into the sea today, we're actually eating tomorrow. The famous Institute of Oceanography in Split and many of their scientists are working hard on this, on the education of people, especially our fishermen and sailors who are involved in this, and to congratulate them, and in fact here to mention them specifically, like our young scientist who lives and works in the Netherlands, who has worked hard to preserve the environment, especially the sea, Mr. Boyan, Boyana Slatu. And in the end, I'm going to tell a story about Zlarin Island and its inhabitants who actually made a story about two years ago called Rest from Plastics, where they educated not only their population on the island of Zlarin, but all those inhabitants who came to the island of Zlarin, and in fact what they did, we should all respect and so encourage, we should follow. So I say that if we do such things to preserve our own environment and climate change which we are talking about today in the Croatian Parliament, we will be much easier to bring certain measures and activities, but what the Secretary of State said at the very beginning of this point and its session, and if we have followed well, and in the very description of this Strategy, you can actually see in which direction it should go, how many sectors it is divided, which we ourselves should do to make it better for us all tomorrow. I hope we'll encourage it to act that way, because... when he steals your time, and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] time is too little, and there is no need to be afraid of such things, I support the proposal of this Strategy and I hope that we will do very much in this area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188170	Thank you, and for your exposure, we have replicas. He is the first respected representative of Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188171	Thank you, Vice President. I really liked that you said that any delay in action in terms of climate change prevention, an increase in total, the increase in sea temperature can cause unsightly consequences for both fishing and tourism in Croatia, and that it is certainly a great danger from sea warming, from the disappearance of some species, and then of course the danger for our fishermen, because some species will go to that part of the colder sea, and some will disappear from our sea, and it is especially a great danger for shelling because it is certain that by raising the temperature, a part of the shellfish will have to give up that production, and a great warning to us these days that we are following in the media the guessing of Periska in all our coastal parts and certainly that there should be a scientific community to find solutions and we must act urgently.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188172	Thank you. Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188173	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vlaovic, you have made a good point to me, there was no time to say some things. First, you know, let's just say American companies are picking up about 2 billion Euros of profits today, and various governments around the world are picking up around 30 billion, just 30 billion euros in carbon taxes. The other thing when you mention the Adriatic coast, so our waters and our beaches are one of the cleanest in the EU is 97% of the water is exceptional, exceptional quality, and here you should actually commend the units of local administrations and self-government that clean the beaches, which educate people, give significant resources to make them even cleaner, which is better and freed from plastics. What's the problem and you've noticed it well, so this biodiversity also about the Adriatic Sea, the fact is that about 700 species are missing which is not good, it's not just about clams, it's about algae, for all that is needed for one biological system in the Adriatic Sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188174	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Lipoščak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188175	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Babić, you mentioned the sea, pollution and plastics, and we are talking about toxins and actually colleagues and Vlaovic said part of it in his replica, which is a problem of warming the sea, increasing the temperature resulting in the disappearance of some of our indigenous species, but I would also dare say that some other new foreign and foreign invasive plant and animal species have so far not had opportunities in the Adriatic and which have not been present in the past few years that the same species are already doing a lot of damage to the marine ecosystems and, in fact, already, the consequences that I consider to be just the real effect of these new invasive species of power only after a certain number of years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188176	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188177	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lipoščak, the truth is that delaying problem resolution will cause more damage, endanger more people in fact and cost far, far more. I only mentioned this Kyoto agreement, but I didn't mention the Paris Agreement, but we also know in the Paris Agreement that those countries that are signatories of this agreement do not adhere to that agreement, but that is what needs to be pursued. The fact that it is certain stakeholders, multinational companies related to the production of electricity, which actually creates a problem for them, and I can't, I can't respect certain things. But any such delay will cost us. And we actually see it by melting the glaciers, we see it with a lot of floods, fires that are more like human beings, as humans, we can hardly control ourselves because nature on such things is sacred to us. So this increase in sea temperature, therefore, is related to the Paris Agreement, it would be good to say that such things are much, much more taken into account and much more stories in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188178	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188179	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, here is today the proposal for a strategy for adaptation to climate change in the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2040 with a view to 2070 and we can say that climate change and the consequences of climate change pose a real threat and threaten the very sustainable development of society as a whole. As the Republic of Croatia and its large, we can say most of it is located in the Mediterranean region which is recognized among other things and as a climate hot spot with particularly pronounced climate change impacts, we can conclude that the vulnerability to climate change is large and as such is assessed. The vulnerability of individual sectors is particularly important and this highlights agriculture, forestry, fishing, energy and tourism. Why is that? So precisely because of the climate-related share of damages in these sectors in relation to gross national product, we are actually among the top in Europe, among the first three European countries by the proportion of these damages. But back to the very beginning of the story of climate change, we can really say that they are a global problem, and I think we are all aware that we are already well behind in solving this problem and we are already dealing with certain consequences. Why is that? I would dare say that it is partly guilty and perhaps perception of the public as to the global problem and how we cannot or can have very little impact on this problem as individuals. Here, I will take the opportunity to read the part from the introduction of this strategy on page 6 where it is stated that, because of its size and economic power, the Republic can only make a small contribution to the global reduction of greenhouse gas emissions while primarily in large countries, powerful greenhouse gas emitters, are acting on the mitigation of climate change. Here, this is exactly what I was saying, and this is exactly the kind of attitude that we're unfortunately going through through this strategy that because of our size as a state, we can't do much, that we can only make a small contribution can act very demotive and very negative. How will each individual then think when as a state we send a message that we are not able to do much, and in the same way they can actually think about all of those residents of the larger states that we say are the key to the problem and that they can influence more, if they look at it from perception, if they look at it from the shoes of their neighborhood, their streets, their environments, regions or the like? The name of the strategy and the time frame itself seems quite abstract, especially for those younger generations, young people and children I think we should certainly put an emphasis on under number 1. I personally believe that it is necessary from small legs to instill awareness of climate change, from family, from kindergarten, from schools means starting already in the earliest stages of the education system and should certainly instill in them the awareness that climate change and how they are concerned and that they can and as individuals affect them. Otherwise, we'll be left with the mentality that it concerns someone else and somewhere else, and then we're back in a vicious circle. And of course, I also have to look back at the forestry sector, a sector that is very vulnerable, but also a sector that is very well aware of climate change and which warns about climate change, I can say, among the first, especially because forest ecosystems are actually very sensitive and very early and very clear about climate change. The greatest danger in this sector threatens us from an increasing number and longer season of forest fires, and the fire, as we know, is much more in the dry years and the Mediterranean, and projections show us that the risks of fire will increase on the continent in an ever greater and larger volume. Due to the very changes in cellular conditions that are conditioned by natural climate change, there may already be migration of species and pests today, including invasive species and foreign species that are already doing great damage. And also because of climate change, and therefore caused by milder winters, and some, we can say, domestic indigenous pests do much more damage than they did before because of, let's say, in layman's language, much longer seasons in which they actually do damage, but also more generations that, over the year, come into existence. And of course, there are also also famous general forest functions, the same ones that we often mention in this high home, unfortunately very often in some kind of negative connotations when we talk about fees. We have also seen from the strategy itself that it is forecasted for climate change and the reduction of individual common forest functions. I would mention once again by who knows which way in this high home that we must view the forests as carbon sinks because for every cubic meter of wood, for every cubic meter or wood mass that grows from the atmosphere through the process of photosynthesis one tonne of carbon dioxide is installed, which is certainly not negligible, negligible quantity and negligible figures. And if we want to reduce carbon footprints, the forest waist certainly provides a response to a part of this problem, we can actually say that in the Republic of Croatia it's been organised for 250 years. I didn't mean to refer, but we heard today actually in, in the discussions of certain comments on forestry, the forestry sector related to this problem and the cutting of forests and the way of management. I would like to repeat once again that the Croatian forests are lords of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia on the principles of perseverance and that, in fact, if we are to observe the forest ecosystem, we can view it as a 5-stage forest, rejuvenation of the initial phase, optimal phases, phases of ageing and decay unless we want to cut and turn forests into dust, then this process lasts for a thousand years, meaning these 5 phases, with it being said that in the last two phases, in the ageing and decay phase, the process of photosynthesis and carbon assimilation itself is significantly reduced in order to finally stop. That's why natural forest is the way we rule forests in the Republic of Croatia today in a way, in a way, on the principles of naturally managed forests in which this process with these 1,000gs. In fact, we keep the woods in an optimum in, we could say, at the oak of the watermelon where that patrol is longest, up to 140 years old. from the rejuvenation phase to those last fertilisation cuts, until that circle is closed again. And of course, when we're talking about wood, we should stress the necessity and importance of cascade wood use, or that this tree stays as long as possible, we can say, in use before it turns into fuel, before it turns into energy and thus re-frees the carbon into the atmosphere, and I've talked about it many times and I hope there will be more opportunities on that subject. And finally, since my time is slowly running out, to recap, the climate change we're talking about today is really a global problem. However, if we want to start solving them, if we want to start reducing the effects they carry with them, we need to bring this problem down to the local level and if we want to succeed this strategy, we need to bring it down to every family, every educational institution, every school and kindergarten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188180	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188181	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. With the support of this strategy, several sentences related to the need to act at this time. So, the strategy as a long-term document is certainly a good way to make all of us more responsible in all of these problems that brings us the need for action to address climate problems, but of course we need to act now. For this reason, I will remind myself of the appeal for climate action signed by 549 Croatian scientists who handed over HS in January 2020, where they warn us that the climate change we are currently facing is a state of emergency, and the most serious and complex crisis that humanity has ever been exposed to. The appeal calls on all competent institutions to launch concrete and ambitious measures and create preconditions for a systematic and comprehensive face-to-face with this state of emergency. In its latest special report published in November 2018, The Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change warned that preventing non-refundable climate change that threatens the sustainability of the country's civilization requires an urgent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by 45% with a short and medium-term goal by 2030 and its total elimination by 2050. Thus, over the last few decades, from year to year, the effects of climate change can be recorded, some of which I point out. Breaking the record of average global temperature, increasing and intense heat waves during summer and cold coastal extremes during winter, loss of glaciers as important drinking water resources, rising global sea levels, faded corals of large forest fires, ever longer dry periods, floods of large scales, and increasingly frequent and intense droughts. As a result, we also witness major environmental changes leading to growing problems in food production, forced migration and degradation of biodiversity manifested in galloping extinction, migration of species among which are the most visible phenomena of tropical species in the moderate band. Because of this, the conformist refusal to accept the reality of the climate crisis has lost any rational justification. We also witness the moves for action that we can consider to be the beginning of a global ecological revolution that we certainly support, and what scientists point out is necessary for everything to be approached on scientific principles. Sometimes scientists are somewhat in the short run and a well-known climate scientist James Hansen pointed out: “The caution is a commendable virtue, but today perhaps we should control our abstention because it leads us to a cataclysmic future.” Thus, in connection with this climate crisis, the central requirement of all scientists, and thus our scientists, is to make decisions based on scientifically based facts. In that request, which is why I applied for the debate, they are 11 measures. First, the urgent declaration of the climate emergency at the level of the Republic of Croatia as a model of similar decisions already made at EU level as well as a number of other countries. Secondly, the involvement of scientists of all profiles and disciplines who publish peer-reviewed scientific research on climate change, their implications and their mitigation in climate crisis-related policies. Third, the development of policy implementation aimed at building socio-economic models more sustainable than existing ones. Fourthly, in particular, work on systematic and active awareness-raising of the general public at all levels of climate crisis, on its complexity, including the development of ambitious, educational topics in the area of sustainable development implemented in school curricula. Fifthly, the urgent implementation of the Systemic Transition Programme towards Sustainable Energy with the ultimate objective of the complete suspension of the extraction and exploitation of fossil fuels projects, including the necessary retraining of workers. The sixth, identification and promotion of low-carbon professions and lifestyles and accompanying infrastructures. Seven, identifying especially vulnerable groups in society and working to minimise their vulnerability as well as the damage already suffered. Eighth, promoting local production, distribution and trade, which does not include the transport of locally available goods from remote countries. Ninth, fostering sustainable low-carbon transport solutions including the development of accompanying infrastructure. The 10th, implementation of sustainable technological solutions in all aspects of life based on comparative life-cycle analyses and the 11th, intensive support in ambitious and scientific research aimed at climate crisis responses. I therefore urge all these 11 requests to be included and included in the action plans that will result from this strategy in order to move into all possible actions that would ensure that the consequences of climate change in Croatia are as little as possible because also, scientists point out that the situation is really frightening, that if it continues this way, the Gorski kotar can remain snowless, the forests become savanna, the Neretva valley is already salty, it is estimated that in about 20, 30 years Croatia will have 1/3 less crop than the days and we see that many new diseases threaten us. Therefore, the strategy is good but a paper strategy, we need concrete action to ensure that climate change does not endanger life throughout the Earth, as well as in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188182	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the esteemed representative of Steve Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188183	Your Honor, Vice President. Proposal for a Climate Change Adjustment Strategy for the Republic of Croatia for the period up to 2040, with a view to 2070. Who lives, who lives until then, but we make sure that at least we try to leave this country to those who come behind us in some usable, useful state to see those of that time, with a time machine in the past, that we still took little care of them. The fact that a colleague of mine, my coalition partner Pupovac, is concerned about certain phenomena in Croatian society that are thematically connected to this topic, about how in some parts of Croatia, especially like, Banije and Korduna, for those who do not know the former landscapes, there is some new trend cutting down the forest, illegal cutting down forests because of the outflows of the population that are no longer in the area so that they can control that illegal cutting. I have to meet my colleague, I hope he's watching me, that this trend began long before today, back in that dark time of the Homeland War, in the team, and especially in the areas where I was, I remember that it was an impact on the global climate made by some tigers, it wasn't the Tamil tigers, it wasn't the Siberian tigers, but it was the Arkan tigers, those same tigers who destroyed the oak century-old forest in Vukovar on Đergai, those same tigers who destroyed oaks in the Sarengrad ad, in the Croatian ad, which in the ornithological reserve the largest forest in Europe, all the birds that exist, destroyed their seats, so their habitats that they used for centuries, destroyed the ecological site where the wildest baron in Europe, and now with this talk about what they were so worried about in the future, that they were so much more likely to destroy him in the same way. I can say freely about at least Vukovar that they were the first pioneers of ecology because they cleaned up everything that was allowed to be cleaned up. There's no secondary raw material left behind. But the subject is different, so I'm going after her. This topic is of the wider interest of the world's population. Like this, the Danube - Sava channel, let's remember that the Homeland War and the fate of Vukovar are not a coincidence. The Yugoslav People's Army could have bypassed Vukovar, but it didn't. The Serbs and their mentors wanted at all costs to move the Croats away from the Danube so that the Croats would never again be the Danube people and prevent the goods flows of the Adriatic – Central Europe. Stock direction Jadran, the Sisak railway line, water transport Šamac – Vukovar – Podunavlje gets the importance, and it is also an impenetrable cereal. The price of the Danube channel – Sava at the time it was... It was 250 million U.S. dollars just for the first phase of self-inflicted irrigation. [[You don't understand.]] We give so much money every year to various associations of "Babas", "Toads" and other on-call haters of the Republic of Croatia wrapped up in the whole of Quasi-human rights. Where are we now? Today we talk about climate change rather than putting our interests in the future of climate extremes and our children's interests. Due to climate change Milankovic's cycles, a well-known minority of Serbian nationality who studied and studied these cycles, solar ten and a half years of cycle plus the impact of civilization on the weather extremes of droughts, but also floods will become more frequent and pronounced. Is there a solution? Experts have long claimed that the multi-purpose canal from Vukovar to Slavonski Šamac near Slavonski Brod is intended for sailing, but also for irrigation is an old solution from the Habsburg era. The Habsburg people knew that over ten months a year, the Danube was about 5 meters lower than Sava, and all Slavonic rivers on the channel track are suitable for setting and irrigation. With a natural fall, the canal water would soak 2/3 of Slavonia, part of Western Sreme and a good piece of Banovina free of charge. How current the idea is also showing rough mathematics. Any damage to the drought is twice the price of such a channel. Of the planned 68km of canals, only 11 were dug in the semi-profile, but that was enough to save the surrounding Slavonski Brod from coastal waters during the flood crisis in 2014. Regrets God that we did not have a finished multi-purpose channel Danube – Sava would protect... and the neighboring Bosnian Posavina, where the Croats live. [[You don't understand.]] How murderous it was to see the dying Spanish forest, the spa villages, and that's when our president got the water pipe cracked. Imagine the tragedies. The whole Cvelferija Posavina submerged, and the president's pipe breaks in the bathroom, and then the better-respected minister of construction Anka Mrak Taritas on the general care of the Croatian people in Cvelferia hurrys to the rescue of the same Cvelferium with the restoration of the place, and in particular she pointed out in the restoration of Gunja where she, by her contribution to her jury account, was possible to arrive in this great struggle, and only there is a visible shift where the brushes for the toilets were at the price of 280 kn, and here she is today disgusting the bandic price of the brush. And so, some under cover of fighting for the preservation of habitats and wild birds, as well as our Posavians of our Croats in Cvelferia took advantage of one such disaster. I'm not going to go to those hurricanes in America, but we have hurricanes here in Croatia that are visible in this way that some have abused it. But that should be discussed between the DORH and the others. In the future, we are facing alternating time extremes of droughts and floods with all geopolitical and economic effects. The fast and cheap supply of food with efficient storage becomes as important an imperative as production. Whoever rules these processes will rule the European Union. He who lords the food will rule the people as well. He who succeeds in feeding his people, preserves, protects them, will be master and controller. The one who saves his people is the one who succeeds, and the one who doesn't. I've got a little left. There's a lot left. Thanks, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188184	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be Davor Vlaovic's, but unfortunately he's not there, so he's losing his right to speak. So the next final on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List will speak to the respected representative Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188185	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State with his associates, of course he's here today talking about this document I'm the most I've heard were actually voices of support. Everyone is aware that something needs to be done and that this time that we once had in front of us is now behind us, at this point must be happening, it's not just a strategy it's today. Today, which must be painted as quickly as possible in order to achieve all planned activities. Of course, in this document anyone could add something else, but what's really important is to consider where we are. Where we are like Croatia in the whole problem, so if we look at some of our regions, especially the ones from which I come from the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, the real question is, which we can contribute in particular. What can contribute to an area that is impoverished by humans, where human influence is becoming smaller, and those who are there are increasingly felt as victims of events around them. It is less and less, if we are talking about agriculture, even agricultural producers, the less and less application of unacceptable certain substances, and the increasing victim of this agricultural producer, droughts and other natural disasters that are simply said to be from the area of climate change. But then people who live there say, so there's good things about these climate change, that if there's no snow over the winter there's no problem with cleaning, there's no problem because there's no problem, there's no problem because people who don't live in their houses anymore, and even in cars there's no real need to buy winter tires anymore. We could do a lot about people in this speech right now, but then we go back to what might be a bigger topic, which is how it pollutes the most in the East, and once upon a time it was recognized as the centers of industry, as the centers of large industrial plants, in one Vukovar, which over 20,000 people employed, produced from footwear that was generally recognised, as well as rubber products, one Vutex textile industry, and so we have Đuru Djakovic. They were once giants who, at one time, created and influenced an environment that they cared less about, are now small companies that can at least harm the environment around them by their influence. And I could list a lot of things that would talk about us living, if we look at movement in Croatia, there's less and more of us in general, and then we need to ask a question about what we need to do. Whether this strategy should be directed only at us or we must actually focus our activities on those who are real polluters, which are highly developed countries, highly industrialised countries, because their influences and debates we are watching and watching also their decisions that will or will not participate in certain climate protection programmes. And then the question is, whatever we do here, are we going to reduce the melting of ice in our polar areas of the world, are we going to do this to our activities? We are some small pawns in all of this, but what we should use and our officials to get those who attend and come to certain events, especially where we are discussing the impact of being a voice and saying we can't bring all the problems of large nations, developed nations to small countries, so that we should be the first leaders, and we won't change much anyway. Sometimes when I look at all the measures that are listed, I ask a question, well, if it's already difficult for us in the east of Croatia, then melt all the ice, and then the Pannonian Sea comes, will we really have all these reconstruction problems, Draining problems and everyone else. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188186	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188187	Proposal for a Climate Change Adjustment Strategy in the Republic of Croatia for the period up to 2040 with a view to 2070. On the basis of Art. 14. The law on climate change and the protection of the ozone layer and, in accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Assembly, I am voting on the proposal of that Strategy. Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that most of the votes were adopted by the Climate Change Adjustment Strategy in the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2040, with a view to 2070, 118 MPs were for, 2 versus and 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188188	We move on to the following point is: - Proposal for a Decision appointing a Vice Advocate for Gender Equality, Proposing Advocate for Gender Equality, on the basis of Article 20. Gender equality laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality. Would the applicant like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Advocate for Gender Equality, Mrs. Višnja Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188189	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs allow you to, this is a unique opportunity to thank you for your appointment in October 2019, which you supported in this house. As regards this point of today's agenda, according to the Law on Gender Equality, the Ombudsman and the deputy institution must be persons of different sex, so one condition is that they must also be Croatian citizens, that they have completed graduate university studies and that they are known to the public in the field of protection of human rights. Here, given the appointed term of office since October last year, I held certain consultations and talks with potential male candidates for deputy attorneys and the election fell on Mr. Attorney-General of the Government's Human Rights Office, of the 1.6 legal adviser in the institution of the Advocate General, Mr. Kristian Kevesevic, who has completed a university degree in law at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, has been known in the field of protection of human rights for the last ten years, so primarily in the Ministry of Justice, then in the Human Rights Government, and in the last seven months in the institution of the Ombudsman for gender equality. He came to our office as an adviser from the position of Assistant Director of the Government's Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. In his work he specializes in corruption, discrimination, hate crimes and human trafficking, as he worked in those areas in front of the government on strategic documents, laws, and was equally involved at European level, the international level in working groups as a representative of the Republic of Croatia. Here, in anticipation of the support of the Croatian Parliament and the recognition of this candidate for the Deputy Ombudsman, since the institution has only one deputy, all the defence institutions have two to three deputies or deputies, I expect the support of the Croatian Assembly and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188190	Thank you very much. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists was to speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj, who is not, is losing his word, so the next one will be on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188191	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with a counselor, colleagues and colleagues. So, the lawyer for gender equality has been working without a deputy since her deputy was elected Judge of the Constitutional Court, if I am not mistaken, and of course it was first, since the lawyer was re-elected with, I find it broadly supportive, that her obligation and the right to propose her deputy. The opinion of the GLAS Club is that we appreciate the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality and we feel that he is doing his job well, that it is absolutely necessary to respect her will or desire when it comes to the choice of deputies, because she has shown by her work that it will be in favour and somehow for the promotion of the work of this, in our opinion, of a very important defence. In a situation where we have de facto many problems with the functioning of the rule of law, as we have seen and as we have witnessed, institutions or institutions, however you will, the attorney-general in Croatia has received an additionally significant function, so that the attorney-general and the attorney-general in particular, let's say to the vulnerable groups or individual groups that we have assessed as needing a lawyer or advocate, have in some way become the main institutions of the legal conscience of the Croatian society, and in this respect we believe that their work absolutely should, firstly, be very important and useful institutions, that institutions which, even in difficult times of persuasion, make me gentle, have one particularly important function and role, since they are naturally focused on the most sensitive groups or discriminatory by any criterion of the population within society, their role makes them additionally important. In this case, the lawyer suggested Mr. Kristian Kevesevic as his deputy, according to the biography that we could see, he is absolutely qualified, I must say that as far as we are concerned in GLAS, that there may be a very recommendation of the Ombudsman, but if you look at Mr. Kevesevic's biography, you can see that he has been working on these topics practically throughout his work, and in all his professional engagement, he has dealt with the fight against discrimination, against hate speech, he has worked in institutions that are focusing on this, on these topics, and then, now he has worked as a counselor for gender equality, so he is also familiar with the subject. If I may say I've Googled him a little bit, so I've seen that in between, except for the topic, he's dealt with rock music, and there's, I think, twenty, twenty, twenty author's rock songs that appear when you Google it, which I think adds one element of creativity, and if I may say and dissipation, which is important for this kind of work, and I think it can only be important, because it requires insight into situations that aren't on PS, which are not orderly, which are difficult, complicated and often each for myself unique and from my perspective, that kind of engagement gives him another, say, positive point for doing this kind of work. As you can see, from my debate, we will support him, I personally wasn't familiar with the results of his work before, but according to all this, what is seen from the résumé, according to the attorney's recommendation, and even in this one, little extra dimension, we think he'll be doing this job well, and we wish you a lot of success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188192	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Željka Josic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188193	I would like to thank the chairman, the esteemed attorneys, with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Well, here it is, Mrs. Devereaux. Pusic said this very conveniently, that the gentleman is very creative and indeed a special résumé that is very important for this job. Here, I would just point out that the HDZ Club will support the prosecutor's proposal for gender equality, and we have also shown ourselves on the Committee on Gender Equality. Of course, we will always support people who do their job in quality and work according to their choice. What should certainly be pointed out is that this is all in line with the Law on Gender Equality where the Advocate for Gender Equality proposes to his deputy and that HS confirms him or her to resolve him. Well, if we look at Mr. Kevesevic's résumé, we'll see how he meets all the conditions, from being a graduate. A lawyer who has practically worked on human rights jobs for his entire life. Part of the Ministry of Justice, mostly in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and since 2019 in the Office of the Advocate General for Gender Equality. In particular, I would point out that he acted as a lecturer in judge education, i.e. judges of municipal and county courts, state lawyers, deputy municipal and county state attorneys, police officers and officials organised by the Ombudsman with the aim of strengthening the capacity to combat violence against women within the EU project "Build more effective protection, change of the system for fighting violence against women". It should also certainly be pointed out that he worked in the anti-trafficking unit of international co-operation. Otherwise, as for the job that we are currently choosing it to, or where we are currently choosing it, I believe that it will continue to be in line with all the recommendations it has made from previous institutions and in further work, I would certainly like to wish it to be as successful as it has been so far. We will, of course, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188194	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Sabina Vosovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS, ma'am. lawyers for gender equality with an associate, i.e. adviser, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support Mrs. The lawyer for gender equality, Višnja Ljubicic, suggested to me for her deputy to be in a place that has already been vacant for 2 years, if not more, Mr. Kristian Kevešević. As we had the opportunity to see in the materials delivered, his experience, his professional path actually speaks in favour of it, and the arguments were for what the Ombudsman decided to propose to HS exactly as his deputy, who should significantly strengthen the work of the Advocate's Office for Gender Equality. I am, here, convinced that HS will unanimously support this proposal and that Mr. Kevešević will work with all the employees of the Office, with us MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and with these institutions to promote gender equality, which is, in the end, 20 years and constitutional values of the Republic of Croatia, working to remove all obstacles, which are on the way to achieving full gender equality in a number of social segments and that together we will make some steps. There's a lot of work here, and we all know that, the attorney's office, that is, the Attorney General's Office for Gender Equality, has become a recognized institution and a place where our fellow citizens, and in a large part of our fellow citizen, address when they think they're deprived of certain human rights just because they're second or female. In addition, the Gender Equality Office has become all these years, has trafficked into a recognizable institution which also responds to some unfavourable social events that, at the end of each year, submits reports to HS and gives relevant institutions recommendations on how to remove all those, I will repeat, obstacles that stand in our way to achieve full equality. There's going to be a lot of work, and I'm convinced that the lawyer along with her co-worker and now teamed up at the final office will not be easy for them, women continue to make most unemployed, and still on the labour market all those who are less paid because the gap between salaries and pensions of women and men is still moving around 11%. Women are still victims of both sexual and any other harassment in the workplace. Violence as a burning galluting problem where unfortunately neither the implementation of the Istanbul Convention has yet to enter the stage in which we could say that we have decided actively and at the fifth speed to calculate and establish all those mechanisms that can help us fight violence against women. Women continue to display images in the media but also in the public space unfortunately cannot be satisfied with how they are positioned here. But I hope we can do a lot of work together. Here I was today, a little under the impression maybe, at 11 o'clock on one occasion. I opened, among other things, and I was one of the introductions at a conference or forum called “The Alliance for Gender Equality”. So, a year ago IKEA, IKEA Croatia Atlantic Group, Astra Zaneka, Tele2 and Coca-Cola joined together and decided to sign the Charter of Equality and actually encourage gender equality in their companies in such a way that they now have different models where they weigh actually equal representation of women and men not only in the working structure, but also in management structures where they actually have a convenient model that when a child goes to kindergarten or first day of school that employees or parents have the same day off, where they are working on the flexibility of working time to say half a year after that maternity and parental leave you can work at half the working time to keep your company paying you still full pay. So these are examples of good practice where serious companies, meaning entrepreneurs but also serious businessmen are actually uniting around a real idea of full equality on the labour market that actually the inequality feels the most. And I hope we support these initiatives too. Five other companies joined the initiative today. This is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia. An initiative that is actually a beautiful, powerful message how important it is to maintain human rights, how important it is to keep to the constitutional values of the Republic of Croatia, how important it is for employees to develop awareness and conscience about the importance of fostering gender equality, and then to carry this idea, promote both in their homes and in their neighborhoods and actually change society in this way. And these companies rise above some average. The company shows in fact how important a man is to them and how much they realize that profit is not the one that makes them successful or less successful companies, but that respect for every man and his evaluation regardless of the sex price of his time, allowing him to surrender to work, but parallel to that and lead successful private lives. And it's actually the key to every serious company's success. So, a satisfied individual, a satisfied man, and erasing all gender differences is what actually drives Europe and the world. But fortunately, it came to Croatia as well. Here I hope that you, along with your deputy attorney, will be able to work together with you and your deputy, when I am convinced by the Croatian Parliament, together with these successful companies, with us as a Parliament, with the Government and all institutions to really make Croatia small but important steps a society that understands that one of its greatest values is, among other things, gender equality. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188196	Thank you very much. Just one note. I don't think we should be promoting a single company here by name in the Parliament. We are now going to the next individual debate, which is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188197	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's to this subject, she encouraged me to say a few words to keep us in the Parliament as current. Last week, guidelines were adopted in the European Parliament ahead of the 64th session of the United Nations Commission on the status of a woman to be held in the coming days. And it is interesting that this resolution was adopted by 463 votes in favour, but that we still have against it means 108 against and 50 abstentions in the European Parliament. And otherwise, the Resolution regrets that many of the issues raised on the Beijing Declaration and the Platform for Action are still current 25 years ago. This Beijing Declaration was made for the purpose of promoting a series of principles of equality between men and women, particularly strategic action in areas such as economy, education, health, violence and decision-making. The Council therefore calls for a single position to be ensured throughout the European Union and to act in the fight against all those who seek to prevent gender equality, as well as all measures that threaten women's rights. In its guidelines in the European Parliament, it calls for greater involvement of women in the labour market, greater support for women's entrepreneurship, a reduction of pay gaps of 16% and pensions 37% of gender gaps, an advocate for equal sharing of responsibilities in households and care, promotion and education of girls and their encouragement to be employed in the field of science, technology, engineering, mathematics, promoting gender-balanced representation at all levels of decision-making and unblocking of the Women's Management Boards Directive in the Council. The European Union also requests that the ratification of the Istanbul Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women be completed urgently in all countries, to allocate appropriate means to combat gender-related violence and the protection of victims, and to protect and promote the rights of groups facing multiple and multidimensional forms of discrimination, e.g. Women with disabilities, women who are not white, migrants, therefore, the EU must act as follows in this regard. Promote and support the inclusion of a specific chapter on gender issues in all future EU agreements, trade and investment, condemn the rule of global blocking that reduces US funding for international organisations, if they provide and lobby for abortion services, provide significant financial support for sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights, and what is particularly interesting in view of the previous point, promote greater participation of women in climate action, the preservation of peace, peace building and mediation processes, and I call on Croatia to follow in all our activities these guidelines that the EU Parliament adopted last week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188198	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188199	Proposal for a Decision appointing the Deputy Advocate for Gender Equality. The proposer is a lawyer for gender equality, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Deputy Advocate for Gender Equality. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Who's in? I find that a decision has been taken unanimously on the text as proposed by the parliamentary parent committee, 125 for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188200	So we'll move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a law supplementing the Road Safety Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 817; Proposer is the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU based Article. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172 Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. The government has delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Honorable representative of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188201	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I feel like counting names. I see that our bill of law to regulate electric romobiles has caused great interest in this House, and even more so, the government's representative is here. Great, great. [[Intruder Reiner: The government representative is just coming because we've accelerated a little bit with this point.]] Then I'll talk easier. All right, I get it. [[Intruder Reiner: Because since the previous debate, many have given up.]] So since it's a nice time, I guess one of the reasons why we're having such a little nice time. But since when the weather starts, we'll see incomparably more electric romobiles on our roads than it is right now. So when I was a little girl, very, very little, then I thought, when I close my eyes and when I open my eyes, things will change. So does our government, but I'm afraid that when he decides to open his eyes, things will change. So with us, the topic of electric romobiles isn't regulated by law at the moment. Even more so, when you drive an electric rhombus and your expensive car, electric rom mobiles have pedestrian status. It'll be like he's collected pedestrians, which is pretty good for those who drive romobiles in principle, but when someone on that same romobile collects pedestrians, on the sidewalk, then it's like they've made or threatened pedestrians and they're going into civil litigation. The countries that are EU members regulated this in different ways. There are some cities that have regulated it and their legislation is so that cities can do so in addition to state legislation. That is not possible in Croatia. We have to define in the Road Safety Act, so in the existing law, that certain cities can regulate it in their cities. Some cities have even decided to ban and ban us at the GLAS Club, don't be lazy, there somewhere at the end of last year we decide to talk a little bit to people who, even two associations already exist, I don't know if they've both registered, but there are two associations of electric romobile users who are calling for it to be regulated. Those who use them, they are extremely good especially when it comes to cities, these are the means that you can quickly reach certain places, so you can absolutely in terms of first points today, or strategies related to climate change, there you show some attitude and the rest, which is also somehow you, and all of them, and these two associations have helped us in a way to say what needs to be regulated and how we, first of all, have introduced what the concept of a small electric vehicle is, these are electric romobiles, we have defined certain, colleagues, that you are on electric romobiles, it might be faster and simpler, but good We'd be faster. We just don't know what would happen. [[Intruder Reiner: They didn't use an electric romobile so they were late.]] That's right, we defined certain characteristics, we said what kind of speed that could be, we defined the way they have to be equipped and we defined so, what we should do behind that unit of local self-government with what, they're at this point being the topic where they can move, so we've defined that they can move on the bike path or the lane, if it exists, if it doesn't exist, they can move on the sidewalk, but then they're obliged to limit their speed of movement to 10 km/h. And in urban areas where there is no cycling trail or sidewalk, they are allowed to move along the wheel, closer to its right edge only on roads where the maximum traffic speed is 50 km/h. The same way we said it could be managed by a person over 4, 14 years old, I apologize, and in the night, that they must have a helmet always, and in the night and a light vest. [[State Secretary, here it is.]] So, according to people who actually use electric romobiles and who have certain experience, they show a desire to regulate it because these people are really in, or users of electric rhombus really in one awkward to at least say the situation. In principle, electric romobiles have a positive effect on traffic because they reduce the number of cars. It's a new mode of mobility. He's of course primarily in cities, but otherwise people use it. By this law or by supplementing the law, our appeal to the government, my people, we have to regulate it, don't let anyone get hurt, not say someone gets killed, so that she'll get better at it. The fact is that electric romobiles are used, the fact that they really are, you are both fast and flexible and everything else in its use, the fact that we are not regulated. On Wednesday morning, when I went to work in Mesnička, there was a gentleman who also apparently went to work on his electric bicycle. There was a lady with a wheelchair coming out of the hall. She's fortunately seen him go. So, there was a second missing for something to happen. Compared to having any, any traffic and walking is always a damage to pedestrians. With respect to the car and someone who drives an electric rhombus, I'm sure it'll be the advantage of a tin. We at the GLAS Club really think that this is one of those laws that shouldn't cause any squabble at the level that we're going back out there in the last century. We think this law that at least deserved to go to another reading. Some of the remarks the ministry has made, we are prepared to do another reading really to correct or correct. We don't think, I never think that one of us is knowing that the laws you're doing as if they're carved into stone, so now it's exactly like that. This law, especially in a time before a good time, is a cry without saying a scream. We have to regulate it, the question is the day someone gets hurt, it's gonna be too late. Today, all those who use electric romobiles have pedestrian status. Therefore, it should be kept in mind. This cry for us from GLAS says my people, let's let that law go into another reading, we're ready for all the things we need eventually, that you've concluded that we need to fix, and we don't doubt that some should be fixed, we don't even mind making an emergency amendment or an emergency addition to the applicable law. Go into emergency procedure, regulate everything you need, we'll accept it from this pay phone we'll praise you, but don't let a man get hurt so that I don't come to where, in my head, that we need to regulate it because we need to regulate it. The Corona virus will go one way or another, the summer will come, our tourists will come along with their electric romobiles and drive along a promenade along Opatija, it's kind of the most popular lungomare, which is from Opatija so.../incomprehensible/... all together. It's going to fall, what, we've got an unregulated area. Not to say that in Zagreb we have this unregulated area, I'm kind of always talking about Zagreb living here, I move there every day, not once on the bike, but on the bike, I'm having an awkward bike and pedestrian connection, and now imagine a connection between pedestrians and electric romobiles, and we treat them as pedestrians. I see that it is no secret that every time the opposition laws they get what, the worse term of some afternoon, but we get a chance to talk about it and we'll talk about it. It's always my right-hand side of the assembly where the rulings don't even read to the end what it is, they're against it. That effort that makes us understand why they're against it, and knowing that it has to be regulated, would be much better to do and to make a law addition and regulate it. Here, in that sense, we have proposed a law that is technically relatively simple. We used experience as some other countries say in reason, we used experience and Germany, we used experience and some other big cities, and we think that really all of them who are users of electric romobiles, but we all deserve to have a law that will regulate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188202	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188203	You have rightly warned colleagues Mrak Taritas that this topic has already been resolved and regulated throughout a number of European countries in some specific cities because, of course, the authorities of these countries and cities not only think about the safety of their citizens but consider this topic as one of the elements of the fight against climate change, if you want to protect the environment. Namely, a whole series of city administrations here I will mention a specific case of the city of Paris and directly stimulates citizens to use this kind of transport, of course, not insanely but with speed limiters to reduce traffic in the city center itself. And you already have in a number of European cities the possibility of renting not only that, when you come to Paris and when you type into Google maps the destination that you want to come to the question of how you can come, you are suited by walking, public transport or even a romobile.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188204	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188205	Exactly, if we really want to be a country not only declarative, but if we really want to be a country that has a consciousness about combating climate change or the topic of adaptation then the use of an electric romobile should really be an invitation especially in cities to use an electric romobile. But what we need to ensure is that we ensure that this is regulated. You mentioned the city of Paris that had a problem, you could use it in public, take that card, take an electric romobile and leave it somewhere else or the city of Berlin which when it was regulated had a terrible lot of accidents. There's been a lot of accidents because they used it in a drunk state. Since he regulated the number of these accidents, he has reduced because among other things, as he can when driving a car someone check or smoke to see you can and when you are driving an electric car. So, excellent means, excellent ways if you use but we need to regulate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188206	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188207	Dear Vice President, dear fellow Taritate of the HSS, I personally support this bill, and we are all seeking to introduce new technologies, knowledge and, in particular, those technologies that do not pollute the environment that are here in a certain way and increase the mobility of citizens, and then the legislator rejects your proposal or government for a reason only because it came from the opposition, which came from the Voice and from you personally and from your experts, which is certainly not good for this area to remain unregulated. 'Cause when there's an accident when someone gets hurt in traffic, then they're gonna be pulling back. This is where the government closes its eyes as you said, and it must not be glare because every man in traffic deserves to have legal protection. This morning, a cyclist died at Novska because she didn't have a vest and helmet on her, and certainly all the car drivers would have to have it just as you predicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188208	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188209	That's right, you know that and someone just beats themselves well, not to say that someone rips off an arm or a leg is worth it to define it first in law because it's going to be in some civil litigation needlessly. But you know, we won't leave hope and by the end of this assembly we'll be making certain legislative proposals aware of it not only that our amendments when they come out of the opposition no matter how reasonable and normal they are and someone at the level of this says ok can so not accept and our legal proposals absolutely refuse. So during this morning's debate on the Climate Change Adjustment Strategy, the government met at the same time and refused our Resolution that Croatia should be a country that takes care of climate change, not to say that Minister Coric instead of being there while the government refused to take pictures with Greta Tunbeg. So I guess that's what he told her that Croatia is one of the countries that won't have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188210	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188211	Thank you very much. Here is the esteemed vice president, respected colleagues and colleagues so as not to get the wrong impression that ruling against such a law is this bill, or even the initiative has been under consideration in the resolution ministry for the past three months, and we ourselves have made a proposal to regulate this. Last year, we had an amendment to the Road Safety Act, which was adopted in August, and this issue should be prepared comprehensively, qualitatively, and not in a way that is not even a defined question of what is a romobile, that no categories are defined, that neither the conditions that should be laid down nor the conditions that should be met by car drivers nor the categorization of vehicles, nor a series of other issues, and let legalise on the road such an approach without good preparation is bad. Therefore, it is precisely the goal that the expert group that has been formed through and through work and through very... The time comes with a whole proposal and a solution. [[You don't understand.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188212	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188213	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Škorić, we have no wrong picture. If the government wanted to, she could. We could have already had in the debate, we could have in two readings the law that defined it. It can still be done. He can do an emergency first and second reading of the law. We'll be the first to stand for it and there's no problem. We just said it wasn't regulated. Let's get this straight. We suggested a way. You know, I come home and I tell my husband to start the apartment. Then he says, look, but first this door should be replaced, and maybe it would be good to move the wall and the apartment remains motionless. Maybe we should have run it, and then in step two or three, do it? Equally, why don't you accept this, go to another reading. We are ready for all those remarks that have been installed and in the second reading and we will commend the government for its efforts to accept our proposal and let it into another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188214	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Petar Skoric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188215	Thank you, well-respected Vice President Evo, as I have mentioned earlier after this year's full amendment to the Road Safety Act, which has indeed been shown by many results, numerous achievements, increased safety. And this proposal by the Vote Club, which is addressed in the parliamentary procedure for amending the law, is the essence of this Bill's proposal to define the status of electric romobiles and their drivers in that law, as well as the regulation of legal provisions concerning their safety as well as the safety of other road users. I certainly believe that this type of vehicle is in a rapid growth, therefore in our country, but here in the whole world, many countries have already defined it, and this issue needs to be qualityd and determined. However, because of the lack of the proposed proposal or considerable uncertainty in a number of areas, I believe that the same right now should be refused and approached by the draft law that would be more complete, which could more clearly define a number of issues that arise and which would include all stakeholders, and in the first place, the Croatian Association of Electric Romobile Drivers, of which we have received very high-quality and content proposals that can be included in this law because they have studied because other European experiences have a number of practical solutions, and these are people who are used every day with a romobile and have experience in practice and are certainly the most called to give their opinion. We are at a time when the rapid development of technology has a significant impact on transport. Traffic congestion and a number of environmental issues which are also being raised required the production of certain and compact and simple technological solutions that such problems seek to eliminate or reduce. Electric romobiles appeared as a logical response to everything, as it is a means of transport that is primarily, here, and affordable prices, small masses, compactly and moving on to electricity. That is why, we have quite a lot of attention for this type of transport and therefore it is necessary to access the legal definition of such rhombuses and clearly, regulation in the context of the protection of all road users. Insufficient definition of the concept itself, an extremely high demand for such products, on the other hand, the simplicity of making, creates a situation that a very large number of companies produce such romobiles. Very different by composition, by mode of drive, at the maximum speed that can be achieved, i.e. without the existence of a certain standard to be met. Such romobiles can also be obtained through various channels and through numerous Internet stores, without being able to meet practically all the necessary requirements for safe transport, and in the good part they do not meet. I agree with my colleagues from GLAS that the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Road Safety Act should be adopted as soon as possible, and that the concept of electric romobil needs to be defined, that a way of transport on such a romobile should be determined, and that the speed to be transported should be limited. Therefore, this proposal is lacking and incomplete because it is not responsible for these many issues which are of great importance to define the status of such vehicles. In addition to the fact that the definition of such a vehicle itself needs to be modified and better defined, it raises a number of issues such as the traffic area where such vehicle may be moved, in conditions for the management, transport of persons, technological and technical requirements, registration or seizing of such vehicles into special records, parking and the like. In the event that, in this form, they would accept amendments and amendments to the law, one thing is quite clear, which is that they should practically immediately make new amendments and additions until they come up with solutions that really satisfy the demands of society. So in this sense, this proposal did not count on the definition of a vehicle, nor on the category of stronger romobiles where it is necessary to limit the age group, so I don't agree with this proposal for 14 years, and I think that it is also necessary to introduce the possession of certain educations, driving permits minimum for mopeds, you can't let anyone into the market that he doesn't even know whether traffic regulations, traffic rules and how such behaviours will be carried out in traffic. Therefore, it is necessary to define some safety elements, therefore, wearing both protective vests and helmets and everything else. I'm aware of how it happened, and here are a number of car accidents involving motorists who caused or were really guilty. And that's exactly why we add these changes and additions to a lot of one in a way that we bring them in to last, not to have to change them over and over again. These amendments and additions should be made in cooperation with all stakeholders of the process, so that both the MUP and the working group have defined, and in this sense I suggest that the Croatian Association of Electric Romobil Drivers and other civil society associations promoting alternative modes of transport be included in this task force. After all, the appearance of an electric romobile is a response to the demands of the modern era, a phenomenon that in itself is very positive and creates many positive effects. Alternative modes of transport should be encouraged, perfected and encouraged by their quality. That is why it is important to quality define such phenomena, legalize them, monitor them regularly and finally bring one quality legal framework, and to the satisfaction of the whole society. I'll just mention that from the proposal of the association of electric romobile drivers, where we have, here, received concrete proposals which are not now listed here to define the electric romobile as a vehicle, to define the categorization of that electric romobile in its strength, at its speeds, to define the drivers of romobiles and what kind of licenses, depending on the types of romobiles they need to have for the management of these vehicles, as well as their age, age for managing those romobiles, because surely that the younger person, you can't give him a stronger vehicle without a specific category, without education, without training and without certain conditions that will be prescribed by the MUP. The security measures are extremely important, not only for the romobiles, but also for the other participants, for pedestrians, we know what's happening to us, and at the footsteps when the rhombus comes along, when it's stuck into the pedestrians, so finally, the way of using the rhombus itself. I therefore believe that in a very short time you can go with one quality law-making process and that to the satisfaction of all, here, romobile lovers who are getting more and more soon and that question will be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188216	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, eventually, a respected representative, Nada Turina-Đuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188217	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, a few more words may be about the bill's proposal, something that we haven't mentioned, and what happened during these days, that is, given that today is in the procedure and that the committees that are both of the parent and interested, are called, and I was present on behalf of the promoter of the GLAS Club, and interestingly, on the committees is the result of the vote on the conclusion, and the conclusion was that it was not accepted, it is the government's proposal not to accept the proposal of this law, it has been quite narrowly for the Transport Committee, where the result was 5 to 4, and also on the Committee on Internal Policy, where it was the result of 5-5, which is to say that there is actually a very high, high degree of consent and position and opposition to be passed and everyone see that it is reasonable and that it would be reasonable. But these old and deep political divisions that they always impose on themselves, and sometimes for no reason lead to laws being rejected. But I must say that they were very constructive colleagues from the position in commenting on this law. But unfortunately, we all agree and we all say we should bring it. However, we will not bring it in, even though we offer a hand in which we say we can discuss in the second reading yet, that means all that has come from the government as an opinion we put into the law. In fact, let's bring in some things that will be offered in a broader debate. But it doesn't seem that way because it won't even get to the second round. It's not good. Not good for what? Because the tourist season is coming which despite all the bad forecasts due to this virus situation will probably be and will be good and where most tourists will probably come just using these e-romobiles using them as a very convenient means of transport on vacation for various purposes. So they will also be additionally meaning burden in those parts of Croatia where they have not been as they are in Zagreb. In Zagreb they are used I would say massively now that the good time comes probably even more. And of course we, this law, the bill of this law, are not what is said to be "sucked out of a small chest" but that we talked first of all to those who are directly interested, and these are people who have electric romobiles and who are aware of all the risks of using that e-romobile without legal regulations. So accidents happen, and they happen especially when it comes to traffic. So this law is more than urgent, more than necessary. The only timely adoption of laws and effective lawmaking is something that serves the community, which serves people. Everything else is questionable. It would not be good if neither the legislator nor the government or the competent minister found himself in a position to answer the questions that something bad had happened, some tragedy without it being framed by law and that it would end up with some civil litigation with a uncertain outcome and with the manipulation of, of course, legal offices that are not covered by the law and can in any way lead to the situation that those who are weaker are going through worse. That's what we'd like to avoid anyway. We'd like to be a state-of-the-art. We would like to enable local self-governments to further regulate this area, to include all of these other means of transport, as you have said, and not only are we open to getting involved in this law, and that there is simply one orderly regulation that also has all the other benefits that we have talked about means protecting the environment, facilitating transport in the city, one specific communiqué that we actually offer to our citizens in transport, even public inclusion in some kind of public transport. As a colleague said in some European cities, this has also become a certain kind of business. So you can rent such vehicles, leave them in the city at certain checkpoints. So it's all a contribution to the economy, and to the development of the transport and arrangement of one state, especially urban environments. Therefore, here is another appeal if it is possible to go with this bill to another reading completely open to anything that can be done to correct this law in the sense in which the Government has given its opinion. And if that's not possible at all, I really hope that by the end of this term we will have the law in the process, so it will be something or a lot to contribute to this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188218	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. And we will continue to work tomorrow on Friday, March 6th at 9:30 with the addition of the agenda and the first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Chemical Act, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 814. I wish you a pleasant follow-up this afternoon. SESSION Interrupted at 15.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-05-0.u188219	Proposal for a Law supplementing the Road Safety Act, first reading, P.Z. Number 817. The promoter is the GLAS Representative Club, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law supplementing the Road Safety Act is not adopted. Who's against that conclusion? Who's restrained? No abstentions. And who's to say so? I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it has been proposed by the parliamentary working bodies, and the result is the following. 88 is for and 33 is against it. So it was concluded that it was proposed by the constituency bodies.
