ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5341	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5342	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, motivated by fresh events on our political and economic scene today, I will talk to you about insufficient control mechanisms for spending money from the European Funds. Because of the billions of euros Croatia will receive through new EU mechanisms to combat the consequences of the pandemic, as money intended for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, a new major problem will arise before the government of the Republic of Croatia. The spending of European billions also includes very strict control carried out through OLAF, so via the European Anti-Fraud Office, and will soon be further strengthened through the newly established European Public Prosecutor's Office, which should co-operate with Croatian institutions. It is these days that the Croatian public testifys that there are not enough elaborate mechanisms for independent control in the Republic of Croatia. But when we talk about irregularities about spending money from the European Funds, our government could very soon be hit by OLAF, as well as by the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Otherwise OLAF is an institution that investigates fraud related to the EU budget, corruption and serious violations within European institutions and develops a policy against fraud. Although OLAF is part of the European Commission, it is an operational fully independent body. Today, I am talking about additional control of the use of European funds on the basis of applications that involve possible irregularities and fraud that have failed to detect domestic bodies from the management and control system of the use of EU funds in which it is a job description. And such fraud is increasingly and they are opening up the issues of possible abuse of the positions and powers of the responsible persons in the institutions responsible for managing and controlling the European Funds themselves. When we talk about the lack of control mechanisms, we are actually talking about a lack of funding that is not since yesterday, for which our government has not established an adequate mechanism for independent control of money spending, nor has it shown any interest at all. I will remind you of the warnings Croatia received so long ago by the European Commission, so Christine Borhman warned Croatia on a comprehensive 19-page report on irregularities in the implementation of the rural development programme. That's when we had the artificial creation of conditions, we had companies that were founded three months before the opening of the competition and the giving of advantage precisely because of it. Then we also had companies that had the same owners, the same addresses, and the basis of that achieved additional points. The above mentioned fact has even stopped the payment of support in agriculture. Although in Croatia we have a service to combat irregularities and fraud that directly cooperates with OLAF and the European Commission and through this service as an independent body should protect the EU's financial interest, but also the Republic of Croatia and implement the fight against corruption or malfeasance with money from the European Funds. For example, if there is a suspicion that someone has manipulated the criteria for selecting individual projects in the course of the competition, such doubts should be controlled by an independent body because it implies that the fraud moves precisely and primarily from the institutions themselves. However, according to a response that certain media have managed to obtain from the Ministry of Finance and have informed us publicly, in fact, the Office for the Prevention of Irregularity and fraud within their jurisdiction that they point out there is no power to exercise control and establish irregularities. Then of course the question is, then who's in control? Who in Croatia checks competitions and public procurement? In other words, there is no independent body in Croatia that could verify the conduct of tender procedures, public procurement procedures, the determination of control criteria and the like. Therefore, the legality and regularity of the allocation of funds is not controlled at the administrative level but is sent to the DORH or the MUP which are already overrun by other commitments and are also not experts on the European Funds. The only service that has expertise that could exercise such control does not actually have the authority. Croatia has a serious problem that can be reduced to the old Latin saying "who will keep the guards themselves". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5411	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Marijan Pavliček will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5412	The Honorable Vice President of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here we are here yesterday at HS we were reminded of the National Day of Combating Violence Against Women, so yesterday a number of constituencies in free speech dedicated themselves to the subject of violence against women. Really commendable, here I am sorry that from the Croatian Sovereigns no one contacted us in this commendable action because they would also join the same. We had yesterday and a minute of silence for all victims of violence against women and family violence, and we also had a press conference of the Committee on Media and Gender Equality where statistics on violence against women and domestic violence were discussed. However, we also had in the Croatian Parliament in April 2018 on the agenda when the Council of Europe voted on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, where the ruling majority voted with the support of many opposition representatives so-called. Istanbul Convention. Only the representatives of Croatian sovereigns stood out loud and clear against it. I will also tell you why, it was the first international document to pass through for the first time, the concept of gender, where far left liberal attitudes were imposed, where Croatia as a sovereign state should be monitored and implemented and the Istanbul Conventions by an international body called Grevio, which also has to be financed. We were the only ones who stood against it loud and clear. Of course we are against violence against women, of course we condemn this violence, but this Istanbul Convention was all but the document that should protect women, protect them from domestic violence. And that's what it turned out to be. What we have in the last year and a half since this Istanbul Convention was voted, we have no drastic decline in violence and domestic violence. This issue is primarily addressed by the adoption of more rigorous laws for offenders, by the courts of domestic abusers, for violent people towards their loved ones. And this only shows how guilty the decision of the then majority was, but also a number of opposition parliamentary deputies who supported this Istanbul Convention that definitely did not solve the burning problem or one of the burning problems of Croatian society, which is violence against women and domestic violence. Here, but I believe that much of the Croatian people will realize that there were also those who did not support this Istanbul because it had hidden intentions, and it was not supported by 377,000 Croatian citizens who said loudly in the citizens' initiative not to the Istanbul Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5440	Thank you very much. Next up is the IDS Club on behalf of which the respected representative Marin Lerotić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5441	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, I asked Minister Banožić why the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science, Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education are not applied to the establishment of a controversial University of Defence and Security. While, for example, in Pula, we have a reverse situation. All legal conditions for the establishment of the Medical Faculty have been met, and the establishment is being stopped. Why do you do that, I don't know. The Faculty of Medicine in Pula should complete a cycle in the development of the health system of Istria with a newly built pulsed general hospital and the Central Medical School in Pula, which is currently being built with joint efforts and resources of the city of Pula and Istria County, and will have the capacity for around 450 students after completion of construction next year. I would also like to mention a sisterhood study in Pula where there are currently almost 160 students attending 3, 3. A pre-graduate professional study. All places are filled and it is about students from Istria, Slavonia and Dalmatia. A successful collaboration with a pulse general hospital has been developed, allowing the hospital to receive professional and trained medical staff. From the above, the city of Pula and Istria County is recognised by large investments in the construction of a general hospital and medical school in Pula, which is investment in the health system and education of the necessary medical staff. On the other hand, the state is without any objective reason blocking the establishment of an educational institution where future doctors should be educated. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, it is an educational institution and it is a medical college, and we know very well that we are constantly missing the doctor and medical staff and that the system is in this pandemic ahead of the collapse. Therefore, he cannot understand who is in the interest of hitching off the establishment of such an educational institution. I would like to point out in particular that the Study of Medicine in Pula at the University of Jure Dobrila has received a positive assessment that it meets all the necessary conditions for the launch of the accreditation procedure carried out by the Agency for Science and Higher Education as a body responsible for assessing the quality of the study programmes. The education system should not be used for daily political purposes, but should achieve political consensus and clearly outline the long-term development of education in Croatia. Neglecting educational institutions in Istria by the state will certainly not help achieve the consensus. I refuse to believe it's blocking, that blocking the university has something to do with the fact that it's in Istria. So I call on the government and the prime minister to explain why the establishment of the Faculty of Medicine in Pula is being halted, and are we at this point more concerned with wars or doctors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5486	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSLS and Reformers on behalf of whom the respected representative Natalija Martincevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5487	The Honorable President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today there have already been talk of tourism, though tourism in Dalmatia, so I will say something today about the problems and importance of tourism on the continent. Tourism is one of the most important branches of our economy, and how important it is to us and how much we really depend on it we see just today at the time of the crown when it has proved that given the situation in the rest of our economy that we will still be very, very long dependent on this tourism, so it would be high time, I think that the Ministry of Tourism, of course by its work, becomes a serious ministry, but that the government is starting to treat it as a serious ministry. We're talking here at this point as far as tourism is concerned, about a whole series of problems. The most current one at the moment is certainly the new law that came into effect from 1.1.2020, which has not previously solved the key problem at all, which is the problem of the functioning of the tourist communities, but has made it more difficult with its provisions to reverse the whole story, complicated it, which is the best evidence of the fact that the whole system has been dealing with harmonisations for 10 months, by calling congregations, reports, etc., while at the same time in those 10 months, the ministry has failed to adopt implementing documents or related regulations, so 10 months, so the confusion is complete. Furthermore, for tourism funding from 2 key funds, it is the Fund for Undeveloped and the Association Fund, which is filled with tourist memberships and tourist fees, the discretionary decisions of the government have been redistributed within the framework of the system, but we have no knowledge about it, where, who, why and how. In fact, there are no regulations, nor are there criteria based on which such funds could be reported or monitored. Furthermore, when we talk about the functioning of the mentioned tourist communities, they have a whole range of jobs to do, management of destination, launch of initiatives, information, coordination, participation in the development of strategies, etc. In addition, the ministry and HTZ are looking for a whole series of non-transparent reports, statistics with which they are working on a daily basis and now all jobs should be renewed, for example, by the TZ of the city of Zadar, which has 7,4 million kunas of the budget and the Varazdin County, which has 530 000 kn, so that is 14 times less. Not to mention, for example, smaller cities such as the TZ town of Lepoglavne with a leprechaun lace that is on UNESCO's World Heritage List and with the world's largest international lace festival, which has an annual budget of 28 800 kuna. And now we're coming up with a key problem just on continental tourism. As a rule, tourism on the continent has added value to the entire family 365 days a year. Continental tourism is therefore not just apartments and rent sun umbrellas and deck chairs, it is agriculture, OPGs, production and sale of local, cultural, natural heritage filled with events, festivals and cultural events of high artistic attainment and quality. I'll give you just one example... one Varazdin County project that resulted in an increase of 20% overnight stays in the county in 2018 and 10% additional in 2019. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why am I talking about this? So, one is very interesting and that we are now from 1.9th to 95% of last year's overnight stays, which means that in this year, when everyone has a boost in tourism, we are going to grow, but I am talking about that project as well as a number of other projects from the north, the states, the competent ministry and HTZ do not recognize. It is not recognised north of Croatia or in the videos and the last promo tourist sport for Croatia ends in Zagreb, so there are no Trakoscans, no Zagorje, no Varazdin, no Međimurje wine roads. We are not in videos, we are not in contributions to HRT and we were not even on the map of the former tourism minister who did not come to Varazdin County for an official visit, and we are not particularly in financing. We expect the new minister and her team to stop discrimination against continental tourism in the north and fully support our projects and the development of our tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5510	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of IP, Smart and GLAS on behalf of whom the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5511	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. There is one topic that follows us almost from the creation of the Croatian state and every little bit is broken by spears around it, which is work on Sundays. And yet again, this subject has appeared to us for two reasons. The first reason is the decision of the Constitutional Court which assessed that the ban on working on Sundays was exaggerated, even under the terms of the pandemic, and the second reason is the announcements from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it is in the plan to draw up a proposal that would be arranged on Sundays. constraint. The theme of Sunday's work was also given a strong ideological omen, so this is about family, about community, that one day of the week, about tradition and culture. In fact, the point is that every honest Croat on Sundays should be at Mass but these are missed and irrelevant arguments. Perhaps a few poor Croatian families would welcome a little extra income or, say, a week off so that they can perform other obligations or escort the child to school. Important arguments in this debate, that's two arguments. How much damage would we do to our economy by banning Sundays and so forth, can we, as a state, finally ensure that people who work on Sundays are adequately paid and not exploited? It's the only two important things in this debate. As for the first things, the damage the economy would suffer, there is no dispute between economic experts and among scientists, the freedom to determine working time has proven to increase employment but also leads to the establishment of natural balance. Those to whom it is worth working, work, and those who do not work. Especially wrong are some solutions that everyone would like, and in fact, as we usually do, they won't like anyone. These are various ideas that some weeks are working, some are not, that some can't, that others can't because of the size, position, tourist season, these are ideas that only bring chaos and chaos. Let's ask ourselves a question. We already had a decision that it wasn't working on Sundays, how many jobs were lost then, and how many small shops were closed? The solution must be purely simple. Everyone's allowed to work whenever and how much they want. What is the role of the state and in which Croatia has been tragically weak so far is the protection of workers. Work on Sundays, at night, on holidays or overtime, without exception, fairly paid and some number of working hours a week should not be exceeded and this is the cornerstone of the role of the state in this matter rather than the advocacy of the Church while workers are mass exploited at the same time. After all, there is also a key obstacle to limiting working time, which is very clear on this point. Art. 49th clearly states that market and business freedom are the cornerstone of the economic structure of Croatia and that they all have the same position on the market. At the same time, Art. 49th regulation that the state promotes the social well-being of citizens. So all the answers in the legal-political basis of our country are located, it is freedom of entrepreneurship with the protection of workers. Lastly, the 9th Assembly meeting, GLAS proposed additions to the Labour Act which, of course, HDZ's size was smoothly rejected. The bill made it clear what employers had to do and how they had to pay workers to work on Sundays or holidays. And that's the first and the right step in that direction. That instead of hollow, populist courtship, we have a power that is willing to make the right decisions and implement them. There may be no more question in that case on Sundays that we have been discussing for 20 years and three times the Constitutional Court has made a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5512	Thank you very much. Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5546	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In Croatia, everyone swears to fight or to fight poverty and that in Croatia it grows to intolerable levels. We can fight poverty by giving, they say there's not enough but also not taking. I repeat, and not by taking from the poorest. Today, in the procedure, we have referred to the bill which is the poorest way to free the payment of the additional health insurance policy and those who have fewer incomes than 2000 kn per household member or less than 2,500 kn if they live alone. People are allergic when they hear something's going to go to the budget because they think the budget becomes a Swedish table where everyone takes what they need. They don't want to hear it for free because they know that someone will eventually have to pay from some other income. Today I want to highlight a word called and we hear it often, census. Census is a border set with the aim of achieving social balance. Pulling that line determines which people cannot pay by their low incomes. Census is a dam against social exclusion in which individuals are easily found because of poverty or lack of having and thus become invisible. Census is not set up in an obvious way, not by any chance, by catching as many individuals who thus participate in the life of the community as possible, but at the border that allows the system to function, whether public transport, social assistance or health insurance. Census is so welcome, a necessary fair relief, the problem arises when the censorship does not change and does not adapt to changes in costs and prices. Life goes on, if the census doesn't go on, people who also cause problems, accidents, accidents and diseases. Census in ancient Rome referred to the deployment of citizens to property every five years. The supplemental price did not change 16 years to May this year when our proposal was skipped despite 50,000 signatures of support, the Vladin was inserted, then ours was rejected. The government's proposal really offered a minimum increase of 47, and of 61, respectively, and thus achieved absolutely nothing. The new censorship does not cover those mentioned in the lowest assessment of the law and let alone more. It should be pointed out that this is a special, unique, income census in which all citizen benefits from social assistance, resurrections, Christmases, land rentals, and it is therefore unacceptable that it is almost the same for 16 years. So I repeat, none of what was written in the reasoning of the law offered by the Government and adopted by the High House. A complete failure by the resolution ministry, the government and the National Council for Older Persons. On the contrary, it happened quite the opposite. The number of citizens who pay for the extra health insurance policy themselves is growing with fear of the crown. And the number of people paid for by the state is 4 months. It's been down by 8,000 since the beginning of the year by 25,000, and it's historically at the lowest level since this so-called. G shelves or payment of supplementary by the protection of the supplemental by the State. So all the information that has recently been placed in the public is the deception of the public and the falsehood of the so-called well-being of the pensioners, the May amendments and the additions of the law and the increase of the censorships 47 and 61 kuna, respectively. The law which the HSS and HSU Club today referred to in the procedure is a real measure and a real challenge for the National Council and the Government to show the real will to combat poverty, to which the government's Strategy to fight poverty and social exclusion is bound in 2014-2020, in which the availability of healthcare is one of the outstanding objectives. We are bound by 50,000 lists of support from our citizens, and that is why we propose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5573	Here, it's 1 o'clock, so we're going to take off, we're going to stop at this point a little bit, and normally we're going to take a stand on behalf of the representatives clubs and the independent representatives. The first reported on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, the respected representative of Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5574	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Living on tourism, investing in tourism and boasting about numbers, and as a state not investing in what is fundamental, and that is transport infrastructure is an unserious policy that is not in the service of the people, but I agree, people have chosen it. Whoever is on their way not only in the summer season but also out of season, in winter, from Split to Omis, it will be clear to him how much this area has not won. The same problem happens if you head for my Imotsky. The long-promised Zagvozd-Vinjani Gornji road and not to list the rest for many years has remained on promise, and since its beginning of construction, nothing. However, I agree, the people chose and gave the same policy confidence in the elections. The fast road towards Sinj and the Chetino end, same thing. The bankruptcy proceedings, Cetinska, Dalmatinka, Jugovinil, Trimot, Dalmatia, Agrokoka, Winery Imota, and not to count further, in total over the past 15 years in Dalmatia, without a job due to a variety of bankruptcy procedures, there remained a total of more than 65 thousand workers who, of course, were sent to their houses and to the labour market, did not charge debts until today. And yes, it's true, politics has really tried to save and help but, unfortunately, it's unsuccessful. However, what is only logical and safe, which is that these drives would work today, that different policies did not interfere and frame similar people without abilities or questionable abilities. Employment as a political reward without the criteria of excellence has been something quite common for years because jobs are clearly over his head. Dalmatia without individual strategies starting from agriculture and beyond, because if we had only 10% of agricultural land, then only in Split-Dalmatia County is a total of more than 79 thousand hectares, and I'm sure there are those people who want to work and want to work. An eclectic example of the lack of strategy has long been shut down by the Kaštelan greenhouses, where workers are directed to their houses and yes, people have chosen such a policy because they believe it. Dalmatia old, despite the cosmetic so-called peanuts with demographic measures that are only alibis for inaction, and at the same time do not ask themselves the question of reasons, and thus do not offer an answer above the average number of malignancies, do we feel the consequences of the waste dump throughout Dalmatia that have been unsanitated for years and we are already feeling the consequences. Is it because of food from exports to malls or something else? The question which policy has never asked itself for what reason has quadrupled the number of infertile couples, the huge increase in the number of children with developmental difficulties, and not to mention. All this is, in fact, the product of political non-intervention both in the recovery or non-sanitary and the wastewater, as well as in abandoned agriculture and the conversion of import food of questionable quality. The political functioning in Dalmatia is similar to that of the Indian tribe that grabs the prey and divides it. Dalmatia is a place where nothing is answered, no one knows anything, no one is guilty of anything, and no one can do anything, starting with the executives in the nursing home, to the poor management of the unit of local and regional administration and self-government. Classic political trade is something quite common by the election year, and then fine-tunings start until elections followed by the same scenario. The most recent example of the fictional divide is the one in Split, a city of dissipation that has lost its dissipation in political terms long ago and fell into a political state. The town hall is the one that confirms the politics of senselessness already known and consumed for many years. Dalmatia is the end of which that political promise will last forever, but people have chosen such a policy again. Life in Dalmatia is no closer to what it should be, for a better picture and understanding of the life of political and functioning in Dalmatia, I will paraphrase a song by Mr. Ivan Bitanga from Runovic, who, in his collection of poems, is paraphrasing the words, "Dalmatia is a place from which many people have left, and those who remained the same." I'm sure of one thing, there comes a day when similarity, unequal possibilities of a political reward and everything else is really going to go away, but that day forever. Dalmatia is an area where it will stop figuratively saying the easy killing of anyone who thinks differently, lives differently and everyone who tries to live and stay, and eventually rhetoric will disappear as is good in this country, but there are people leaving because it's normal. In this country it's not good and life is nowhere near what it may be, there will come a day when sleepers will wake up when they apolitically take matters into their own hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5712	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Nada Murganic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5713	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk again today about the problem of violence. Yesterday, the first day after the National Day of Combating Violence in the term of the position of certain clubs, almost all clubs devoted the term to fighting violence and the problem of drinking to victims with proposals, as best as possible to carry out some activities and measures to fully mitigate this negative phenomenon. Today, on behalf of the Sovereignist Club, we have the same debate, that is, taking a position on the subject of violence, but not in terms of giving some concrete proposals, but with one single goal, to further downplay all the efforts that the government has made, and this government, with the aim of easing this negative phenomenon, and to send that as a country, it is we who are the one who gives the message that we do not support any form of violence against women or children, according to all vulnerable groups or in the family. Of course, what is present all the time in the debate, concerning the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight of Violence against Women and Family by this particular political party, is the fact that the only objective of adopting this Convention is to adopt and introduce gender ideology in the Republic of Croatia, which is of course not true. When agreeing or adopting the HS Convention, the Convention discussed and adopted an interpretative statement in which a clear message is being sent that the aim of this Convention is to combat violence against women and families, that this Convention does not in any way bring gender ideology into the Croatian society in the Republic of Croatia and that all articles and instruments are mechanisms in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So what I would like to stress is that nothing has happened, however, even what the previous representative said should be more stringent laws. Last year, three laws were changed in this very sense, but penalties cannot be the only solution, when punishment has already been committed, what we have been saying. It takes much more than prevention, instruments and mechanisms to protect the victims, from all of us as a society having to contribute to the fight against violence, and such discussions certainly do not contribute. They do not contribute because they do not offer a solution to the debate in the public debate, in the media, in the face-to-face I have had opportunities with the representatives of the opponents of the adoption of this Convention to ask simply what you are proposing, which instruments you are proposing. We only know that you are against, with one single sentence and we are against violence, but in particular, what, apart from using every opportunity and every opportunity, and when spoken directly in marking the Day of Fight against Violence, when talking about victims, is not the opportunity not to criticize the Government and in the way in which many bitternesss are referred to unfounded criticism and untrue. So when you say that nothing has been done well, and I ask you, what has happened to what you are afraid of, what you have been calling fear to the Croatian people all along?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5783	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of the Green-Left bloc and will be spoken by respected representative Katarina Peovic. She's gone. She's losing her right to speak. So the next one will be the SDP Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Nadj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u5784	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'll talk about the risks of public procurement corruption. According to the generally accepted definition, corruption is a misuse of power for its own benefit. The area of public procurement is particularly exposed to corruption because of the large amounts of money that are being rotated and the close links between the public and private sectors. According to available information, the construction, energy, transport, defence and health sectors are most vulnerable to public procurement corruption, and at local level this is certainly in the spatial planning sector as well as in the waste management sector. Obviously, there is far more money going around than, for example, in the social policy or education sector, although no sector is immune from corruption. According to the 2019 public procurement report produced by the RES, the total value of public procurement in 2019 was 54 billion kuna without VAT, while the share of the total value of public procurement without VAT in GDP for 2019 was 16.46%. It is indisputable that there are huge resources that pose a risk to corrupt operations if there is no ineffective control of public procurement procedures. We are witnessing public procurement procedures by obtaining unnecessary goods and services only to get a part of a predetermined cookie, overestimating the quantities to be installed in the price, avoiding the application of procurement rules, the documentation for competition is suitable for a specific economic operator. The technical specifications shall contain conditions which may only be met by a specific economic operator. Cartel agreements on prices, delivery and the bidder are being concluded for the purpose of setting up the competition. During the performance of the contract, the supply, quantity or individual item shall be changed in full or in part. Companies under such conditions are very motivated to be closely linked to political structures in government or certain parts of public administration in order to pay so-called. corruption rentals ensure the acquisition of public contracts. In doing so, corruption is not only considered a bribe but also a donation to political parties, nepotism, trade in influence, provision of services and other forms of corruption. The question is, what can we do to reduce the risk of public procurement corruption? The key to fighting corruption is to prevent the risk of corruption, which is why political will is essential at all levels both at central state level and at local level. It is indisputable that we also have the Public Procurement Act, which has been in force since 1 January 2017 and over the implementation of this law is the Central State Office for Central Public Procurement but clearly not sufficiently effective as it is visible from numerous corruption affairs. Corruption is a disease of clientelism that is linked to the government of central or local. If a large part of the state function serves the interests of narrow common individuals, contrary to serving a public good question, what is the perspective of the Republic of Croatia as a democratic society? The vague and inefficient legal framework in public procurement, lack of transparency and inefficient control mechanisms are obviously the greatest risks of corruption in public procurement procedures. We have a Anti-Corruption Strategy by 2020 and an Action Plan for the implementation of this strategy, but every time GRECO or the Council of Europe's anti-corruption body has to stick it on our noses that we haven't passed the Code of Ethics Act of Representatives in HS that should have been passed six years ago, and it is now scheduled for the first quarter of this year but has not seen the light of day. Why has not a comprehensive regulation on the ethical system in the public sector been adopted? Obviously, we lack the ethical integrity of public administration officials. What are security checks for officials who manage huge public money? We are witnessing that officials are appointed to public functions, some of whom are served by public companies as private ATMs for millions of dollars. If there's a huge disproportionate amount of property, that doesn't necessarily mean that it's corruption, but someone has to ask themselves, where does this great money come from for real estate and valuable movables? But if a person cannot explain the legal way in which that property is acquired, it should be a signal to take certain actions. If someone dares a million and 900 thousand kuna bribes and carries them around Zagreb in a bag like he's carrying potatoes from the market then something dangerous doesn't work in the system. I'm sure he didn't mean to keep that kind of money in his sock at home. Citizens wonder, how did someone plan to launder that kind of money? Therefore, it is necessary to show political will, strengthen the ethical system in the public sector and bring an effective legal framework with high standards of transparency for the whole cycle of public procurement and effective control, otherwise, public money will continue to leak into our private pockets and citizens will be increasingly poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u6988	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good morning. We continue to work on the agenda: - Proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security, first reading, P.Z. No. 24; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 24. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Defence Committee, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation. With us is the defence minister, the respected Mario Banozic. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u6989	Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Annual defense report, sorry. The defence system is in a continuous process of adaptation and transformation in order to respond through the development of appropriate capabilities to changes in the security environment and all types of threats. The course of education for the needs of the Croatian military was determined at the time of the establishment of the HV during the Homeland War when it was decided to develop HV as part of society. The process of developing a system of military education and vocational training has passed so far through development phases that had the same goal. Improving the professional training of officers, accepting international standards and harmonising with civil and scientific educational standards and institutions. The proposal for this law is a continuation of that process. Next year, the 30th anniversary of the formation of HV and the transformation of the Croatian Military School to the University of Defence and Security, which is of particular national interest. Man is the center of the education system and this transformation is a proof of the endurance of investing in knowledge, education programmes, training and development of the ability of Croatian soldiers. The proposed law establishing a university for defence and security needs creates key conditions for further development of HR's capacity and military skills as a science, as also recognised in the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. The existing study programmes of military engineering, military management and military shipping cover all branches of HV, and are created thanks to the excellent cooperation of the Ministry of Defence with the Ministry of Science and Education and universities in Zagreb and Split, which will continue to support the educational process after the establishment of the University of Defence and Security. The Croatian Military School has so far been a partner of the study programmes of the universities in Zagreb and Split, and by establishing the University of Defence and Security it wants to be the holder of these programmes because this allows for further strengthening of the HV. As the holder, apart from improving the system of education of officers, the university will allow the development of scientific and educational staff for the interdisciplinary field of science in the field of military and security intelligence and skills, and will be able to apply to EU funds as far as it could not. The university will develop and conduct scientific research on support and military-defense and security-intelligence activities, and the implementation of study programmes will allow development in the field of military-defense and security-intelligence science and skills. We must seek as high-quality education system as possible to contribute to the development of HV through the creation of personnel that will gain one required width for quality management and management in the performance of all tasks. In order for the quality of education to be as good as possible, students need to be provided with the best conditions to learn and acquire new knowledge and skills. That's why it worked intensively to build the accompanying infrastructure. We are working on building new and restoring existing sports facilities, accommodation facilities and soon new congress centres. Based on this, this University will develop into one of the more modern campuses. Further construction of infrastructure will be accompanied by the development of the University, as a centre for the education of Croatian and partner soldiers and other participants of the Homeland Security System. The university will allow for strong HV affirmation on the international stage. As a university, we will work easier with foreign universities in the west to create better conditions for the development of our cadets and teaching staff. This will further expand their knowledge and skills. In cooperation with the University of Zagreb, the University of Zagreb will also conduct an interdisciplinary postgraduate specialist study – Homeland Security and will receive stronger support from the Homeland Security System. In addition to a new study of Homeland Security, defence and security education, it will gain a new dimension and provide new competences in the home security system in the training of HV officers, as well as other experts in the area of Homeland Security. This law establishes the University of Defence and Security as a public institution and regulates its activities, management, property, and the issue of importance for the work of the university. This University will be established as well as other public universities in the Republic of Croatia, it will be subject to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. This University will have certain specificities and will also be subject to defence laws, while respecting the constitutional provision on university autonomy. Founder of the University of Defence and Security, who, in accordance with the proposed law, will bear the name of the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman is the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and duties of founders will be performed by the MORH. As a component, the university can have departments, centres and university institutes and other components that will serve to meet the needs of students and universities. The internal structure and other issues relevant for the operation of the university shall be governed by the Statute of the University. The bodies of the university are rector, university counsel and senate. The University may have other bodies whose establishment, composition and jurisdiction is governed by the statute and other general act of the University. The funding for the operation of the university shall be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia at the level of the Ministry of Defence. The funds of the university also constitute the means of obtaining services and obtaining from other sources that can be used exclusively for the performance and development of the university's activities. The property needed to carry out the university’s activities is owned by the Ministry of Defence and allocated to the use of the university by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. University employees are officials and tenants. Jobs and working conditions of employees shall be determined in accordance with the law governing scientific activity and higher education. Regulations applicable to officials, public-service deputies and the statutes of the university. In conclusion, I would like to thank everyone who participated in this draft law from the Ministry of Science and Education which has provided full support and who was actively involved with the Ministry of Defence in this project from the beginning to our partners in the universities in Zagreb and Split with which we have developed quality study programmes that will be the basis for further development of the university. Military education is a demanding, specific and complex area covering a wide range of activities and knowledge, but I am convinced that we will work together to create an organization from which modern leaders for the Croatian military and other components of the Homeland Security System will come out. The organisation must focus on continuous development, learning and contribution of science in order to ensure the strategic knowledge and skills of students who, after completing their education, must be prepared to assume the most demanding and responsible responsibilities. So I suggest you support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u6990	You stay here, Minister, because we have ten replicas, so you'll answer from the pay phone. The first one is my colleague Lerotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u6991	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. Here's to art. 1st century 4 provides that the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education are not applicable to the procedure for the establishment of this university. When we know that the Academic Community has serious objections, I'm interested in what makes it so? Why does this university not apply that law as it does to everyone else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u6992	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u6993	No, I'm trying to understand the question. [[Intruder Lerotić: I don't know if I've been clear enough.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u6994	Namely, in Art. 1st century 4 provides that the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education are not applicable to the procedure for the establishment of this university. Why is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u6995	So, by proposing this law, we create preconditions for the creation of a university. The process will be divided into several stages. What we now have is the creation of a public institution and the orientation of people who have so far been involved in the development of these study programmes in collaboration with the University of Zagreb and Split who have participated so far in their acquisition of scientific and teaching knowledge and until we reach the stage that we can form sections, so that we can form... study programs will pass a certain time. In that time we will not stop acting, so the Croatian Military School will continue to develop its personnel, and this is all being prepared to reach this final phase which is the goal of this law over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u6996	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u6997	Thank you, President HS. Dear Minister. In your presentation, you may not have mentioned the development of this university in terms of commercial. We discussed a lot on the Defence Committee itself, and we think that definitely the Military University, as we call it, has great potential especially for foreign cadets and English language studies, not to mention this civilian part especially at the level of postgraduate studies. When we look at the experiences of the Homeland War, when we look at the university community that will definitely support this project, I think we should be ambitious by now when we discuss this law and think about the commercialization of the university itself tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u6998	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u6999	I thank you for this question. To date, Croatia's military school could participate as a partner in certain projects, which is where I primarily want to look at the EU-funded funds. In this case, we, as a university, will be able to participate, or be, programme holders, which is of paramount importance to us, especially the field of research and development. In doing so, I am thinking first of all... of creating economic assumptions for the further development of techniques and technologies used in the defence system, the development of the defence industry, but also of study programmes which, as you have pointed out, will have their own sources of funding through whether certain scholarships or enrolments to these existing study programmes. In this way, the situation that I have highlighted for the state budget is greatly facilitated.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7000	Third replica of my colleague Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7001	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. First of all, I congratulate you on your appointment to the government, to the very responsible and demanding position of the defence minister. Let me ask you three questions. The first question is related to the article. 12th century 2. Please explain to us what this means that the university cannot acquire, burden or alienate property without the consent of the founder, where other legal work and the value of a million kuna contract are mentioned? So that's my first question. The second question is related to the article. The 20th mention also mentions the implementation of the Lifelong Education Programme. Since I believe that there are many people who would like to continue such an extremely interesting study in later life, will you consider introducing an extraordinary study that would, of course, enable people of a more mature age to get this degree and be educated from this very valuable area of Croatia? And thirdly, there's a little outside of this law maybe, but as defence minister, I have to ask you, is the Slovenian army still on St. Gera and if it is, when will it leave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7002	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7003	As far as this property part is concerned, it is in nature that I have already stated that the Ministry of Defence in the existing properties that it has in previous years has joined in the arrangement, now high-level equipment, has acquired and conditions mean that we have one of the more modern campuses here in which it will be able to take place both the teaching and the stay of students or students. So kill this part that refers to alienation clearly for which reasons it arises because it means giving property to, to, to this administration. Speaking of the university itself, I pointed out that she has her own stages of development, right. What we have at this first moment is the study programs that are existing, which are developed in collaboration with the University of Zagreb, or in Split, which are related to military management, military maritime and military engineering, and that is what we have at the moment. Of course, from a certain number of participants that we have especially in this section where they are included The land. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7004	I'm sorry there's gonna be a second chance. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7005	Good afternoon. First, if we need a new university, if after 25 years of war we should work on demilitarisation we are constantly increasing the budget for the military, we are opening universities that will produce only military personnel and finally whether the appropriate name of the new University of Franjo Tudjman, since the International Criminal Court found that Franjo Tudjman participated in the joint criminal enterprise.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7006	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7007	Therefore, the Armed Forces need educated, qualified and motivated personnel to act on complex circumstances of all new threats and the use of modern technologies, and the independent University of Defence and Security is an excellent framework for continuing the implementation of as many as 7 existing study programmes in collaboration with the University Community of Zagreb and Split, and for the development of specialized study programmes such as the university interdisciplinary postgraduate postgraduate study of Homeland Security where we are awaiting the entry of new generations. The university will enable the circulation and simplification of business and teaching processes to facilitate management and development of quality control of education standards. So, everything aimed at the development of Croatia, the development of the Croatian Army. So we continue to leave cooperation with civil institutions, but some things like tactics and military equipment, military management are things that are extremely professional and important to us and that is why at this point we want to give more power. As far as the name itself is concerned, I think the name is highly selected as to why it is the first Croatian president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7008	Thank you very much. What are you calling about?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7009	President of the Assembly, we're looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7010	Just a little while then, please, please go first to the top of the Rules of Procedure's injuries, and then you'll get it, and your colleague Reiner called. Here you go. Just turn it off.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7011	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to make it very clear that it is embarrassing and unspeakable in this building to claim that Dr. Francis Tudjman the criminal. He is the creator of the Croatian state, without his leadership, the question of what the Croatian state would look like and the question would be given to those who speak of him today, either sitting there or being somewhere in Užice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7012	I thank my colleague Reiner, I agree with most of what you said and I would ask MPs and MPs to choose words, but the Croatian public will judge what they say. As you know, every MP and MP have the right to say what they think is true or not true, so we do not have to agree, in this case we do not, of course, agree, but it is the right of a colleague to say it and to hear it from Croatian citizens. Here you go, pal Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7013	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. This is embarrassing, that you are not ashamed to say that the first Croatian president is a criminal, so he allowed you to sit here today. Say this here, this is outrageous. I can't figure this out. Praise the five-point star that destroyed Vukovar, and you think the first Croatian president is a criminal. How can you not be ashamed? You should be away from the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7014	My colleague Pavliček, therefore this is the Croatian Parliament in which MPs and MPs were elected by the people and I repeat again, and I do not agree with what the colleague said. However, these are her political views and she, with those views, goes before voters and they support her or do not support her. So, we are not here to defend others from saying what they want, this will be decided by Croatian citizens. And I repeat again what has been said to me is totally unacceptable, but the MP has been elected to the Croatian Parliament. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure by MP Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7015	Therefore, the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238 here is allowed to present facts, I have presented the fact, so the International Criminal Court has held that, and not me and I ask that there are no charges against MPs and MPs here, does not qualify their statements and does not at all state what is incorrect and ineffective.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7016	My colleague Peovic, you have not stated any fact, you have made your point, the facts are completely different what you have said. So don't say it's about facts, because they're not facts. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7017	Thank you very much. The breach of the Rules of Procedure on counterpart Peovic who said that it is essentially a criminal enterprise of the Homeland War, which is absolutely false. The only real truth is that the Homeland War is a liberating war, a war that allowed us to have democracy in Croatia, and in that war, great sacrifices were given to the community for freedom of the Republic of Croatia, and that is a fact. No criminal courts have said that the Homeland War was this criminal, no crime. It's an attempt to make the Homeland War [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] Insolent, the Homeland War is sacred, the Homeland War was created on a common ground [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] many Serbian Chetnik aggressors [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] And JNA. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7018	Thank you very much. Do I still need to talk any further? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7019	The breach of the Rules of Procedure said that the Homeland War was actually a criminal war if Franjo Tudjman was head of the state at the time, I'd just like to say that Tito was the criminal who was proven and that the red five-point criminal who attacked Vukovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7020	My colleague Mlinarić, it was not now a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I am asking you now to finish, I understand that emotions have risen after that statement by MP Peović, who I repeat to me once more, unacceptable but I also have to defend here the right of MPs to express their views and opinions by asking you to respect it. Stanka was requested by the Suverenist club, it will be approved, so it is still reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure again by counterpart Peovic and co-worker Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7021	Yes, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, here are the constitutional provisions, here we are talking about the Partisans, Tito, anti-fascism as criminals, I think you should give a warning as president of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7022	My colleague Peović, this is now a violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part, and I am now giving you a warning, it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, especially as I have not given you a warning of an attitude that is totally unacceptable and offensive to the vast majority of Croatian citizens. Here you go, colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7023	Dear President of the Parliament, 238, of course. I can't believe we're talking about this without increased intonation and we just heard the most recent statement in the history of the Croatian Parliament, the most recent. And you've only given her a warning five times after what her colleague says. Well, you needed her. I've got my time, I've got seven seconds. [[Intruder President: Comrade Zekanovic, come on, please sit down.]] You will warn me, and you did not warn her. [[Intruder President: Here you go, please don't say what I felt and how I spoke and what tone.]] I'm speaking to my colleagues, please, if I can tell my injury to the Rules of Procedure or can't I tell? [[Intruder President: Please don't judge me.]] So it's scandalous that all of you here and you, too, President of the Parliament, are looking this way and tolerate the most recent statement in the history of the Croatian Parliament. [[You've got 10 seconds left, go ahead.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7024	So, colleague Zekanovic, you weren't here at all, and I don't know if you followed everything I said and I stand behind it. So, to me, MP Peovic's statement is totally unacceptable, incorrect, not based on facts, and that's one thing. The other thing is that MPs and MPs elected to the Croatian Parliament can make their views known, their political courts and, of course, Croatian citizens will be most clearly and best manifested. So here are the two principles, her right to say what she thinks is true or what is her political stance, but also the right to protect the dignity of the Homeland War, the first Croatian president, the dead defenders, and I do. Here you go, pal Bull, you've reached out to the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7025	I gave an injury to Rules of Procedure, 238, to a colleague of Zekanovic who says we haven't responded. I was reacting, pal, don't be a pope bigger than a pope. I've personally reacted and you're calling all the MPs. And when the thunder came, my colleague Zekanovic, I reacted as a very young man and do not claim that no one reacted, the attitude about the Homeland War is clear here, mine as a parliamentary representative and my club and do not be the pope over the popes and claim that I did not react when I responded and when you talk about all parliamentary representatives, it would only ask him not to insult the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7026	Thanks, buddy Bull. This is clear, so my colleague Zekanovic was not present at all, and my colleague Reiner, Col. Mlinarić, a colleague of Bulj, appeared from the presidency, and I said my opinion on it, so we do not need someone who will salt our minds, especially one who was present during the debate. Here you go, colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7027	Dear President of the Parliament, although it was not possible for me because although the assembly was half empty, I was there, I heard what was going on, second thing, there was the intonation of my colleague Bulj you could use towards my colleague, not me, because you have no reason, that, you have no reason, you told your colleague Peović nicely, and your colleague Bulj, beware of GMOs and continue to be with your colleague, Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7028	Dear Zekanovic, you take a little too much of your rights in a very ugly and inappropriate way to talk about your colleagues, judge the tone even to whom anyone has spoken, it has not been a custom in the Croatian Parliament until now and it will not be, so I would now invite you all to stop this debate because I think it is not, it is clear, we all said everything we should have said. Can we move on? You can ask Stanko, but here's your colleague Vidovic, what would you like?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7029	I thank the President of the Parliament. Well, I think you're the one who hurt your ankle. 236. Assembly Because there he tells a representative who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the chairman gives his word as soon as he asks and the representative must be invited to a concrete article. [[President intruding: Good.]] This looks like... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7030	I agree with you, counterpart Vidovic, however, the passions were a little heated because of statements that are atypical and unacceptable to me, but that is why I let people say their opinions, but I agree that it went a little outside the box, so I would now invite you to stop at the ball. A colleague called Bacic now for a request for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7031	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break to refer once again to the Law establishing the Military University of Dr. Franjo Tuđman is not for reasons why we would doubt at the club about the need to set up this university, but to make it clear in the Croatian Parliament that we will not allow us in the Club of Representatives of the HDZ that individual representatives of their frustration and desire and regret that it was created by the Republic of Croatia, cause them to slander, lie about the first president of the Republic of Croatia and the founder of modern and sovereign Croatia, Dr. Franji Tudjman, because, as already in his injury to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, F. Tudjman is the most responsible man for the creation of a sovereign and independent Croatia, one of the biggest Croatian sons and we will not allow him to be slandered and lied against by those who are both ideological and secular heirs of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia. To whom today the five-pointer means much more than the historical Croatian coat of arms. We here at HS have made it clear how we feel about insignations, about the sign of the former communist system, and I expect to see Mrs. Peovic here to all of us, so if you want the son of the first Croatian president who is here in this club, tell me. When he's a colleague, Mrs. Zulim. Peovic told you about your grandmother what she did during and after World War II, you asked for an apology from the HDZ Representatives Club. At least the HDZ Representatives' Club can ask for a public apology in front of the Croatian public for everything you say about Dr. Francis Tudjman and the golden times creating a modern and independent Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7032	Thank you very much. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7033	Infringement of Rules of Procedure 238, so again, she is offended and she would already say in some way and abuse the member or representative of this Parliament by allowing, so you are, in turn, allowing your replicators to replicate, now here they are already replicating because they are not actually responding or calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure at all. And they're giving me a lecture on what I should or shouldn't have done here. [[Agreement: Fellows Peović]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7034	A colleague of Peovic, therefore a colleague, Branko Bačić, asked for a break, no replica, and please at least study the Rules of Procedure when you are already engaging in such acrobatics. Here's your colleague, Beljak, you've also asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7035	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of HSS and HSU, I request a 10-minute break in order to bring my passions down a little bit. So when counterpart Bacic so glorifies Tudjman in principle does the opposite of what Tudjman was doing. So Tudjman insisted on reconciliation, and here I see no reconciliation, but I see new divisions in the Croatian people and in the assembly. I don't think 99.9% of people in Croatia think that the Homeland War was a criminal enterprise, that it's a common known and accepted fact between all parties and from the left and from the right, so we all know what's going on. But also to do black white things, to call that red star as something I don't know what kind of evil is not right for Francis Tudjman who wore that star. I mean, historical things are clear. It's not black white stuff, and I think we should all really relax and not deal with the history that is what it is, but in the future, and not create new divisions by calling someone that the heir doesn't know the Communist party when it's known that the vast majority of the 95,000 members of the communists went to HDZ, and everybody knows it, so let's just put a little bit of all the expensive tensions down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7036	Stanka will be approved, I think a colleague of the Dretara has contacted his colleague Bulj before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7037	Thank you very much. I would ask for a break on behalf of the Club MOST of 10 minutes on the proposal to set up the University of Defence and Security and, of course, we support it to gain new skills and new knowledge. I was personally then as a man who was in the war and as an officer passed through Croatia, at the Croatian Military University a certain education and knowledge that was of great value to us and means that the Croatian soldier and HV deserve to establish both the university and the new educational institution is the ability and knowledge that the Croatian soldier should have for our safety. We see in all the crises that can always, we see in the pandemic itself when tents were to be set, when they were to react to the earthquake, in the flood, in the fire, there is always a Croatian soldier there and of course we expect the role of Croatian soldiers in our country to be the safety and role of Croatian soldiers in the Homeland War to be unquestioned. Homeland war is the foundation of a modern Croatian state and there is nothing here to lecture on either the left or the right when it thundered, and there is a year, and it has not been, it has been, it has been on top of people who don't even emphasize it, and it has been on the front lines of rabatins in the Homeland War, and it's still doing them with which topics it will deal with. Doesn't matter if it was Peovic, our colleague, Zekanovic, Bulj, Deur who was a chipee or anyone. So no, Homeland War is the foundation of an independent Republic of Croatia and then it was the president of the first Dr. Francis Tudjman and that's the attitude we should all have together. We don't want to get along politically, but in the Homeland War in the trench, we didn't ask each other if you did it in partisan or Ustashas. And now what you're provoking for a few points is that sacrifice in the Homeland War. against criminal large-serb aggression [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj, thank you]] That's why I support starting a school. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] to safeguard the capabilities of the HV. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Bulj]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7038	Thank you very much. The apartment will be approved. Let's move on, Comrade Dretar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7039	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is the conflict that has arisen here just once again shows how much in fact and deep division is and does not agree on some of the basic things that the Homeland Movement considers to be the foundation of today's modern Croatian state, and of course from the struggle and sacrifice of Croatian defenders and all the victims of the Homeland War, thank God, comes today and the right for all of us to sit here, and here we fully agree. I agree with everyone who thinks and talks alike. So I am looking for a break on behalf of the Home Movement Club so that we can all calm down once again, and of course we are consulting within our club and deciding how we will proceed because it is evident that not only here in HS but also in the entire Croatian society on only one small trigger when we start talking about the Homeland War, so here I am also apologizing to Minister Banozic, who is here instead of starting a university, has to listen to these discussions. I believe he's got work to do, but we'll stop, we'll consult. The only thing I regret is that I can't apply for a break on behalf of your coalition partner, which is the Serbian Democratic Party, which apparently in Dr. A foreigner with a war criminal sees absolutely nothing questionable. I'm so sorry we didn't hear their voice here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7040	We're going to the next break, to the next request, the esteemed representative Ivana Posavec Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7041	I thank the esteemed president of HS. I ask Stanko for 10 minutes for the SDP club, and only for the reason that we try to return to this extremely important topic that we have today on the HS agenda that should determine the future of the Republic of Croatia, the future of our armed forces, and in the very sight of what NATO expects of us. Let me use this break in the SDP to remind all colleagues and colleagues that in 2000, HS brought the Homeland War Declaration. It is in this Declaration of Homeland War that all the views of all clubs and representatives of the then Parliament are clearly stated, and we are invited all together to protect the liquids of the Homeland War in the creation of this country and I do not think our views are unclear in this regard. So I would ask that in these ten minutes of rest, we all, in fact, repeat what we have brought together in the Declaration of the Homeland War and that we in some way respect what we agreed on many years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7042	I thank you, too. Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7043	Here's what I'm looking for and I'm joining all of these breaks. I'd say one of the goals of the Homeland War was to have a state and institutions following the laws. Here we have a proposal on the establishment of a university where we have big problems not following all the laws on the establishment of such institutions, so higher education laws, quality assurance laws in higher education, and that's what we need to talk about. Let's go back to that discussion, the Homeland War is behind us, we have a state, we have the institutions of this country and we start working and we move on to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7044	Thank you. I agree with the vast majority of what has been said and I would ask MPs and MPs to keep those things which are the foundation of the modern Croatian state, to take care of what they say. She also reminded her colleague Posavec Krivec of the Homeland War Declaration brought by HS and I ask you to take care of it. Let's take a break now, 10-20 to go. MEETING AT 10:10 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:23 A.M.]] Now it's time for a respected colleague, Puljak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7046	You got it. Thank you. Here are two questions. Here, so the Department of Defense is setting up a university. Your comment, shall we, in this way, open the way then for the Ministry of Health to establish a university on health, Ministry of Economy of the University of Economic Sciences, so whether it took a whole new university and another, in art. The 20th bill provides for the development of an education programme outside the defence system, so can you explain it a little bit, which means beyond the defence system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7047	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7048	So, transformation of Croatian Military University Dr. Franjo Tudjman at the University of Defence and Security,... that is one long-term process that will be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in stages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This stage has essentially been started before in collaboration with the civil universities in Zagreb and Split through study programmes of military engineering, military leadership and military management, or military shipping. What we have is to point out that in accordance with the needs of the University of Defence and Security will develop uniform units of priority-separated military professional subjects tactics, armed systems, military history, command, surveillance, and those who are, therefore, related to study programs such as mathematics, physics, mechanics, statistics, which are conducted at civilian universities, will be in cooperation with them still, continue this, so, so, this leader, is it? As for this part still related to interdisciplinary studies, a postgraduate study of Homeland Security will be conducted in cooperation with civil colleges, universities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7049	Comrade Zurovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7050	There you go. Thank you. Well, dear Minister, welcome to the most expensive show in the Republic of Croatia. I saw that the Faculty of Political Sciences had a lot of criticism about this establishment of a university. I'm also interested in the extent to which you've accepted these criticisms. I'm also wondering, how much is the cost assessment of this whole process that's going to happen? And on the other hand, they can join other objections here that were related to initial accreditation that didn't have to go through. Also, this Law on Scientific Activity, as well as the Law on Quality in Higher Education, how does it not have to be satisfied? And as for these other criticisms, here we are living in a democratic society where virtually everyone can express their views, I hope that's not a big problem. So here, everyone can say their agreement or not agreeing about the Homeland War, and on the other hand, I think we have to respect each other in the end. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7051	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7052	So, as I mentioned, it's about a period that's going to be over a long time, meaning some kind of plan, over 10 years, to complete the process. We are now in a phase where we are working on programmes that have been achieved in collaboration with the already mentioned Zagreb or Split University. As far as the Faculty of Philosophy is concerned, they also participated, in part and also, in this section that is related to homeland security. Of course there are people who expected more and who will comment on it on the part of a professional approach in their own way in order to create some other assumptions and that's okay. What is important is that this law is in line with the law, already mentioning this section relating to accreditation, meaning it will refer to programmes when they experience their full story on teaching staff to implement. With this, the MORH and the OSRH have already started preparing such staff, and they have also funded and scholarshipd one part within the ODRH, in particular 21 persons, i.e. MORH 49 persons who are in postgraduate doctoral care. a study that will take over the college in the future. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7053	My fellow Uncle, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7054	... President of HS, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] I believe that anyone well-intentioned, if he wishes well to our homeland, will support the adoption of this law, and also, if he knows, can, wash, will affect the amendments to the core itself, or make the law the better, the better, the better, the more implemented. Next year we mark the 30th anniversary of the creation of our army that was created in the Homeland War, it was created from police structures, first as the units of special purpose of the MUP, then the Assembly of the National Guard and then grew into the Croatian Army. I believe that today's challenges, such as coronary virus epidemics, cyber attacks, climate change requires our army to be educated, trained, equipped, able to deal with all these challenges, and also, all other systems Homeland security. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7055	Here's your answer. Here's the minister's answer. Answer, Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7056	So preparations for the transformation of this university began with a study of the transformation of the Croatian Military University, which,... There have already been programmes for the last 30 years, and this transformation itself through a high-school and scientific research facility in 2012, after which we also had the adoption of a DPR in 2015 to 2024, in which many programmes that support the development of necessary scientific staff were launched, as well as subjects, that is, all programmes that have been developed within the Croatian Military University. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is needed to point out, that this transformation itself will contain all other programs relating to the development of officer, or officer acts, namely this part which will be new and new to the Military School so far, will be, above all, this part that I have said to graduate and postgraduate studies on the development of research and science, which is what is important to us at this time for the university, and these existing programs that are in who are now.../incomprehensible/... at the Croatian Military School continue. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7057	Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7058	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I will use this replica of mine to express my satisfaction with the initiative for the establishment of the University of Defence and Security, and I will certainly support this bill. Of course, the establishment of this university will provide a strong affirmation of Croatia and military doctrines and military skills right in South East Europe and this university will certainly provide a quality basis for the development of military skills as science and certainly this is a good basis for Croatia as a member of the EU and NATO in this part of Southeast Europe to retake primate in military science and doctrine. In this context, it is necessary to make it clear that this university is primarily in the interest of Croatian society and in the interest of the future of the Croatian Army which has also defended and freed Croatia in the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7059	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7060	Thank you for your comment. Namely, it's me, I'd like to look back here at you because I know you know for sure, because you're coming from the system of science, and that's just this way of accreditation that's being mentioned here. Namely, through the status change of credited study programmes it is one of the initial lending methods where it has already been achieved at several universities in Croatia, specifically in the establishment of the University of the North, the University of Slavonski Brod, where the procedure is generally applied to the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, where the initial accreditation procedure is regulated which is in this case. Where the minister in charge of higher education is in charge of acting.../incomprehensible/... initiates certain procedures for reaccrediting the university and thus we find a solution to this situation that we mention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7061	Now let's go to the replica of my colleague, Deura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7062	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I thank you first of all for the preservation and ability of Croatian soldiers, Croatian Army, for sure that this university is one value throughout all these 30 years that has been going on in the Croatian Army since the Homeland War. Today we have serious leaders coming out of ordinary centres where we had in the Homeland War, where with the first Croatian president of a strong Croatian soldier, these are the serious leaders who can carry all the tasks. Surely today, through homeland security and through all the training centres that we have from the university, one security is certainly one economically strong Croatia will give what is most important, but it is certain that the university gives a future to a young man, a Croatian soldier who is a perspective and a strengthening of all our borders and the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7063	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7064	Here I thank you for the question, i.e. the replica, namely the very well-known army system, you know that all who have passed a certain system of education or passed through existing programs, can neither be all commanders nor are they born to be branch commanders. In this case we, through a quality approach to human potential, through research and development, are getting a new dimension that will definitely reflect on the defence industry and on this development of the economy. Namely, and also make it easier for the Croatian military when we use a particular technique at this time which may experience a new transformation precisely in such situations. We have had excellent examples in the military, where the Croatian Army here and in the beginning of the Homeland War participated in the development of the first drones on which we can now develop further, these are various ballistic centres, various information tools, radar systems, all that can come from these existing programs and that is the value of an additional study with of course this command chamber that will develop everywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7065	And the last replica of my colleague Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7066	Thank you very much. As I said, I support the distinguished ministers that the Croatian Army has new, new knowledge, new abilities. However, I ask the question why this law no longer uses the abilities that were from the Homeland War that the Croatian soldier, the Croatian officer and the officer who must be transferred. Will there be military scientific personnel, will they create him and that's the key question? Otherwise it looks like it will remain a condition, it is my objection, to the same as the Croatian Military University. So I repeat again. Are you going to create a military scientific chamber based on the Homeland War, the knowledge and abilities that we have in other world analyses and universities of military learning, and in American such as our magnificent Operation Storm, otherwise if we don't actually stop it, we've put the status quo, we haven't done anything, and do you have to comment on this Article 4 where the provisions of the Higher University Act shall not be exceeded. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7067	Thanks, buddy Bull. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7068	So you yourself have offered a part of the answer, namely I have stressed that the Ministry of Defence has scholarshipd a certain part of the officers, the officers means who participated and who participated in the Homeland War and who are participating in the lecture of certain items at the Croatian Military School, but to participate further in this study programme that I have already mentioned several times you must have a certain scientific and educational knowledge. What we have at this moment is a part of the people who have already doctored, who have gone into the scientific-teaching of the doctor, the extraordinary professor, the regular professor, and who will leave in the future are people who, with their experience in the Homeland War, have experience that they have already had from the transferred items that they have listened to or taught within the Croatian Military School in this case, are moving on. Definitely that this transfer of knowledge relating to the Homeland War is appreciated at other universities and I see another advantage of setting up this university means where there will be an exchange of experiences in collaboration with other universities. which are in some other countries. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7069	We've come to an end with replicas, now I'd like to invite the committee's rapporteurs to take the floor if they want. A colleague called Bedeković, president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7070	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The HS Committee on Education, Science and Culture considered this, a proposal for this law at the first session held on 23 September 2020. and the committee is in accordance with Article. 97. The Rules of Procedure of HS discussed this issue as a parent working body. The adoption of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security will create a framework for the establishment of universities as a high education but also scientific research institutions for the needs of the defence system and home security systems, and the University of Defence and Security will enable the education of future HV officers, as well as employees in other bodies whose jobs and responsibilities are related to Homeland Security, and the transformation of Croatia's currently existing Military University, Dr. Franjo Tuđman rests at the university on 2 strategic documents, on a national security strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2017. and in the long-term plan for the development of the armed forces for the period 2015 to 2024. which was adopted in December 2014 The debate concluded that the proposed law of the University of Defence and Security will take over already accredited university pre-graduate, graduate and integrated studies currently carried out in cooperation with the University of Zagreb and Split, and the process of this transformation will take place gradually, while the dynamics of the implementation of the transfer of student, study programmes will be determined by a dynamic plan between the Ministry of Defence and the University of Zagreb and between the Ministry of Defence and the University of Split, of course after it is accepted by both universities. The proposed law will regulate issues of the name, seat, founder of the university, the activities of the governing bodies, their jurisdiction, the status of students, the conditions for enrolment, as well as the property and financing of the university, as well as employees of the university and the exercise of supervision over the legality of the work and general acts of the university, as well as the arrangements and conditions of implementation of the activity until the start of the university's work. What is important to highlight, quality assurance will be regulated in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, and if it is within the competence of the Agency for Science and Higher Education and the relevant Ministry of Science and Education. In the discussion itself, most committee members supported the adoption of the bill by assessing that its implementation of pro futuro would create a legislative framework for the establishment of a university as a high educational and scientific research institution, thus improving the needs of the defence system and also the home security systems, and in this sense the members of the board agreed that the establishment of a defence and security university would create great opportunities in the field of military and defence science if, of course, it was intended to meet the highest standards of military and defence security. In order to improve this legislative proposal, it is proposed to be in Article. Article 15(3) of the Law provides for equal representation of students in university management bodies in accordance with the solutions set out in Article 3 of the Law. 58. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education is also proposed to supplement the Article. 14th proposal laying down the competence of the University Council in accordance with the provisions of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 60. Law on scientific activity and higher education. It is also the opinion of individual committee members that the adoption of the law is not in line with the regulations governing the field of science and higher education, in particular with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, and the Law on quality assurance in science and higher education and on this issue has been discussed on the board and, in this respect, it is pointed out, the pointed observation regarding the absence of the initial accreditation process, which would prevent the establishment and operation of a university as a public university based on the provisions of the Law on the provision of quality and science in higher education, and also in the opinion of individual members of the Committee of the Bill of Law is not in line with Article. 54. Law on scientific activity and higher education. After both during the debate and with the reasons of the motions, which were representatives of the Ministry of Defence, it is evident that all the criteria and conditions for the establishment of the University of Defence and Security prescribed by Article are respected. 54. Law on scientific activity and higher education, bearing in mind that Dr. Franjo Tuđman currently implements 7 university pre-graduate, graduate, integrated study programmes, as well as a postgraduate specialist programme for the needs of the home security system, and these programmes are implemented in more The scientific fields and fields and these study programmes, thank you very much, here I am finishing, are already initially accredited, and the minister in charge of education will launch the readjustment procedure within 6 months. [[Intruder: Comrade Bedeković, please slowly bring the end]] And after the debate, the committee voted mostly 8 for and 2 against, suggested that HS conclude that a proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security should be adopted. Of course, all objections and proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7071	Thank you. I would like once again to ask the committee's rapporteur that the proportionally shortened time we have for the representatives' clubs is that they also make sure that their exposure is not the longest of those because they are not defined in time. I'm opening a debate now. The first is the club of HDZ representatives and respected counterpart Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7072	Mr. President-in-Office of the SS, respected MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary-in-Office with his associates. In May 1991, the Croatian Army was founded, as someone mentioned next year we will celebrate that round anniversary. So, the armed force of a young democratic state that was on the verge of independence and independence, and immediately at the beginning faced with the armed aggression of large Serb politics. The months following the assembly of the National Guard Assembly at the Stadio in Kranjčević Street in Zagreb, and all of us who witnessed this little heart play when we remember those days were marked by bloody fighting and suffering of civilians, members of the National Guard Assembly and police. During the fall of the year, the Croatian Army's Chief Staff was formed, subordinated command and troops were formed, and thus the Croatian Army was given an organisational form of armed force in increasing its capacity to resist armed Serb aggression against the Republic of Croatia, defence of its territory and citizens, or later in liberating occupied territories. This short historical introduction would explain the context in which in October 1991 the training and education process of young Croatian army officers was launched by conducting officers' courses in Varazdin, Zagreb and Samobor. These courses grew up several months later in the Officer's Centre in Zagreb, and already in January '93. The officers' centre becomes the Croatian Military School. This beginning of the development of education for the needs of the Croatian military was the trail of the Croatian state leadership policy, which decided that the Croatian military is developing as an integral part of Croatian society, and ensures social and social inclusion and career development in the military and civilian environment for officers and officers of the Croatian army. The continuation of this military education orientation resulted in the development of a scholarship programme for members of the Croatian Army to acquire higher education, and in 1992 he started in collaboration with the University of Zagreb a pilot training programme for the needs of Croatian Air Force. It's '97. The first military pilots trained according to this model entered the Croatian army. Afterwards, the programme of cadet as a form of university education for other and tribes of Croatian armies began, and in 2014 the university programmes, military leadership, military engineering were accredited together with the University of Zagreb and in 2017 the Military Maritimeity together with the University of Split. As a logical sequence of this development of education for the needs of the Croatian military, a procedure for the adoption of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security is launched, creating assumptions for the transformation of the Croatian Military University into a modern university of defence and security that will fully take its place in the Academy Community of the Republic of Croatia. Transformation of Croatian Military University Dr. Franjo Tuđman in a highly educational, scientific and research institution for the needs of the education system is fully in line with the strategic guidelines and National Security Strategy and the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2015-2024. This law also creates key conditions for further development of the capabilities of the Croatian military, Homeland Security and military skills as a science, especially scientific and research work in the area of defence, as also mentioned in the 2017 National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. It should be noted that we do not have an institution dealing with scientific research in the field of military science and the University of Defence and Security will provide a basis for the development of military sciences or for the continuation of the development of scientific learning potential in accordance with the guidelines of the long-term development plan 2015-2024. Here some colleagues have tried to ironify whether this university will not become a university of medicine, whether or not I know some other colleges become a university, etc. It should be made clear that the University of Defence and Security will not have colleges or will implement study programmes that are not for the purposes of the defence system or in relation to homeland security, and that there will be no competition for other universities in the Republic of Croatia, although other universities have especially given special support to Zagreb and Split for the draft of the university, they have given and will give all possible support from now on. Likewise, some were in the first reading, and then on the board tried to show that university as if it were some kind of fiction. Such universities exist in a number of countries. We can mention the U.S. National Defence University, many more know and have heard more about West Point, but there is a National Defence University in Poland, as well as is called only at the Polish University, there is in the Czech Republic of Brno such a university, Hungary has even two such universities, that I do not talk about countries outside Europe such as India, Pakistan, Malaysia and many other countries. All these universities are primarily under the supervision of the Ministry of Defence of those countries, and of course education ministries also participate and support these programmes. The University of Defence and Security will long-term cover the entire educational vertical related to military and educational science and skills, without entering any of the other public universities in the field of action. And that should be made clear that some strange interpretations would not be repeated here as they may already be heard. In the long term, it also plans to develop a post-graduate doctoral study in the interdisciplinary field of the scientific field of defence and security intelligence science and skills, which would speed up, but also preserve the development of military sciences and scientific and scientific teaching staff in the long term. Why is it important, too, to be a university? Enough that Croatian Military School is Dr. Franjo Tudjman had limited access to EU funds, i.e. he participated in very few applications for EU funds projects, 4 applications from which 3 were successful, because it is only possible.../incomprehensible/... to be in partner status and could not be in the status of project holder. Now that it becomes a university, it will be able to.../incomprehensible/... report projects, for funding from EU funds in the capacity of the holder and majority user of these funds, which will be used for the development of new study programmes, cadet practices, classroom equipment, laboratories and specialized cabinets, of which I do not have to speak. It mentioned much, as a controversial, alleged disputed, alleged issue of accreditation. Therefore, the initial accreditation process of each new university, including for this University of Defence and Security, is prescribed by the law establishing,.../incomprehensible/... quality assurance in science and higher education, which speaks of meeting the necessary conditions for positive accreditation to carry out higher education activities. In this case, the main conditions of accreditation, the contract with other universities for study programmes, the founding act, the relevant space and equipment, the financial guarantee, as well as initial accreditation will not be implemented because it is not about new programmes and therefore the proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security prescribes accreditation through the status change of accredited study programmes. The method of accreditation through the status change of accredited study programmes is one of the methods of initial accreditation. This has already been applied in the laws establishing the University of the North and the University of Slavonski Brod, which this Parliament has passed and no one has ever objected at that time. Interestingly, they are now rebelling when it comes to the university regarding defence and national security. These laws state that the same item as the University of Defence and Security, I quote, does not apply the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education to which the initial accreditation procedure is regulated. The previous proposal for a Status Change Act for accredited study programmes is.../incomprehensible/... a special agreement with universities in Zagreb and Split, and dynamics and methods of transfer of study programmes It will be determined by a specific dynamic plan. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7073	Thank you, colleague Reiner. Let's move on, Association Club of Independent Lists Bridges and esteemed colleague Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7074	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. What is our Croatian army? The Croatian military is primarily the most trusted institution, as many as 61% of citizens trust the military, with only 8% of citizens, and the question is whether the Parliament believes so much after these latest developments. Who's the Croatian soldier? A good soldier is the one who owns both military knowledge and war art. A soldier is not just a profession, it's a call, a real soldier is not bought or sold and he's willing to give his life for national interests. In this sense, the speciality of Croatian soldiers and our army has a historical experience of war. That's our military capital. It is particularly important today in the world of security threats, threats, terrorism in the first place, and the role of our army should be seen in the wider context of the EU and NATO. Interdisciplinary scientific research is particularly important for the prevention of these security threats and threats, the establishment of a national and military strategy and the preparation and implementation of military operations and missions. In this context, the transformation of the accreditation of the Croatian Military University also contributes significantly to civil military relations. After this brief introduction let me move to the metric. In the light of this law, we find several basic arguments that show the intensity of this law. In this regard, the following findings are pointed out. The law is expected, a framework for the establishment of a university. The law allows the development of war science. Education at that university is intended exclusively for security personnel. The HV should also be developed as an integral part of Croatian society. Respecting all the specificities of the military sector, and thus military education which is in the service of the security of our country, or state, we ask whether this law has fulfilled its purpose on the trail of what has been said. However, it is immediately important to stress that this issue is not intended to destroy or halt the development of science and education in the military sector, but rather because we are aware of the quality and importance that our army has, but also the educated staff that already owns, as well as the institutional predisposition. The aim of this issue is to help shed light on all the doubts about the establishment of a university and thus to encourage the development of military science that will be competitive at global level. This isn't just a floscule. As someone who had the honour of participating as an invited lecturer at the Ban Josip Jelačić War School at the Croatian Military School Dr. Francis Tudjman, I can say that I witnessed firsthand the quality of the organization, but also the intellectual capacities of our highest officers, as well as their colleagues from abroad. Because the less familiar the public may be, the more involved they are in our educational military system, the more attractive they are to officers and outside of our beautiful. Before answering these questions, let me say something about what military school education looks like, so that we can even get to where the problem is and what we do with military science and education. The first question is who is teaching our soldiers, it has been almost 30 years since military education started in Croatia, and it has not remained on its own, produced its own scientific staff that are able and allowed to be the bearers of the study programs that they themselves created. At present, as many as 11 members of the University of Zagreb and Croatian Military School Dr. Franjo Tudjman. Unfortunately, with respect for the teaching and scientific contribution of colleagues from other universities, this does not bear witness to the breadth of military education, but it is the result of the total lack of independence of the military school. So today, for example, the Faculty of Political Sciences can ask a question, whose content will be studies, teachers and colleges. Simplified as they state themselves if the Council of the Faculty of Political Sciences contests the engagement of its employees at the new university it could be left without, for example, a quarter of the norm hours. The second question is, what do our soldiers learn? 8 of the 13 subjects whose teachers of the said university are already accredited classes of pre-graduate studies of politology. Someone cynical might wonder, do we educate soldiers in political science or political scientists in the military? Some have objected, and that is why I say we were heading towards militarisation of education, and no one has noticed that we have so far had politicization of the military. In addition, it is possible that boredom without any military knowledge has educated the military and has been crucially responsible for its scientific improvement. Can philosophers educate doctors? I may be able to teach bioethics, but anatomy certainly can't. And now we can explain where there is a problem that this law does not solve but seems to be cemented by the existing state. Since they do not have their staff or programs, the study programmes so far are connected with the university, that as is said here these programs are already being implemented, but the Croatian Military School is not their institution and we do not see here a sign to allow military personnel to continue to study and take over these programs. From now on, since these same study programmes are being undertaken, the study plans are also being drawn together by the teaching staff, which raises a legitimate question as to what will happen to their coefficients, jobs and educational processes on their home institutions. Or if they continue to teach at both institutions whether we really have a new university or we strengthen the existing state of an unsustainable, hybrid institution of a military school, which actually prevents the growth of military science and education and is neither trying to achieve the ideal of a Humbolt university that involves uniting research and the autonomy of higher education institutions. In this attempt, after almost 30 years of sleep, the urgent and under-thinking satisfaction of prestigious and pompous forms of university, and the neglect of the content itself, is being skipped for new institutions by the key accreditation and re-accreditation process. It also devises the supervision of the university's work, the design of a university council, which calls into question the autonomy of Article 25. In this regard, the key question is why not all these years, especially in 2014 at the time of the development of university study programmes for the Croatian Army, the process of transforming the military university began in a higher education and scientific research institution and directed towards accreditation of military school. This would also ensure the process of developing a military scientific frame of importance and from the point of view of the teaching process. Moreh would thus be in a position of human responsibility, and today we wouldn't even be discussing this law. Now I'm going to go back to those questions. Do we even need a framework to set up a university? Is this law necessary if the existing law allows the military school to be an accredited component of the university? Was it necessary to amend the Law on Science and Higher Education for security institutions to be defined in a similar way as a scientific and artistic academy? Does this law really enable the development of military science? The university is not autonomous or independent from Zagreb and Split University. Also, in what way will scientific and teaching staff be evaluated? Military laws prescribe early retirement, I'll remind you, under Article 4. The Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials who regulate the reduction of the right to retirement, so that they can retire in the 50s because they are the most scientifically fertile of years, especially in this case for military scientists who can achieve teaching and scientific titles. The transformation of a military university into a component of a university or according to this law, a university without military scientific human potential, is actually an impossible mission. If education is intended exclusively for safety personnel, then the university may also conduct other university study programmes available to other candidates outside the defence system for the purposes of the defence system and the home security system. If they are allowed to perform them, why they cannot later compete on the labour market, whether it is discrimination of students or placing them in an unequal position of other university components. It is crucial that the Croatian Army will develop as an integral part of Croatian society if its university and its science are not subject to the same criteria as other institutions in Croatian society and if it is avoided that military school becomes a regular university and a component of the university. In the words of your representative Miroslav Tudjman, the agreement between the university and the Ministry of Defence is a one-way route if it leaves only the university to care for scientific and educational infrastructure in the area of national security. This bill of law continues that practice. We believe that the military university must be the parent for its science and bearer of that story rather than for others to make military programs. The basic programmes of the profession should be carried out by the military because military knowledge and education are growing the strength of the Croatian Army. There is no Croatian state without an army, and there is no army without military science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7075	Let's go to the next debate now. It's a respected colleague, Damir Bakic, a Green-Left bloc representative club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7076	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Art. 48. The Act on Scientific Activity and Military, Higher Education, says higher universities for the purposes of military and police education are established either as structural units of competent, competent ministries or in accordance with the conditions provided for by the law, the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. In this case, this is Wednesday. So we want a public university, and that means we have to follow all relevant laws. First of all, the Act on scientific activity and military, higher education, the Law on quality assurance in science and higher education, the Regulation on the content of the licence, and the conditions for issuing a permit to carry out high education activities that we must pass the formal procedure of initial accreditation. It's not easy, there's a lot of documents to go through and prove that we meet certain conditions, human, programming, and everything else. Art. In the first century of this law, however, explicity violates and says, we do not intend to follow the laws but do not apply to this university the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, which is regulated by the initial accreditation procedure. So how do you start this University of Defense and Security? It writes two points more, in the same first article in St. 2. It is almost metaphysically established, this university is founded so that it still does not exist with some curricula currently being implemented, implemented and then it begins to exist. Oh, yeah. It is not clear and clear to the legislator who is in art. In section 4, the minister said that within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, he would initiate the procedure for recrediting the university in accordance with the Law on Quality Insurance and Higher Education. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Recreditation, which never occurred. And that's not all. Law on scientific activity and higher education in art. 54th says, the university is an institution that conducts studies in at least 2 scientific or, or artistic areas, areas are like natural, social, humane, biomedical, etc., each one has its own fields, e.g. Math, physics, chemistry. It's a panorama of scientific research activities. Two scientific areas are therefore wanted so that we can talk about the university. There's only one thing here, and it's interdisciplinary, and it's not entirely, but only one of its fields. Box No. 8th wheel. 09, military defense and security intelligence and skills. That's the way it is right now. This institution that wants to become a university is currently deficiting both in people and in scientific teaching, in people in scientific class and in content so that they can qualify as a university. Namely, so far, and I want to highlight otherwise very successful studies are carried out in strong and broad cooperation with the University of Split and especially with the University of Zagreb and it is excellent that it is so. But the University of Zagreb has a decision on teaching, the teacher of the University of Zagreb at other higher universities and this decision in its first article says that teachers of the University of Zagreb cannot be holders or performers of colleges in the process of accreditation of other higher education programmes. Art. 4. p. says, work outside the University of Zagreb can be up to 1/3 full of nominal teaching burdens. That is why the University of Defence and Security cannot count on these teachers in the initial accreditation process and therefore cannot give evidence that they meet the necessary conditions and therefore that bizarre provision. 1st century 4th said no initial accreditation procedure would be applied because we would not have passed the initial accreditation procedure. So we came to a situation where we certainly would not want to be ourselves, a council, to pass a law that already says in its first article that it is exempt from other relevant laws. It is already stated enough to conclude that we cannot support such a law. And yet I will mention some other circumstances that I may later have the opportunity to look more closely at. There are other provisions of this law that disagree with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, e.g. the question of jurisdiction to adopt the status. Next, in Art. The 18th century of the proposed law is said to be directed to the University of Defence and Security by members of the armed forces simply by the decision of the superiors, without verifying the necessary qualifications. Art. The 18th century says that the salaries of defence and security employees are determined among others by law governing the service in the armed forces. Does this mean that we want to establish a public university whose employees and salaries will differ from other professors, other public universities? The university anatomy although the legal and constitutional category is not mentioned in this law. And it's important to mention this here because this law provides for very specific and close ties to the sea. And finally, I'm going to look back at the preface, and it says there's no need to provide additional resources to implement this law. The reason is that these additional resources are unnecessary because the funds for conducting the studies are already provided. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, the means of conducting studies that are already ongoing are of course secured and it is good that it is, but that does not mean that the means to implement this law are not necessary. We well know what a university is, we well know that the organization, establishment and operation of the university requires a lot of funds and writes in the preface of the law that the establishment of a university does not require additional funds is in its own way an insult to common sense. Moreover, there is an article in this law that explicitly states that only a month after this law has been passed, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will ensure the status and salary of the Rector, the interim rector of this university, that I do not enter further details. All the above, I think it clearly shows that it is not possible to pass this law and we at the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club will vote against the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7077	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of the Homeland Movement in the name of which the respected representative Karolina Vidović Kristo will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7078	Ladies and gentlemen. Before us is the proposal for a law on the University of Defence and Security of Dr. Francis Tudjman. We all know that the way to freedom was bloody and we are aware that the Croatian state is indeed a generational project of the Croatian people for which we have endured the sacrifice for centuries. Freedom as the highest human condition in this world's life is an invaluable value to be known and preserved. In this context, defence and national security are facing constant challenges in a world that is changing at a high speed and sometimes opponents of freedom are ahead of democratic systems. Military universities have a tradition in our close countries and it is also necessary to look at the experience of these countries in building such scientific institutions. Since it is the first reading of this bill, formal and legal indifference in this bill will be highlighted as a club through amendments. In this presentation, I'm only going to set two examples. The Constitution guarantees the autonomy of the university means that it stands in the Constitution, that the university decides independently about its structure and operation in accordance with the law. So only a legislator can limit their autonomy and only by law. In order to mutually recognise diplomas and academic achievements, a European space of higher education has been created to protect independent agencies carrying out accreditation and re-accreditation for the purpose of external independent quality assurance. Proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security Dr. Franje Tuđmana Art. 1st century 4 excludes the application of the Law on quality assurance in science and higher education. A group of those who want to create a new university do not want to be initially valued. This can only be sought by one who does not have scientific and academic achievements, biography and does not meet the conditions for carrying out scientific and scientific teaching activities. Avoiding accreditation harms the system because they inaugurate the rule that someone can be excluded from the Agency for Science and Higher Education in the system of higher education and worse, make diplomas of future students worthless anywhere, except perhaps in the Croatian Ministry of Defence. Another example is the new university, not the new study programmes, but the almost violent decomposition of contracts that the Government has concluded with universities in Split and Zagreb and the foundations they have started and are derived from the university study programmes that are the holders of the two universities. It's illegal. The 27th century 1st and 2nd draft laws requires the rectors of universities in Split and Zagreb to propose to their Senates the transfer of study programmes to a new university. Part of the profession also believes that there is no need to establish another university. But let's get back to the basics. The experiences we had with the Military School give us a sense of great concern because there are things that are unacceptable. What I'm about to say is not only unacceptable but amazing. Before I present these amazing facts, I will give an example of the German Military University, Bundeswehr Universität in Munich. Namely, the German Military Intelligence Service MAD, Militärischer Abschirmdienst systematically protects the university, so several years ago it found that individual students along with certain members of scientific staff are close to a certain neo-Nazi group, and it is clear that it is unacceptable for civil service employees to sympathise and practically co-operate with organisations that oppose the constitutional order of the state. All these participants are excluded from the university and within a very short period of time. Now let's look at the experience at the Croatian Military University Dr. Francis Tudjman. One of the lecturers of the Military University is a testified opponent of Croatian independence and state, Dejan Jovic, a man who claimed in his political pamphlets that the error of Yugoslav rulers was what allowed the Croatian language and the declaration of Croats as a separate people. The man went so far that he also claimed for a referendum on independence that there was no credibility, although the referendum had absolute international acceptance. At the same time, this man defends fascists, so-called fascists. SAO Krajina. Because Jovic claims that Croatia has not treated the landscape Serbs properly. For Jovic, war criminal Milan Martic is the legitimate representative of Serbs with whom Croatia should have sought a settlement. And in order for the absurd to be even greater, many so far undemanded information according to which one of the lecturers at the Military School is Dr. Franjo Tudjman was also the son of JNA unit commanders who directly bombed and occupied Vukovar and are directly responsible for the crimes in Ovcara and for ethnic cleansing in eastern Slavonia. It's hard for me to believe that, too, but given the experience of the current and past government and their failures and actions, it wouldn't surprise me. I want to make it clear here that I reject it, and I will always reject that children are responsible for the sins of their parents. However, this is a military institution, and Serbia unfortunately has not given up its aspirations on Croatian territory to this day, and what is worst, R. Serbia has not yet returned the cultural material goods that they stole during the aggression, has not yet shed light on the fate of the missing Croats, who have not yet paid war reparations. In such circumstances, the son of a unit commander who committed all these crimes, paying to teach at the Croatian Military University is unacceptable, insane, offensive and security questionable. Future Croatian Military University Dr. Franjo Tudjman must have security protection in place and such or similar cases shall not be repeated. He knew that U.S. military schools were studying the military's regular action of Storm because it was carried out brilliantly from a military point of view. It testifies to the wonders that the Croatian military has succeeded in a short period of time during the state's defence of Serbia's, Montenegro's and JNA's aggressions in the field of military knowledge, with a special emphasis on the structure, military tactics and physical readiness. This is the period from the first lineup of the Croatian army on 28 May 1991 to the first major Maslenica military action already in January '93. and to the Light and Storm, which has been unmarked the success of an army in just four years. For this reason, one of the aspirations of the future Croatian Military University of Dr. Francis Tudjman must be working with related institutions in our close countries. It must have an international character so that, as a state, we, through science and areas of defence and security, can take up our deserved position on the European and world map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7079	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of IP, Smart and GLAS, on behalf of which will speak respected representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7080	I thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is therefore before us, a bill establishing a new university that would unite the study programmes that are currently being implemented at universities in Zagreb and Split. At the beginning of the process, let me tell you that we are not at issue, so no one is slowing down the need for military officers, countries that are in the EU and NATO to therefore have adequate higher education, quality higher education for people who work in security services, in defence is really very important and necessary. It is not disputed, therefore, that such a, we know that such universities exist in other different countries in various forms and we do not actually degrade this idea, but it seems to us that this bill, as it was adopted here in the Assembly, it itself, as a proposal, actually degrades that idea. Because there are therefore several groups of problems with the proposed establishment of the university, they were also discussed in the previous assembly and during the public debate, but it appears that they were not accepted and not incorporated into this legislative proposal. This process tries to circumvent legal procedures that regulate higher education, so the Act on Scientific Activity, higher education, which in art. 48 says in 4th grade schools for military and police education purposes, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall establish according to the conditions provided for by this law or as body-building units of competent ministries. Also in art. The 54th century 1 says that the university is an institution that establishes and conducts university studies in at least 2 scientific and artistic areas and in a number of fields. So we don't see here which are two different scientific areas, so we seem to have only one and that one, its field. Therefore, all provisions governing the issue, the appropriate quality of the new institution, in accordance with the Quality Insurance Act, in ensuring quality in science and higher education, are bypassed. In the very proposal of the Law, Art. 1st century 4. It is explicitly stated that the procedure for the establishment of universities is not subject to the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, which is regulated by the initial accreditation procedure. So we have a bill that says in the article, explicitly, we will not follow the law. So, that article alone is enough not to support such a proposal, and here we are really asking that something be done by the second reading, and this proposal is updated. So, the following is not clear at all who will and how will teach at the new university, in which these people will be called? So there's not even a proper human frame. The fact that people who teach at the University of Zagreb and Split are now taking part in the implementation of study programmes, therefore it cannot be easily transferred to a new institution. People who work there will certainly not move into a new institution, nor will intellectual rights be given to their lectures. Therefore, questions are asked about the forms of their engagement, additional burdens, special permits to work outside the university, so this whole percentage, the procedure will be more administratively complex, and will ultimately depend on the permits of the college councils. So it's not really clear how in the future, here I quote the University of Defence and Security, will take over already accredited university undergraduate, graduate, integrated studies. Besides, here I was asking the question of the minister, in an article. The 20th draft law also provides for the development of an education programme outside the defence system. What does that mean outside the defense system? Although we do here all the time, does it mention this is a university of military science, but here's what this article means? In fact, as it seems to us, it runs some kind of parallelism, a conflict of jurisdiction, whether I don't know how to establish some kind of idea you're going to have psychology at this university or these various programs even though here it's repeatedly said there won't be any competition, but here's what this means in this article. 20? When I said if the university is under the Ministry of Defence, I know so in different countries it is, there are universities that are also under their Ministry of Defence, but here's the boredom the universities were founded by the Ministry of Science, whether the road will open now, so the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Economy and various other ministries will have their own, be the founders of some universities. And finally, it is said, here it is already mentioned here that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. It's just not true. So it's impossible to set up a facility like this, an entire university, without the need to secure additional funds. These funds that are currently reserved for study programmes will certainly not be enough for this kind of thing so that this one, and this article and this explanation are not true. So, high-school professional staff in security and defense is very important, it's necessary, so something like this whole idea is actually positive. However, it deserves to be organized in accordance with existing laws that define higher education, to respect all procedures and all regulations and therefore, please do not degrade this whole idea with such a bad proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7081	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sanja Radolovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7082	I thank the chairman for the word given, colleagues and fellow MPs. So we also had the first reading of the bill in the 9th Assembly of HS. More or less here today than any club we've heard so the same problem. I would just as well warn that apparently some colleagues and colleagues from certain clubs have read an old phonogram with the last calling for reading this assembly because it is art. The 20th law in the new reading, the first bill of law we got, has changed. What, however, is not in line with what is being done. The 20th of this new bill has changed, which now states that the university can also implement lifelong education programmes, which has not changed, so e-consultation has been carried out. So, we must warn here, I must warn on behalf of the SDP Club that the document that has been given to us parliamentary representatives to debate, and also later to vote, is actually against the legal and anti-constitutional categories if we look at further provisions of university autonomy. So I would really consider maybe pulling this out of the process, once again meeting the Legislative Committee because we've been listening here today to the chairman of the board that she's done this nicely, but she forgot to tell us that we've actually got a lattice from the document, not a lattery because SDP doesn't support the development of defence and security, although under our authority 2014. are and initiate these university study programs, but because we are standing before us, repeating, an illegal act that we have received for adoption. The document we got, I have to say, would better put this lawyer on the stand than what we got here today. But let us take a turn from what is actually controversial and what is against the law. As we have already had the opportunity to hear today, the legal framework itself requires that a university in 2 scientific areas be implemented. We have only one here, so already, starting from that, this is not in line with the very legislative framework that is in force in the field of science and higher education. As regards therefore the staff of the conduct of the studies programmes themselves, we had objections from the very University of Zagreb, which is actually the holder of one of the study programs, from the component of the Faculty of Political Sciences and should and it is important to stress that the Faculty of Political Sciences in Zagreb currently carries some 1500 of the 3,000 contact norms that perform them, so lecturers, people in scientific teaching there. What I would also say to the shadow, therefore, of the whole process of passing this law, is the relation of the Senate and the university council. So at all civilian universities, you know who runs the university, and that's the Senate, while the university council is some kind of supervisory body. Here again, we have the reverse situation, where it is proposed that the University Council be the one who manages the university, being cunning about reading, so in the previous Parliament's session, it changed that now a lot of things are being brought down here to the statutes of the university, so we as parliamentary representatives actually don't know what we're voting for today, because for all of the things that have been given observations in public consultation, it has been cleverly done to put a provision that any further and more of this will be settled on the statutes of the university that will later be passed. So I don't have to even say that it stands in the transitional and final provisions of the law to impose, be careful, it is up to the University of Zagreb and the University of Split that they transfer the study programmes of their holders to a new university within 60 days. Well, I mean, I'm not a lawyer, but I'm an economist, a science doctor, I have called a lecturer, and I've been running a few years of quality office at a pulse university, so it's very discreet, and I'm telling you that this one is submitted to a constitutional assessment, this law would fall very easily so that I call on the ruling once again to pull this out of the procedure, to respect the Croatian Parliament's institution and to give us the document as it is, how does it look like developing a segment of defence and security if it really is their intensity. When we talk about frames, we have a big problem here. We talked earlier about how valuable these personnel are at the Military School itself, I really don't get into it as a club, and in fact, our goal is to develop the Military School, to develop our personnel in the field of defence and security, but what we don't know is how this is going to happen right now because there are only four doctors in science at the Military School, there were five of them, they fell to four. The way from obtaining scientific title, from the way of calling lecturers to the scientific calling of a doctor can last for all of us who are in the system of science and higher education, we know for several years, and we really do not understand that there is some law on work, since there is a new collective contract in science and higher education since November of last year where every employee in the system must participate in some 50% of their working time in science, it must be on a scientific project and one variable part can be continued, we really do not understand how this legal assumption is going to be fulfilled by the Labour Act, and I repeat, therefore, the newly adopted Collective Treaty in the field of science and higher education. Therefore, to refer to the quality law itself, so indeed, if I were the Minister of Science and Education, I would submit myself to the constitutionality assessment of the proposal of this law, here the Ministry of Science and Education's resolution, the whole profession, the work of an independent Agency for Science and Higher Education, which has received a series of commendations and as regards European associations in the European area of higher education that implements independent accreditation, is diminished. I will only remind myself that the Croatian Parliament is just so that initial accreditation and later all re-accreditation in 2011 has been adopted by a network of higher education criteria and that the Agency itself is submitted to the Agency for Science and Higher Education as an independent body during each initial accreditation and re-accreditation process, a document called the Study of Probability of Public Financing. Under the proposal of this law, this university will not be obliged to do so because, as the provisions of the law itself say, it will not be subject to the Quality Act. I do not have to speak or speak, so I have already said that this is controversial as regards the constitutional category itself and the legislative framework itself, but it also places a shadow and a mark on everything that has been done at present both in the segment of science and higher education and also in the segment of the development of defence and security. What we are proposing is that, of course, further development of defence and security, however, we are not clear why we must immediately go to the establishment of a university when simply with some kind of saying, progressive growth and development could have started at least for the beginning of college. We have not seen here at all how precisely the University of Zagreb and Split was manifested, as were those employees who, in some amount, actually carry all these collegiates on these study programmes. I repeat, we are for development, we are for people on these institutions and study programmes to have some kind of theoretical knowledge that is being transmitted to them and to the Military University practical knowledge, but then we come up with a key problem. What about diplomats? What if this one student becomes an graduate, gets a diploma, who will nostrify that diploma if he decides to work in some European institutions, if he decides to work for NATO? Who's going to nostrate him, who's going to admit it to him? So we have not been able to cope today, nor have we fully implemented the Croatian HKU Act in order to nostrate the diplomas of accredited study programs at all, now you have a recent study of dental medicine in Osijek where students after 5 years of study do not know how to recognise their diplomas. So we're talking here right now about I'd say, the key problem, and these are the personnel, it's the recognition of diplomats, and what all of us need to worry about here as parliamentary deputies who are going to vote on this proposal for first reading tomorrow is that we're actually going to vote on a proposal that's unconstitutional and illegal. I think a document like this, I'm going to say openly, so Minister Resorni really tried to explain to us as best he could, but honestly I didn't get his or her, didn't affect me in a way that he could explain to me why and how competent it wasn't the Ministry of Science and Education and I appeal Once again, the ruling to withdraw this proposal from the procedure. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7083	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. So the next club of MPs will be the SDSS on behalf of which a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac, should speak. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. So we move on to an individual debate, and the first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Miro Bulj. He's not here either, he's losing his right to debate. So the next one will be the respected representative of Ante Bacic. He's not here either, he's losing his right to debate. The next individual debate will be the respected representatives of Anka Mrak Taritash. She's gone, she's losing her right to argue. I don't know what's going on. The next individual debate is the respected representative Katarina Peovic. She's not here either, she's losing her right to debate. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Damir Habian, forgive the respected representative Mark Pavic, finally has him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7084	Dear Vice President, I didn't mean to be here so soon, but good. Dear Vice President, Honorable Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The tradition of military universities and universities that will be both wider and cover the system of homeland security is great in the world. I also had a personal opportunity as a student to be at a summer school at the Ecole polytechnic in Paris where I was first-hand convinced of how this university works, a university that heritage tradition of the days of Napoleon where all French citizens are in one officer of the French army. So this step is going to form a university is not something new. There is a tradition in NATO countries, Academyman Reiner pointed out other countries that have such universities, and over the last few years, especially in management education, I have found that the issue of leadership or leadership development is precisely coming from the military tradition. There is a famous West Point model of development of leadership as well as many others, and during various other visits I visited some of the military universities in the United States. So congratulations to Mr Krstic, both the Minister and the previous Minister of Defence, the Deputy Prime Minister of the then-Mr Krstic, that they have decided to go in this direction and that this act will also form a university that will cover the military part, but not only the military part but also the entire system of homeland security. What was my impute and board were to be small and more ambitious especially in this section around the leadership. Today, the world’s largest multinational companies are targeting people for their management who can finish and finish such studies. On the board, I highlighted several well-intentioned remarks on how to improve more legislation. A long time ago I was in the Student Assembly, I was president of the Association of Young Scientists, of course, that every university in the focus of students, so my advice was to equalize yourself with the participation of students you have in the Senate and with the university and with the Professional Council of the University that's 15%. I know you have the ambition of postgraduate studies, so you've probably taken over from art. 58. Law on scientific activity 10+5, 10% undergraduate, 5% postgraduate, but until then you may not have the same high school as 15% of students. The second thing is a question of special student interest in the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education there is such a concept of suspension veto, and the same advice to use it and the question of university advice that some of the provisions relating to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education also take over. I am pleased to support this law and, as my colleagues from the club said, the HDZ Club will support this, and we are pleased and proud that this university will bear the name of the first Croatian President, Mr. Tudjman, and also appreciate the military tradition of human development, capacity, especially in the field of management and leadership, we are giving this support, I also say, to be free of ambition and to develop programmes in this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7085	Thank you very much. We've got one replica, the esteemed representative of Pulak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7086	Dear colleague Pavić. You mentioned the Ecole polytechnics, so here I have some experiences with the Ecole polytechnic. My husband has been doing a Ph.D. at Ecole polytechnic for several years, so I know how this school works and I assure you that at that, it would be the most schools in France, have a higher status than universities, but I assure you that something like this in this proposal to say in the bill not to apply the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Higher Education is something that is absolutely impossible to happen in France and the Ecole polytechnic. So let's not argue about the need for high-quality education of this staff, but this bill is simply a degradation of this whole idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7087	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7088	Thank you very much. Ecole polytechnics is a high school or university under the system of grandecol so-called. Great schools, specifically Ecole polytechnics is no longer a military university but is under the management of the Ministry of Defence which is similar to this concept, so I absolutely disagree with you. I think that the Ecole polytechnic as well as the West Point, as well as many other universities and military schools can be a role model, I believe that this law contributes to that direction. Of course, Ecole polytechnics has existed since the days of Napoleon, I believe that all the components he has will be built and we will build as many other schools, it is important that we are in NATO and believe that we will also have support from many of our partners and NATO members on that path to the development of the military university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7089	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Damir Habib. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7090	Dear Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, here is the proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security. At the moment in the Republic of Croatia, 10 universities are active and 8 public and 2 private. The youngest public university is the University of North Varazdin which was founded in May 2015. Why am I pointing out the University of Warsaw in the context of this law? It is precisely because the youngest in our country is in the city of Varazdin in October 1991 with the City of Zagreb and Samobor began to develop military education by conducting officer courses in the town of Varazdin. The construction of education infrastructure in the field of defence and security has gone through several stages, and all phases have the same goal, which is to improve the professional skills of Croatian officers, accept international standards and bring them into line with civil scientific and educational standards and institutions. For a country the size of Croatia, given the number of inhabitants, one might say that it is too many universities. However, when discussing a proposal for the establishment of this university, it should be taken into account its specificity regarding the content and objectives which the establishment of a new university seeks to achieve. In the light of the proposal for this law, it states, among other things, that it will ensure the implementation of basic military education for Croatian military officers at pre-graduate and graduate level, the development of scientific and research activities and the launch of post-graduate level study programmes as part of the continuation of existing military programmes, and part of the development of new programmes aimed at the needs of the Homeland Security System. Very often we get to hear that in the military regular action of the Croatian Army, first of all here I mean Storm, learns at numerous foreign military universities as an example of a very well-prepared military operation. By adopting this legislative proposal for a military operation, the Croatian Army will now be able to study students at our military university, which in some ways closes the circle in establishing an educational infrastructure that includes defence and national or homeland security. I believe that for a country that intends to be an important factor in security and stability it is no longer enough to provide education only for the needs of the armed forces but must provide education for all members of Homeland Security. This is also the document of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which points to the specificity of higher education and scientific research for the purposes of defence and national security systems. An additional argument to support this legislative proposal is the fact that university institutes are holders of various international projects while the existing military school as such cannot be. A number of EU members such as Germany, the Czech Republic, Spain are precisely representing the National Defence University model, which is covered by a number of defence and security research institutes. There are also various forms of cooperation in the EU between universities either through joint study programmes, scientific cooperation, projects, exchange of teachers and students and other forms of cooperation. Furthermore, numerous countries around the world have established military universities such as Austria, which is officially a neutral country, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Canada, Finland, Sweden, etc. The adoption of this bill and the establishment of the university certainly create conditions for further development of the capabilities of the Croatian Army, which will be able to meet the challenges of the 21st century, and as foreseen earlier in the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. A secure and stable state must have a quick and coordinated response to security threats and instability such as terrorism, uncontrolled illegal migration, transnational organised crime and thus experts who will be qualified and competent to work in the security system, various research institutes, international organisations and diplomacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7091	Thank you. Stay here for a moment because we have several replicas, Martincevic is the first respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7092	Here is the honourable representative of Habib when you mentioned the University of the North in Varazdin I was just reminded that this procedure was going very quickly, unlike the procedure of establishing the University of the North which lasted and lasted. In fact, the establishment of the University of the North in Varazdin was neither interested in the HDZ nor the SDP government. Only on my proposal on behalf of reformists here in the assembly, university, and under pressure and closeness of parliamentary elections was established by Milanovic's government. Now that we've established that university, I think it would be very good to be equal with the other universities in our country. Here is Pula 52 million kuna less students than Varazdin, Dubrovnik 46 million kuna, Rijeka 327 million kuna, Zadar 107 million kuna, Varazdin with 4,000 students 35 million kuna. We ask you to fight in this mandate to put the University of the North in an equal position with all other universities in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7093	Thank you. It wasn't exactly a replica of exposure. I don't know if a colleague will answer or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7094	I'll answer if you'll allow it, therefore, respected colleague Martincevic, so there were three legal proposals in 2015. So there was one legal proposal of yours, there was one legislative proposal from colleagues Strick, Križanić and some other representatives from the HDZ and there was another proposal concerning the establishment of the University of the North. As far as the funds are concerned, we must be clear by the end of last year, just with the amendment of fellow Uncles of the University of the North, an additional 20 million kuna was received, I am sure that in the budget for next year that amount will be even higher. As for the pawnage, so we from the HDZ for the development of the university, so not only the University of the North but also the components of the Zagreb University, or the Faculty of Organization and Informatics, are saying enough that, I hope, soon, the ministry will allocate an additional 2.5 million kuna for the editing and new premises of the FOI. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7095	The next is the replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7096	So precisely because we care about the real interests of the Croatian Army and the development of military science, I will ask you two very specific questions regarding the establishment of a military university. First of all, how many college holders have military competencies, or how many of their colleagues contribute to the outcomes of military abilities? And the second question is, why haven't we accredited the school so far, and especially before this agreement, where the Croatian Military School is not the holder but the performer? We believe that this blocked the development of military-science personnel and continued the trend of his exit from the military. In fact, we are really in the interest of developing Croatian military science, and we are afraid that such pompous proposals are actually a "trojan horse" that will solidify the existing situation and prevent, in fact, the development of it rather than encourage it. So please answer these two very specific questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7097	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7098	Thank you very much. Here, I wouldn't agree if this was a pompous proposal, as you said in the end and concluded your presentation. I think what I'm saying is what I'm saying, and the opening is actually closing a circle, or we're getting a high-quality education infrastructure. As for the very questions you have referred to me, I have listened carefully to your debate in front of the club, and as far as I know, such similar questions have been referred to by the minister, who is very clear to you in his presentation. I'm not in front of the exhibitor here right now, or I'm not the legislator of this law, but I'm just a parliamentary representative, so you've got the answer to the question, I guess you'll repeat it and get the same answer again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7099	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Pulaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7100	Here's a question, so I'm going to ask everyone. So how do you interpret it? 1st century 4 that a university procedure is not subject to the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, which is regulated by the initial accreditation procedure. How do you interpret this university not to be initially accredited? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7101	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7102	Well, I think that too, a colleague from the Green-Left coalition has already spoken to you about it and how well I understood he called himself to the article. 28th, therefore, of the bill in which it gives you the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7103	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7104	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, my colleague, Habiban. In your debate, you stated that many countries in the world, including the US and the EU, Germany, the Czech Republic, Spain, France, have similar universities. And now that we look, these are all economically developed countries, technically and technologically advanced with a strong degree and the development of democracy, socially sensitive and to them as such are military or similar universities welcome, and not for us. So how do you interpret it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7105	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7106	Thank you very much. Here, dear fellow Striker, I'm sorry if that's the case, and I can see from the presentation of some MPs that it really is. I can only repeat, therefore, these arguments that I have already pointed out, so especially when we talk about international military universities, so across the EU, but also, for example, in the United States, and also in Canada, that is, by forming or establishing this University of Defence and Security, I assume that there will be even better cooperation between those institutions. I also think that we heard from colleagues, that someone also held a discussion on the topic where he highlighted the greater possibility of using the EU fund, since the current Military School could not be the bearer of these projects but merely a partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7107	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7108	Thank you, fellow Habian. You have warned of the fact that military operation Storm and other operations are being studied at other military universities, and here we are witnessing what is said to be, that this would not be directed or good at the Croatian Military University to study. On the other hand, what is not warned or sufficiently alerted, foreign military officers are already taking part in the course, or in this programme, and it is normal that those who have performed these operations and who have the highest military experience are involved in the implementation of these programmes, in particular in the military section, so that it is de facto very hypocritical of those who challenge the possibility at all, calling for anti-constitution and illegality, to form such a university.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7109	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7110	Thank you very much. Here, dear colleague Tudjman, I absolutely agree with you. If I remember correctly when I visited the Pentagon in 2017, General Krstičević received congratulations at the time in the Pentagon for Operation Storm where it was clearly said that the conduct of the operation was actually being conducted and investigated at their military universities. And what you said in the end, I absolutely agree, this is a real example of actually connecting practices and experiences, or theories and practices, so people who are going to be teaching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7111	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Damir Bakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7112	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. In the presentation that I submitted on behalf of the club, I argued why this establishment of the University of Defence and Security would be contrary to the relevant laws, so why the proposed legal text is unacceptable. Now I'd say, however, something else. I would refer to why I think the establishment of the University of Defence and Security is how it's supposed to be, even if it's in accordance with all the laws, why do I think it's harmful for defence and security studies themselves? First of all, I've already mentioned something. That's it, I'm just going to look around one more time, for example. Art. 18 of the proposed legal text, which therefore explicitly predicts two things that somehow do not belong to the academic community and certainly damages the normal functioning of any university or university. This is on the one hand the possibility that members of the armed forces can be referred to the work of the University of Defence and Security simply by the decision of the superiors without verifying their actual qualifications. On the other hand, it is also another item of the same article that provides that the salaries of the employees at the University of Defence and Security may vary and will, on its own chance, drop from the pay system in, in higher education. All this, of course, actually draws origin from the actual dual loyalty that this university would have to its real founder, which is the Ministry of Defence and, of course, according to, according to the implicitly competent ministry, which is the Ministry of Science and Education. Maybe the most important thing I want to say right now is the next. Study programmes currently being implemented, defence and security study programmes currently carried out at high school in cooperation with the University of Split and with the University of Zagreb, these study programmes are valuable, quality, should be supported, promoted and have room for improvement. These study programmes are designed according to the form of regular university studies, they are subject to external evaluation according to the regulations governing higher education. They are worth it because they were created in the academic environment of the university in the full sense of the word. The program of defense and security in my deep court should remain in the membership of the university. The university is that it can give them a wider horizon, which can give them a complete academic width. The university is what can provide them, a university in a broader sense, e.g. This Zagreb within which most of these studies work, which can ensure quality interdisciplinary, very disciplined teaching skills. The university is that it can provide wider horizons, which can ensure a wider selection of future original colleges, which can provide further and possible and necessary improvement. On the contrary, closure, closure of this new University of Defence and Security in itself necessarily leads to self-sufficiency, leads to authority, leads to the narrowing of the horizon, leads somehow to a reduction of standards, collapse of standards and ultimately what we have seen many times on similar examples, in these circumstances necessarily and in a certain kind of clientism. In this regard, we think that it is in the best interest of the existing study programmes of defence and security to remain in the format in which they are and to further improve in full cooperation with all the components, both the University of Zagreb and the University of Split. And finally just to mention one more thing. Here we were talking about the need to attract foreign students to this future university. It is of course a valuable intensity and orientation, but let us be confident without proper supervision, without real quality, without real adherence to universities, with academic standards foreign students will not attract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7113	Thank you. We've got some replicas. He's the first respected representative of Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7114	Thank you. Dear fellow, you were in that first presentation that you called upon to say that this was against the law, not to go with one false reading or disqualification of this first article of St. 4. where it is said to be illegal, and it de facto refers to the fact that existing accreditations for these study programmes should not be reactivated or re-implemented in view of the fact that this remains cor or the basis on which this will work, this university. So just this whole copy of what you're saying doesn't work. On the other hand, the key seems to be that it does not want to recognise the parenthood of this university for defence and security sciences is that no other university has the parenthood for, for this area and therefore with this one logic You should go and consider the bill and what it pulls with it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7115	Thank you. Dear Representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7116	Here's a short one, so I, I respect your, your, your right to, yes, yes, yes, yes, that attitude. However, not just me, a few colleagues and colleagues actually share my opinion. One is, then, one is the fact that existing study programs have passed some accreditation in their time, and the other is a fact which means accrediting a new university, which means issuing a certificate to a new university. I think those two things are white, white, so different. As for other things, I would also point out that, we don't have a problem with that, that high school where the status is right now, having parenthood with regard to these certain studies. But also, I will also remind you as a few colleagues and colleagues, a colleague said that most of the study programmes being carried out are both holders and authors of these study programmes, so professors of other universities of the University of Zagreb and the University of Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7117	Next replicas of the respected representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7118	... in its exposure to meeting academic standards, which I will certainly agree with, mainly the conditions to become a university or become part of an existing university community although I am not sure that our motivation and view of military science is equal. [[Specially enabled.]] But I am interested in one principle level on the one hand you are calling for this academic consistency, on the other hand, the head of your club is the programme manager of one political ecology institute which deceives the Croatian public because it is not a public scientific institution but a simple association. Well, if someone can call themselves an institute, then how come we're here asking for someone to respect any standards to be called a university? Maybe you can do that, too? What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7119	I'll give you my word first, right? [[Intruding Grandma: I'll take the right...]] Here you go, if you'd like to answer even though it wasn't about the subject, but go ahead. [[Intruder Bakić: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7120	I'm sorry, it's the fruit of my inexperience, I'm sorry. So I'm going to take the right not to answer your question and in the first part, so you've somehow allowed yourself to speak or imply something about your motivation and my motivation that you would rather not comment on and, of course, second question, it's simply a statement of your attitude, which is definitely absolutely disjunctive with the metrics of today's debate. [[Intruder Reiner: Here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7121	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Sanja Radolovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7122	I thank the chairman. So let's recap. From the speech on behalf of the clubs, we have resumed the following that the procedure has been sent to us by a draft law which is not in accordance with the Constitution, since it violates the category of autonomy of the university because it requires the University of Zagreb and the University of Split to transfer the study programmes within 60 days which they are not obliged to do. Furthermore, no new public consultation has been carried out since both colleague Puljak and colleague Rasdić have been instructed here by an old member. 20th Law, this article was changed in the procedure that was sent to us and then no new public consultation was carried out but we received here a consultation which took place during the duration of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament from 20 April 2020 to 4 May 2020, so by ruling here we dared to send an unconstitutional act which is not in accordance with the law itself. What we also know next and what we've found here is that we don't even know how to nostrate those diplomas themselves, who's going to recognize those diplomas into something that's settled and that's the European space of higher education. In addition, the legislative act itself is neither in line with the existing legal framework applicable to the activities of science and higher education, so it will not be subject to the law on quality and therefore I repeat, thus reducing all independent institutions, primarily the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which I repeat, has received a number of commendations and has been accredited by European institutions in the field of science and higher education and will not be necessary for this university to meet a series of rigorous criteria prescribed by a network of high school criteria that I repeat, again brought by the Croatian Parliament in 2011. But what I forgot to say in the club’s very exposure to the club’s name is, in fact, that it is absolutely amazing here when assessing the resources needed to implement the law, it is simply stated that financial resources in the budget will not be necessary because they are already provided. I wonder, therefore, on what basis and how the new university will finance the staff because the vast majority of these personnel over so 80% of the staff and over 50% of the contact hours are currently working on the components of the University of Split and the University of Zagreb, I think that these people are no one based on the Labour Act, based on their collective contracts and contracts of work they have signed, cannot force their coefficients to pass on to a new university nor can anyone make them break down existing labour contracts and move to universities. I really don't know who might have thought of sending an act like this to the institution of the Parliament, as the highest legislative body, I repeat, such an act would have been better written by a student in the first year of law school. I call once again on you to withdraw from the procedure this act that we have received because it is completely unconstitutional, completely out of line with the law itself. So we talked about the accreditation itself, my colleague Tudjman said it would not be applied because initial accreditation is not necessary, and I will remind you that at the end of April 2020, no permanent accreditation was obtained, nor for the existing university programmes, and I really don't know how you think to get them as it is in the law that the Minister of Science and Higher Education will then after 6 months. from the establishment of the university to carry out reaccreditation. So it's absurd that we start something and then in six months. What, are we going to recredit? It is well known how it regulates the existing Quality Act and after how long the reaccreditation of study programmes is carried out, it is common after some 5 years of obtaining a licence for the implementation of the study programme itself. What I'm asking you, the same thing other than personnel issues, how will the intellectual property issue be regulated? I believe that you yourself know that intellectual property is carried over the very study programmes planned to be performed at the future university, so they are carried by the members of the University of Split and Zagreb, or by the people who wrote themselves the silos of these items. So I call you once again, we'll make the decision right before the vote, I urge you once again to withdraw this proposal from the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7123	Thank you very much, we have, stay, stay, please colleagues, colleagues you've got carried away, stay here we have two replicas, the first respected representative of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7124	Dear fellow Radolović, what you have mentioned is that unfortunately, in this bill, which came before MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, no consultation with the interested public has been conducted. It is something that is inadmissible and it is something that the Croatian Parliament should stand against not only on this bill but also on all legislative proposals that enter into the parliamentary procedure. However, it is not surprising that such practice, especially when we talk about this law if we take into account the confusion and indignity that the promoter experienced in consulting the interested public when we discussed this similar legislative proposal in the previous assembly, where you even had the situation that the Rector of a university, in particular the rector Boras, was involved in, among which its constituents were involved in this law, the transfer of certain study programmes, had to use counseling with the interested public to say that some things were not agreed here and not respected the procedure which should have been respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7125	The answer of the respected representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7126	Thank you, esteemed colleague of the Voice. Indeed, when you look at the comments and remarks that were received through consultation with the interested public, I would say really absurd to absurd. So, what we have are the comments of the very rector of the largest university in the state, we have comments and employees who have made their remarks on the bill itself. And what has to be said is that by ruling it, they've really slyly solved it. The new consultation, however, has not been carried out, all those remarks which they have stated in their replies, so it is not clear whether they are accepted, not accepted, whether they are partially accepted or not, they are simply in the new proposal for this 10th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, they all wrote in the proposal for an act to regulate them more closely with the statute. So if you look at the bill in the first reading of the 9th convocation, and this proposal that we received in the binomial is different from what they have publicly announced there. They're planning to work, and they're hiding it here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7127	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7128	Thank you. The practice of this assembly is that MPs can say whatever they want regardless of the facts. So as far as accreditation is concerned, accreditations have been carried out for these programs, and they exist, the credentials are given for these programs, that's the one part that you've rejected. However, what you did not mention, which is that all competent institutions from the Ministry of Science to the Agency have given their consent to this programme and given their opinion. And on the other hand, what is constantly being imposed, is that these laws on science, the quality of scientific education laws will not apply to this university. Where did you read that? It's just a fabrication. Here it is simply spoken for this period, an initial period that will not be re-accredited for programs for which accreditation already exists So we should be far more responsible when you give... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7129	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7130	I thank you for your comments, comments, suggestions, whatever they may be, but I must tell you that I do not know that we have something called the Adviser Content Regulation, a document that I know very well and that is closer to edits as much as possible in terms of personnel, one university has to have conditions in order to implement study programs, and therefore this proposal of the law of the new university is fully based on existing study programs whose holders are the other two universities, the University of Zagreb and the University of Split, so they also use their human and spatial capacities. Of course, it is clear as a day that it is not possible to apply the Quality Insurance Act because initial accreditation if it were to be looked at according to 16 criteria that determines the network of criteria of higher universities that was adopted in this particular assembly in 2011 that university would not have passed. I didn't see the opinion of the Agency for Science and Higher Education because that agency didn't betray it either. Resort Ministry of Science and Education. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7131	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Mario Banozic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7132	Dear MPs, you've mentioned e-consultation several times already as a problem. So we have a law that's been on e-consultation in April and the law re-emerges on the first reading why it's a new assembly. There was no need to go back to e-consultation. These changes that have occurred are the changes that are there, which have been accepted, which we are talking about today, and in the end if you hold that much need, we can put in another reading of e-consultation. So I don't see it as any kind of a problem at all, that it's something about constitutionality, that it's something that should be pulled out of the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7133	We have some replicas. The Honorable representative of the Voter first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7134	Minister, your statement is scandalous that if you want to, we'll put it on public counseling. It is your duty to carry out the process of assessing the effects of regulations that do not only involve consulting with the interested public, it is only a second step. The first step is what you didn't do, it's an impact assessment of the regulations. Is it necessary to pass this law, it is not necessary to pass this law, if necessary we go to another step. What happened at the 9th Assembly, forget it. That law no longer exists. You are coming before us with a new bill of law and I'm sorry that I may be giving it to you right now, but I have the impression that you do not understand what respect for Croatian laws is. You were obliged to put the draft law on consultation with the interested public in accordance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. It is not a matter that representatives in the Croatian Parliament want or do not want, it is your obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7135	Thank you very much. The Honorable Defence Minister, Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7136	I can't answer this any other way than by asking, have you had situations like this before since you've been sitting here for a long time? ... And here I'm going to answer you, you did, but now it bothers you at the Law of the University of Defense, you've had the same situations. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7137	Minister Banozic and I have another replica of the respected representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7138	Here, I'll just read you an article. 20. last bill, which says that "the university can also implement other study programmes available to other candidates outside the defence system in studies for the needs of the defence system and the home security system". In the new proposal we received in Art. 20, it was deleted that “the university can also implement lifelong education programmes. ” If this is not an important change in the text of the bill, then I do not know what to comment on a series of objections in the e-consultation process itself. I ask you very nicely to reconsider, I would be pleased to have the Minister of Science and Higher Education here today, and also the Director of the Science and Higher Education Agency herself, to hear live their opinions on what they think about this precedent to save your face in the end because you are currently violating the constitutional category of university autonomy. Who said they had to pass on those study programs to you? You can't order them, there's something called a constitutional category. And on the other hand... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7139	Thank you very much. The reply of the respected Minister Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7140	So in the procedure when the law is passed or the bill is proposed in the Parliament, of course, opinions are being collected which precede and the motion for decisions coming to the government. These opinions are also an integral part. You have the opinion of the Secretary-General on this part. You also have a part that refers precisely to the introduction of this change regarding lifelong education, but that I am now, why I replied to you that we can put reading or e-consultation in another reading, just so you can't water the law in this way. We can talk about his quality which would be good, but let's just say someone made the procedure on purpose wrong and that I should take it back from that I disagree. That's why I'm making this argument to you. If you think e-consultation is something that's going to change this part, we'll put it in another reading, but don't say we're doing something unconstitutional is not constitutional. The same thing, the resolution minister gave his opinion, is also the universities in Zagreb and Split that have participated since the beginning and in the creation of the programme and are aware of the importance of the military university.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7141	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Marija Selak Raspoudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7142	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. There is no other thing than to repeat it and leave it hanging in the air obviously questions that I consider crucial, which I have already asked my colleagues before, Habib, who incorrectly said that they had already been asked and that the answer had been given to them. I don't think every parliamentary representative is able to know the answers to all the questions and not all the topics of our equal personal interest and competence. However, when we come to individual debates and talk about laws and their importance, in this case the Law establishing a military university should at least know that there are things to think about and that these issues are important before we cut the possibility of answering them. My first question, as far as the metrics are concerned, concerns this law and what it brings, or the problems that already exist in the system and which it will not solve, but seems to be cemented to us. The first question is, how many college holders have military competencies, or how many of their colleagues contribute to military-related outcomes? And now I'm going to say this healthy peasantly because I want every citizen in Croatia to understand me. So, we currently have the School of Military Dr. Franjo Tudjman, what we would expect from him, and what we especially expect if we had a university, which should be a step above the military school, that we have an army that is scientifically capable of carrying these collegiates, carrying these programs and in its hands the power to educate the staff, the military chamber. Why in her hands? Well, because she has these military competences. Therefore, military education is also involved on the one hand in this theoretical, scientific education and strategic education, and on the other hand in other aspects of education. The current code that teaches our army lacks that competence, and it will direct the way it thinks in the future. That's the first question. So we don't have an army that holds the reins in our hands as far as education is concerned. We don't see that this university is going to change that situation. Second question, how will we have strategic leaders if we don't have a home military school for the development of military science? The Croatian Military School should be the centre of scientific excellence. We talked about it, he also talked about it, and he spoke about it, but how will the members agree and under what conditions will the Croatian Military School become a parent? We are now seeing in those comments that we could read that certain components of the university highlight their merit in teaching at the Military University of Dr. Franjo Tudjman and remind them of their rights in this regard, because it is a key question why not all these years, especially in 2014 at the time of the development of university study programmes for the Croatian Army, the process of transforming the military university to a highly educated, scientific and research institution aimed at accreditation of the military school, could have been done before. This would also ensure the process of developing a military scientific frame of importance and from the point of view of the teaching process. Moreh would thus be in a position of human responsibility, and today we wouldn't even be discussing this law. Namely, what's the matter? While every Croat in what kind of supersonic airplanes we need is being broken at night about whether our skies will be flown by French or American planes, so once again entertained by details that aren't irrelevant, but are particular, we overlook the key, which is that we are free of military equipment if we don't have strategic leaders who will know how to use it. Or if I were to apply this conclusion to the present moment, if we had developed military science and education in time, we would have experts who would have justifiably decided and explained to the general public what planes to buy, so we wouldn't be witnessing this tape and debacle around military planes. Military science along with military planes is the only real thing in terms of long-term guardians of our sky. Therefore, all social forces need to be directed at creating the assumption that they are finally beginning to develop sovereignly and independently without debts, tails and relying on largely foreign aid, just like our country, or the state of Croatia, which we have finally achieved. Let us be aware of the new historical facts and act sovereignly. I repeat, there is no Croatian state without an army, and there is no army without military science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7143	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure first, and then the replicas, the esteemed representative Tudjman, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7144	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ called for my opinion, and he knows or should know that I do not have the right to answer since I have used the number of replicas to which I have the right, and when what is incorrectly said here that HV has no experts to talk about what military studies should have in its narrow segment is the military's skills as well as medicine, it's not just science, it's not just theory, it's art. So, we do have an expert who might have these military items... [[Intruder: Dear Representative Tudjman]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7145	Your Honor, Agent Tudjman, this one you have abused the institution of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will not give you a warning for the first time, but I beg you and everyone else not to do so. We have enough replica options, we have the ability to speak individually. Please don't abuse it or I'll start giving real warnings. This next one, this one we got, nothing, good. We have a replica of the esteemed Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7146	... Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. [[Speaker not enabled]] My colleague, you have debated the code of the army system itself, that exist only for yourself and for yourself. But the army is part of our society. You don't have any elemental disasters, disasters that the civilian authorities have asked for military assistance, that it didn't run into the field and did its part. The university is also called the University of Defence and Security. Our security aside from the military is made up of police, civil protection, firefighters, inspectorates, customs or all other components. So I really don't see that we have this debate that should be a university just for the needs of the military and that they are enough for themselves or for themselves. So here we are talking about one security of defence and national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7147	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7148	I appreciate the question. So not of course that the military is not the world itself and that it should, as it is said here, be an integral part of Croatian society. But in what is crucial for its development and for its scientific development as well as in any other science, which, according to which rules it should play, requires a key role in its scientific teaching capacity. Its scientific teaching code is currently being proposed by these and those, especially those that were before, not developing, nor being an independent carrier, what I've asked as a question. So they do not have their independence to allow for the real development of that science. Of course, it is undeniable that other components of the university should cooperate with each other and that each science should be developed interdisciplinaryly. But you can't tell me that a good situation in which an army or military school itself will not be a bearer, nor will it be, nor will it have a parent for its colleagues. She doesn't have her independence, this law, this bad practice continues with the translation of these programs into its present components.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7149	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This debate is actually going in one sense now that was before a chicken or an egg. There's no scientific personnel because there's no university, no parenting, so there's no scientific personnel. I wouldn't have kept this at these formal bickerings that actually follow from one worldview one that we don't need that university at all and the others who advocate that we should. I would suggest a few amendments and warn of some things that I think should be complemented by this law. I think that the importance of the public of this university should be strengthened, that it should not only be focused on the needs of armed forces and homeland security, I think, because it is a rather imprecise, inaccurate determination given the possibility of participation in such studies, it simply assumes that someone in the system can only be a student of that university. What I think should be more pronounced in the law, that it should be, that it is open to all future researchers, journalists, business management. Finally, this corporate security thing was already 20 years ago. It has been said that twice as much is set aside for the area in the civil sector as it stands out for the defence forces. So he would suggest that, if that part were done. On the other hand, I think that this university should go with more ambition, it doesn't have to be within the law, but it needs to see whether these definitions are sufficient, in my opinion, that university should be more ambitious and go with the inclusion of programs or those, existing institutions that want it, from the diplomatic academy, from the intelligence academy programmes, that is, we had in the 1990s, so it was abolished in 2000, to be open to the police academy if it wanted to become a member of that university, so that in one full volume we get this area of defence and national security that one parent institution that will form these staffs, recognise that status, and satisfy those conditions that every national university that deals with the area of national interest, according to its definition, has. It should therefore also be considered to supplement these specifics under which this university is planned to be financed only from the funds provided for by, for defence or the Ministry of Defence. It should be left open to all these other stakeholders who are interested in dealing with this area, I said whether they want to deal with research, journalism or some other aspect, that such, that the part should be financed from the funds for science. By the way, my opinion is that these quotas should be abolished already to go to the voucher system, so that would change a lot in relationships with these universities. And perhaps given the time that remains for me to point out why it is important to have this university. Just given these people who are finishing these study programs today. They don't get, they don't get diplomas from universities for national security, they get diplomas from Split or Zagreb universities, and thus cadets who end it say listen you're in the army temporarily, you don't have to look for a long-term career in the military. And it's frustrating for those people. It should be clear that there should be logic that people can have room for manoeuvre and choose their own interests and work in the civil sector as well as in the military. And on that side I think it's a good, good way to get these diplomas that this university will get worth after and when, when or if they won't be in the system of armed forces or Homeland Security that they can also use them under these conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7151	Thank you very much. Stay a moment, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7152	So you said this, our conversation about the best way and modeling the university law is a matter of worldview. It is not at all a question of the worldview, I was very precise and exact and I was saying what I think should be in the interest of the Croatian Army. Unlike what you have instructed me, I have carefully read your earlier work on this topic, the strategic challenges and education programmes of the Croatian Military School, and the model that you have proposed there has offered college status to the Croatian Military School and you felt that the Law on Scientific Activity should be amended. On that trail, my question is whether the university is a better solution, and why and why do you think the components will agree and under what conditions would the Croatian Military School become a parent for its.../incomprehensible/...?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7153	Dear Representative Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7154	Thank you very much. First I said in that paper if I remember it well it was written a few years ago that you should have the faculty's ingenuity so you could go to the university's transition. So that part wasn't either-or it was going that way with the university. The second question was about parenthood, right? Therefore, the acquisition of parenthood and rights, the rules of scientific functioning simply will apply to this university as well as to all other universities and all other, all other scientific institutions. The fact is that we don't have parenthood today, we don't have any colleges, or the university isn't parenting for the area, but they form at the university and special commissions that give birth. It was such a development if you will and if you want with information sciences, I didn't doctor in information sciences at any university. but at the University of Zagreb. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Therefore,... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7155	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7156	Dear colleague and professor. Tudjman, it was a pleasure to hear your argument because it seems to me that you are one of the most invited to give arguments to this law, not only are you coming from the university within that topic and I was glad to hear when I read this law it seemed to me that he lacked even more ambition, that you are also calling to be even more ambitious. It would also look back when I speak with the diplomatic choir, when I speak with my attachés, the experience we have in operational actions, and Storm, Flash and many such praises to study at many universities of military schools in the world. The practical experience of our professors certainly gives us reasons to go into this establishment. My message is also so that it can be more ambitious, but I was very glad to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7157	Dear Representative Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7158	What I would like is that the law simply does not allow such future development, and the clear thing to depend on the programs, on the staff, on people and on opportunities for these future components to be upgraded or adopted. As for this second act, the study, and there was also one remark here, is now the Chief or I don't know who, the army determines who's going to sign up. No, they will simply, on their own needs, say that they need such and such a number of people to school, and these people have to meet qualifications or conditions that they can enter that study, on the other hand, what was not said, the practice is to take the American army, to get to the level of command, to listen to these items, to listen, when it progresses in career, comes as a lecturer one semester, two semesters and then returns to troops in command.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7159	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7160	Thank you. So here you are now mentioning that not only should the new university be financed from the funds that are under the defence portfolio, but that should be partly financed from both the resources of science and higher education resolutions. It is again contradictory with the bill of law that we have received here, so it clearly states here that for the university the minister of defense and the defence department themselves is in charge of the university. So again here you're making us vote for something that doesn't agree with the law, here in the evaluation and the source of the funds clearly states that the funds are nothing at all necessary. My question to you is actually how much funding will it take to set up this university? How do you plan on doing that in six months? Since when will science and higher education recredit be carried out, current lecturers gain the minimum calling of professors who currently have two scientific papers written?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7161	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7162	Thank you. I said this that my proposal, therefore, I hope that you do not dispute my right to amend or propose amendments to this law, is one thing. On the other hand, you have a choice for lecturers, it will go according to those rules of certain laws for science, education or for the quality of science as they are not already called, they will have to be respected and on the other hand we have to accept the fact that military arts are as specific as you have art, music academy where you are not taught by someone who has studied the history of art as they surrender, but I mean in the performance as artists, or painters, musicians who know how to do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7163	Thank you very much. The next individual debate, thank you, will be respected representatives of Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, there is somewhere here, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will remember how long it will allow me to look back at those remarks that have been made that the proposal of this law is not in line with the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education and I will point out that, therefore, in support of the remarks that the initial accreditation procedure has been avoided in the establishment of this university. So really in art. 1. states that the establishment of this university is not subject to the Quality Act only to the initial accreditation process but to initial accreditation as has already been explained and highlighted, through the status change of accredited programmes, so it is one option which is legal, legitimate and in accordance with the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education and I will remind you that absolutely and in all such a procedure is applied to the establishment of the University of Koprivnica, the University of North and the University of Sl. The ship. Law establishing the University of North, i.e. on the transfer of founding rights to the University of North to the Republic of Croatia adopted 18. Six. In 2015, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. 3. says the procedure for the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North does not apply the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, which is regulated by the initial accreditation procedure. So, it's exactly the same procedure. Likewise, the Law on the University of Sl. Ship, same formulation, Art. 2. that I do not read it again, so without the initial re-accreditation process or model as it is applied here, so through the status change of accredited programmes, it has already been pointed out several times that the programmes currently being implemented at the Military School of Dr. F. Tudjman, they have a neat initial accreditation, so I wonder why and why so much noise, so much remark and so much grace, and what exactly are the double criteria if the same procedure is applied to the establishment of two previous universities, and in 2015, when these two laws were passed, then that was not the problem? So for me, these are double criteria. Similarly, when we talk about quality assurance and application of the Law on quality assurance of work, the work of the University of Defence and Security is clear in art. Article 28(4) of the Law provides that the minister in charge of education is obliged to initiate the procedure for re-accreditation of the university in accordance with Article. 22. The law on quality assurance in science and higher education within 6 months. from the entry into force of this law. 3 I will just remind myself, reaccreditation is carried out by an independent Agency for Science and Higher Education, a clearly defined re-accreditation process based on the quality assessment of clearly established 5 standards. So these five standards, the standard of how long it allows me, I'll just say some of them. Internal quality assurance and social role of universities, study programmes, teaching process, teaching and institutional capacity and ultimately scientific activity. Let this university pass the re-accreditation, the outcomes of the re-accreditation or accreditation recommendation 3 possible, issuing a certificate of compliance, issuing a letter of expectation with the deadline for removing the deficiency, the lack of 3.g. or the short-term performance of the activity. Three possible outcomes. Why are we insinuating in advance something that we're not sure is going to happen? Let's let it go, let's give it to the university, let's support the establishment of this university, and then we'll all take care together about meeting the quality assurance criteria of this university. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7165	We've got a few replicas, we've got more exposure, first is the respected representative Mark Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7166	Dear colleagues of Bedeković, here you were in the previous meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, you made it very clear that similar laws on the University and North and Slavonski Brod have the same formulation to be accredited. Therefore, the arguments of the opposition that something under the table is being done, that it will not be quality, absolutely not stand. It seems to me that there is more of a question of ideology, that there is a question of both weakness of the military and capacity and hatred and according to the first Croatian president we heard this morning, not arguments for the development of military studies and studies for Homeland Security. This school or university will contribute to this development, contribute to strengthening our capacities, and ultimately most NATO members have such standard and centuries-old traditions of such universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7167	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7168	Thank you very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, Of course, if there is a real concern behind all these remarks about the quality of work and future and staff and the quality of study, therefore at this university, then it is justified to worry about meeting all the conditions and expectations, so reaccreditation and its results and a positive intention to make the university stand and to move on. And if there's something else in the background, then obviously there's a rock in a shoe that's hurting someone, and I can't think of anything else but that it's about, therefore, some other problems, and perhaps ideological nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7169	Next replicas of the respected representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7170	Thank you. Yes, of course there's a rock in the shoe that stings us, and what's going to vote for this bill would knowingly violate, I repeat, the constitution and the law itself. So, you mentioned here and you relied on the University of the North, so in the 9th Assembly, you sent a bill that didn't even predict recredit within 6 months by science and higher education resistors, so now you've installed it in this second legislative proposal. However, what is different from the existing university, and related to the military university, is the following, is what they had accredited university study programs that they owned and what they had staffed. I asked you one more time, and I asked your colleague Tudjman, so he couldn't answer me. How do you plan to solve the coefficients for the fit at the future military university and how, therefore, plan and resolve progress, since it is not something that the defence minister can approve of his by signing than passing [[Intruder: Thank you]] So the whole procedure? [[/Intruder: Dear, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7171	Dear Representative Bedekovic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7172	Thank you very much. So, no. One, to make it perfectly clear and to repeat it again. Studies currently carried out in high, military, Croatian Military School are accredited with neat passers-bys, that's the first. Secondly, a matter of coefficients, a matter of advances by teachers who will teach at the university is not the subject of this law. Progress, the coefficients are not governed by the Law establishing a university but by other acts which must, of course, comply with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, with the Rules on Progress and with all those other acts, which the Ministry of Science and Education has authored.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7173	And the following replicas of the esteemed representative Sabine the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7174	Dear colleagues Bedeković, you know that I appreciate you both as a colleague and president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and as the former head of a higher education institution. There's no dispute, and I always make it loud in public, but today I have to admit I'm surprised at you. I'm surprised because you're garbageing with my mind seems one important fact which is one important obstacle to the establishment of this university and the denial of the basic rules in the system of higher education, which is the fact, and you know it very well, that this university is founded without the prerequisite that is needed, and that is to cover at least two scientific areas and more fields. It is a serious conflict with the positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia and it is a pebble in a shoe that stings us, no ideology but pure denial or deviation from the regulations that determine this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7175	Thank you very much. Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7176	Thank you very much. My colleague Glasovac, I am surprised at you because you are surprised at me, and I am surprised at you because a few years ago when you were an employee of the Ministry of Science and Education and when it was passed, the Law on the University of the North was passed, all of what I am saying today and the same methodology applied to the establishment of that university, so you didn't have any objections to it, and you absolutely did not, therefore, make any remarks of this character where I can't think of anything else but that there are double criteria. As far as respect is concerned, 54. The Law on Science and Higher Education, currently at the High Military, at the Military University of Dr. Franjo Tudjman conducts 7 study programs. Military leadership and management, military engineering, military shipping, homeland security study, take a closer look at the programs and assess how many scientific areas and how many scientific fields These programmes are implemented, and this is certainly more scientific areas [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and fields of what the law requires. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7177	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Radolovic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What is the item of the Rules of Procedure...?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7178	That's right, he's hurt. 236, a colleague of mine is false in the Croatian Parliament, which is easily verifiable from documents, archives and phonograms and HS itself and the minutes from the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there were some remarks that we had made, all who were too high, and we put them in the draft law that was finally and passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7179	So whether someone is telling the truth or not tells the truth has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. I give my notice because you have abused knowingly abused this institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure make it clear in their article on what they refer to. So if someone is telling the truth or not, I can't judge. If I were to estimate it, probably 3/4 people would get a warning or be thrown out because they're saying all sorts of things. However, it is a parliament so that up to a certain limit can be spoken, and there are things that cannot be said, and you must not abuse the institution of the Rules of Procedure when 3 replicas are fired, and instead of 4 you have no right to, then that is where you used it. Now, that's not to be allowed, and that's why you get a warning, and every next one will get.../incomprehensible/... also a reminder. I've announced it before. I'm on my way to see Benevolence, and I can see that it doesn't pay off, so I have to stick to the Rules of Procedure strictly. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, colleague Bedekovic. We will now return to our point that we discussed before and proceed with the individual debate and will first speak in this second part of the respected representative Rade Simičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7181	Here I thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of founders, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, viewers and viewers. Now, my vision of the founding of the university has calmed down a little. It means that all legal standards are respected. So we have before us a proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security and establishing this university will create assumptions for further development of Croatian armed forces and will strengthen preparedness for the challenges of the 21st century. The establishment of the University of the Homeland Security System will receive strong proportionate support as this would allow for the implementation of university and lifelong programmes for the needs of homeland security at all levels. The saying “Knowledge is power”, always applies to all systems. Investment in education, whether civil or military, is a fundamental task of this government and it is a necessary prerequisite for a better tomorrow for all of us. The model of education from cadets to universities is the result of thinking about people who have passed the Homeland War and who have created this country and who have already realized that without knowledge there is no victory. We have extraordinary officers who have acquired their knowledge, skills and abilities in the Homeland War and who will educate young people for all the challenges. We also have that Bible that “Man should pray as if he were a favorite of God but also create and work as if he were going to live for an entire century.” University studies that were divided into universities in Zagreb and Split will now have their own titler, as this law provides. Among other things, the name of the university and the founders of the university, the activities of the university, the governing bodies of the university and the status of students and the conditions of enrolment, property and funding of the university, the employees of the university, the exercise of supervision of the lawfulness, the manner and conditions of implementation of the activity is evident. This is important to stress that actually financial resources for the needs of this university are already provided. There are study programs and all that is necessary for the university's work is provided by this law. People, so people, content and finance exist and I want to say that this will further strengthen the readiness of Croatian soldiers, and the Croatian soldier already has the heart as Velebit and is always ready to defend his country. And finally, I just wanted to ask the founder who's going to keep intellectual property and who actually has the right to enroll in this university and who's going to, who's going to study? And finally, this university will be named after the first Croatian president, Dr. Franji Tudjman to the pride of all Croats and Croats and those who regard this country as their homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7182	Thank you very much. Stay a moment we have one replica of the respected representative Vesna Bedeković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow I would just like to add that I agree with your presentation, and I would like to point out once again that this university will first and foremost provide one quality basis for the development of military skills as a science, and therefore one quality basis for studying at this university and for building our military staff, and this will certainly contribute to Croatia's future and as a member of the EU and NATO in this part of Eastern Europe taking over the primate in military science and doctrine and it is very important to point out again and again, and, of course, it is necessary to make clear and make clear that this university is primarily in the interests of Croatian society and in the interest of the future of the Croatian Army which has defended and freed Croatia in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7184	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7185	Here, I agree with the esteemed colleague, that we really need a university especially military university as I have said we must create a Croatian army to be willing not only to defend the borders of our country, but also we have witnessed that on all occasions any elemental disaster bearers of all major activities are actually Croatian soldiers who actually love their homeland immeasurably. And so now I can say here they're not looking for anything but that the country loves them just as they love their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7186	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7187	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say something about the Proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security in the first reading, because if it was necessary to establish the University of Defence and Security with all possible disputes, and I think today's debate should be one of the reasons why it should be established. Fascinated by the inability of individual MPs and MPs to deal with the created Republic of Croatia, we should always be motivated by further development and regulation of the state on a higher level until such ones may give up on some of their wrong views or until they have come to their senses, and perhaps we should leave them to live in that time that has long run them over. Because it does not drive them crazy from just mentioning today, let's say this University of Defence and Security, they are always excited by the mention of the Croatian Army or the first president of Dr. Franjo Tudjman is already driving them crazy and everything that has been positively done in the past 30 years or what makes this country a state, and so is the military force. They're still showing up on the mention of new military planes, so to speak of this university. We heard that the Croatian Army budget also bothers them, absolutely everything that needs to ensure the safety of every Croatian citizen in order to calmly and unburdened by going through what we went through in the '90s to think again about whether or not we need the Croatian Army. What's the problem with that? They like to look over the board and say it's well done in America, it's great done in Germany, but we stay where we are, we don't move, it's always enough and we don't need better. Therefore, this legal framework clearly resolves everything that is intended as law, name, seat, founders of the university, activity, governing bodies of the university and their jurisdiction, status of students, and conditions for enrolment of candidates who wish to enrol in the university. It resolves the issue of property and funding of universities, employees of the university itself, the exercise of supervision of labour law and general acts of the university, the methods and conditions of carrying out activities until the start of university work. And what's the problem? We've heard, there's not enough resources, they're not foreseen. I don't know anyone or anyone who I don't know the moment he decided to build a house but had already secured his own financial assets in the overall relationship or any other infrastructure project or which we had already passed and heard that we had founded some universities of the North, Slavonski Brod and that it was always in the same or similar way. The funds are provided, provided annually, but first we make something real, and then what we need to do to make it work will certainly find its place in the state budget. But there, and that was enough reason for some to find that this should be withdrawn even from the procedure because at the level of one trainee in some weaker law firm, after passing all the services, the ministries, all the government bodies and coming through the parliamentary approvals to Croatia, at the meeting of HS. So much for having the opposition and those who think Croatia in the future, but not only in the future, but today or tomorrow. What does this law have to do? It must unite finally what has been historically developed at lower levels of the system of science, and this began in the 1990s and it was normal for us to in '91. We have some officers' courses in Varazdin, Zagreb, Samobor, so that in December we already have an HV Officer's Centre, so the Honorary School established in '92 and to this day that we have the Croatian Military School Dr. Franjo Tudjman, who conducts 7 university study programs. It's obvious we're in our 30s. We went up, with a ladder more or with better thinking. This is still another step of responsibility and debt towards the Croatian winning army, and the country's sustainability and future. There are those who have promised as Mrs. Peovic return the glow to five-pointed stars and Rijeka, the city of Rijeka, the same star that continues to greet "death of fascism of freedom to the people". Those are the ones to be left to live in that time, and the people recognize them very well. They may have had a chance at the moment, but I'm afraid with such attitudes in the future they'll move on. It is up to us to identify ourselves further as we did in the '90s for Croatian coat of arms and HV and a ready Croatian soldier who is equipped and lead wisely, wisely guided to meet all the challenges that lie ahead. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7188	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Vesna Bedeković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7189	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I will look back on this part of your debate in which you said you were fascinated by the inability of a certain part of your colleagues or colleagues to deal with modern Croatia. I am fascinated by double standards and double criteria when it comes to applying the Law on the Quality of Science and Higher Education in applying this law in terms of initial accreditation through the status change of accredited programmes as a legitimate and legal procedure already applied to the establishment of two universities, which is the University of North in Koprivnica and the University of Slavonski Brod. Both laws were passed in 2015. at a time when today's opposition was in power and then it was no problem at all, and today it is today and now, when it comes to the establishment, establishment of the University of Defence and Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7190	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7191	Thank you very much, Vice President. We were witnesses of that time, and here are some MPs who were then assistant ministers in education, etc., who at that time had nothing to do with it, today we have been fighting with it for a long time and an inheritance, but also trying to always be better than them and citizens see it. What fascinates is the left side of the assembly, i.e. the left political block after 30. The independence of the Republic of Croatia has failed to find any personality, any new insignity to which we would worship beyond the star and Tito, they are not going, and that is obviously some direction that we will look at in the future, perhaps 30 years. In the future, we will talk about this star, Tito and the team, these famous times that we have clearly solved in the '90s, and which citizens will continue to make clear when they are in the elections between those who know what to do and how to do it and those who keep thinking, and never make the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7192	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7193	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to start a speech like this the way I'm going to start, but I have to because I've just been challenged by some colleagues and colleagues. We are used to many drilling in the chest of patriots, while with one hand on the heart, and the other in their pocket robs the Croatian people and does not hesitate to use it or abuse the Homeland War, people who have given their lives and health to the Republic, and very often to the first president of the Republic of Croatia. But it saddens me that today when we talk about this law in the same way you're covering up some stories by trying to hide that you're working and trying to work illegally. Please don't subdue, no one here at HS today has said that it is against improving the quality of education for the needs of national security and the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. No one. You can't plant that, especially not my 2014 party. started with processes to improve the quality of education precisely for the needs of these two systems and you know it very well. What we're talking about today is the legal framework. We warned you a few months ago and asked you to make things right. You didn't do anything. You can freely call this the Law on the Violent founding of the University a decree past the positive legislation of the Republic of Croatia in the system of science and higher education that is worth absolutely to all higher education institutions in the Republic of Croatia and you know it. And do not plant and invoke the University of North and University of Slavonski Brod. It's not the same at all. Why? First we will talk about funding and competence for all universities in the Republic of Croatia and also the University of Slavonski Brod and the University, in the north, the North, to which you call, is responsible in all things the Ministry of Science and Education as it should be. Two key laws were respected, that is, the Law on Science and Higher Education, as well as the Law on Quality Insurance. They're being funded, from where? From the items of the Ministry of Science and Education. That's not the case here. Here you derrogate two key laws, i.e. you do not respect the Quality Insurance Act or the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. You transfer the jurisdiction of control and surveillance to one ministry, it's the MORH, and through that ministry you will finance this university. So it's not the same in any way. This is a special case, this is a precedent that you introduce and don't frame. Second, you say, the same way they started. No, gentlemen, it's not true. The University of the North was created by the merger of the University of Media in Koprivnica and the University of Varazdin which had ceased to exist by establishing the University of the North. Students transferred, everything was clear. The University of Slavonski Brod was formed by joining the Veleučište in Slavonski Brod, the Faculty of Engineering in Brod, the dislocated studies in Slavonski Brod, the Faculty of Education and Educational Sciences and the Student Centre in Slavonski Brod, which had ceased to exist and became the constituents of this new found university. Third, it was law-abiding because both of these two universities that you are constantly calling on today and you keep saying that someone was doing the same by not wanting to admit that you are doing this precedent, meaning the basis for the establishment of a university, which is that the university could be founded, must, or must contain within itself, satisfy the precondition of the existence of at least 2 scientific areas or fields. They also had the University of North and the University of Slavonski Brod. You don't have it here. You only have one interdisciplinary area and seven study programs, which you could barely establish, and we're talking about a university here. One thing's for sure. If you start this, this will be the least university, I mean in Europe and in the world. So, gentlemen, please, in the end, don't plant it. We have nothing against establishing a new university or improving the quality of education for the needs of the military defence system, national security system, but please respect Croatian laws. That's all we ask. Until you do, our support will be gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7194	Thank you very much. We have one replica, respected representative Matko Kuzmanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7195	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Glasovac, you have well noticed, whenever it comes to certain irregularities in some law that is currently on the agenda, a colleague from HDZ regularly finds some ideological problems 70 years old to remove the real topic from focus. This is about the law and respect of laws and certain procedures that are not respected, and I think it's extremely inappropriate to invoke anyone, especially things that none of us here mentioned, none of us mentioned any ideological division, any insignificance or any traits. We were just talking about some objective things that were going to change here. So full support in what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7196	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7197	Thank you, colleague Kuzmanic. Yes, in the absence of arguments, and when you do some very legal things, then you reach out to the charges, which is regularly covered by ideology. It's a constant. Just like constant and deception to the public and lies. They knowingly, the promoter deceives and lies to parliamentary representatives. Why? Because it says that this law does not produce any financial effects. Come on, come on, come on. That's incorrect, that's a lie because in art. 2nd, 7th very clearly says, this university will get a rector. The rector's costing something. Art. The 9th Presumptive Framework for One or More Proctors. That's what it costs. So, knowingly, they deceive us and lie, refer to the parliamentary procedure of false information documents, there's no answer here, we haven't heard the answer yet, we won't even hear it, but it's important to talk about ideology, not answer specific questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7198	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7199	Dear vice president of HS, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here's today we've had the opportunity to hear more debates about the agenda point, which is the law on the establishment of the University of Defence and Security. There was also a debate about the rector, professors, salaries, everything, just not the most important one, whether there was a need to form one such university or not and why. Personally, I think there is a need. Security is a prerequisite for everything. Without security there is no economic growth, no investment, no investment. As a country, we are as strong as our economy is because we can single out so much for science, education, health, sports, culture, etc., and all that matters to us as a society. Also, not a word about today's security challenges, and these security challenges exist. War conflicts never again. Terrorist attacks and threats, too. Migration, according to UN data 272 million in motion, cyber threats, organised crime, epidemics, we are wearing masks here today because of such an epidemic, climate change, etc. All of this requires under a) timely and under b) appropriate response, and in order to be able to respond in time and in time, we need to have trained, equipped, educated all safety components starting with the military, police, security services, civil protection, firefighters, customs, inspectorates, etc. In the last meeting of the HS, I participated in three Interparliamentary Conferences on the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the EU's common security and defence policy. In fact, every country that holds the presidency of the EU is obliged to organise such a conference. After the first conference that I attended in Romania, when you analyse what national parliamentarians are discussing, you come to the conclusion that representatives from the north of the EU or northern Europe are primarily discussing climate change, representatives from Eastern Europe on the annexation of Crimea, from the south of Europe on migrant crises and demographic boom expected in sub-Saharan Africa, and representatives of the national parliaments of Western Europe on cyber threats. There was still no outbreak of the coronary virus and, of course, there is still a debate about war conflicts, organised crime and the like. Each country, if we do a little research on what it is doing with the defense, is taking great care of that segment, and among other things, Finland is getting 64 fighter aircraft. Since two years ago, Sweden has imposed a mandatory military deadline, Germany plans to allow its armed forces to enter EU citizens. So almost all the countries in the world hold the security issue as a matter, so I'm surprised that some of our colleagues are so easily discussing one of these extremely important issues. I repeat, only a trained, equipped, trained soldier, officer, fireman, member of the Secret Service can respond in due time and adequately to the security threats of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7200	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, so stay here, please. She is one of the respected representatives of Matko Kuzmanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7201	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representatives, Uncle. At the beginning of your presentation, you said something that I absolutely agree with and I really support it, which is that our country is as strong as our economy is. I hope, therefore, that you and your party will also work to modernise and improve our burdensome system and thus strengthen the Croatian economy without a strong economy there is no strong state. And you've noticed this well that all the serious countries are dealing with security issues is today becoming one of the top issues and you yourself said that this includes today's crown crisis, which is the same issue of health security. I therefore hope that, in this interest and in this direction, you, too, will be placed as a party in the future when we talk in the next point about the 2019 MORH report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7202	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7203	Dear colleague. I agree with your views expressed in the replica. Since '99, the Republic of Croatia has been sending its soldiers, officers, officers on peacekeeping missions, to date on peacekeeping missions somewhere in the 27th, 28th countries of the world. Back in 3.4 years we sent them that they were equipped with all Croatian products, clothes, shoes, weapons, equipment, all products of Croatian companies or Croatian defence industries. I therefore believe that, in this regard, the literally ambassadors of the Croatian defence industry are in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7204	And the next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7205	Thank you very much. Comrade Striker, you are wondering why our opposition colleagues are discussing the security of the Republic of Croatia or such laws this easily. Because that's the position, the finger in their ear, and you don't worry about anything and you forget everything you've done. The story of the University of the North, and here you have made your contribution, you will tell them when you secured the first funds, we discussed it in the 5th month of 2015 at the time of the SDP, and I looked at what it said in their insurance law, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, "Let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, they didn't put in any more of this because they didn't care too much about it, and you'll say when you first put it into the budget and when it worked. And so this story, so there are those who know, they will and can do something, and they're going to do it, or they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to talk about it, and they've never made a decision, and these are the fundamental differences between the current relationship between the rulings and the opposition in HS. They never made big decisions, especially those that were loud today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7206	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7207	Thank you, fellow Boric. Well here since there was a lot of talk today about the University of the North, and I come from Varazdin is one of the centers of the University of the North means in Varazdin and Koprivnica, it is important to emphasize that when we talk about Varazdin, last year the government first divided the property owned by the University of the North and this is the first property that the University of the North has in its possession in the town of Varazdin. Also last year, the budget for this year was raised by 40% so that now, in this coming and coming years, they will have far more appropriate working conditions. I think they're doing really well, they're having a good fill-up, and it's going to be one of the better universities for me in the Republic of Croatia. And when we talk about this law and the position of colleagues, so here's after all these security challenges and threats I think there's still time to change your mind and support this law. And of course do it with amendments if they think there's a need.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7208	Thank you very much. Now we have a few club representatives who want to talk finally. In the name of the Homeland Movement, the esteemed representative, Davor Dretar, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Homeland Movement will probably support the adoption of this law or the establishment of a military school because, of course, we believe that at this time, at the time and place where our country is currently located, it will always be subject to security threats from many sides and of course we need a highly qualified, educated and professional defence force other than the Croatian soldier himself, of course we also need highly trained professional officers. But let me warn you, or draw attention to a few neglected data from a public debate, let me quote: “Last school years so 2018/2019 after the summer and autumn registration deadline at Croatian universities remained unfulfilled more than 11,000 places. At the University of Zagreb alone, which attracts the largest number of students from all over Croatia, more than 3,000 places remain unfulfilled. At Croatian higher universities, traditionally study a negligiblely small number of foreigners, so we cannot count on an increase in the number of candidates."There is one real good argument why the establishment of a new public university as a separate entity in the capital city of Zagreb is unnecessary and too expensive. It can, of course, be done in other ways through cooperation with existing public universities, first of all, through the launch of pre-graduate and graduate military studies at the Higher Police School, which could turn into a university of defence and security, or a strategic partnership with some of the existing public universities and the launch of pre-graduate and graduate military studies on them. One of the really great proposals from the public debate was the logical choice of Nikola Tesla University in Gospić. Why Zagreb? Do we have to centralize everything? Nikola Tesla University in Gospić is located extremely close to the three most important polygons of the Croatian Army, namely Eugen Quaternik in Slunj, the Red Country in Knin and the air base in Zemunik and, of course, also has the infrastructure to launch new studies. Let us not forget that the accommodation of such a study in Gospić would bring multiple benefits to the city's economy and Lika-Senj County, and that would be a very nice benefit. Teacherly, which is why, unlike all worlds, there are also Croatian trends in the launch of integrated institutions, this law tries to reconfirm an extremely expensive and proven less effective system of universities with additional legal entities of universities. Let us move forward, although Article 7 does not specify procurators, they are later mentioned in the remaining articles, and it is to be assumed that they are also foreseen by this legislative proposal as they are. The illustrations work on how expensive the project is here, it is possible to calculate that only 50 to 60 students with all the costs covered or covered the annual work of 12 to 15 scientists could be educated annually for the current non-existent salaries of one Rector, two vice-presidents, members of the Senate and members of the university council. The estimates are realistic, they are based on known coefficient data and the basics of annual salaries from basic collective contracts for higher education. So the Homeland Movement will probably support the establishment of this institution and this bill, but of course upgraded to amendments. I would just like to remind him of the beginning of today's day to welcome once again the respected Mr. Banozic and ask him if he comes in any way to resolve it procedurally. He did not answer my question when we are here and we are talking about security threats and that we have to have a strong and stable top-ranking Croatian military still holding a small military in St. Gera and there is an army of foreign states in the territory of Croatia, still in the current dispute with Montenegro about the peninsula of Prevlaka, there is, of course, Vukovar hell, so if we could ask the minister to somehow answer us here or here or in any other way why exactly the Slovenian army is doing this on St. Gera and why we do not remove them once and for all because if I have to collect 10 of my boys we will be able to solve it for one morning is no problem at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7210	Thank you very much. This certainly doesn't go into this topic, maybe the next one, but I'm sure it doesn't. The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sanja Radolovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7211	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs today for the last time on this agenda point is obvious that we will have to be children in kindergarten, not parliamentarians once more to repeat and adopt the material. So, the SDP did not, nor was it ever against the development of defence and security, although as we have said several times here today, we launched university study programmes in 2014 whose holders are the University of Zagreb and the University of Split, so together with the existing military school. I stress the existing holders of the University of Zagreb and the University of Split. So these programs are accredited and it's a matter of legal procedures for the transfer of these study programmes, and we know what the legal framework is. There are two legal frameworks with their sublaws, i.e. the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the Quality Act with existing sublegal rules on content and the issue of credentials. But let's start again. So, what's bothering us and why we can't support this bill right now is the following, the recognition of diplomats first, so how and how to recognise diplomas to students who acquire them at the future university. What we didn't get the question of today, and I'm actually very interested in that, why the university, why not college? Not a single parliamentary representative from the post, nor did the minister explain to us why he was going overnight to start a university instead of starting a college, much easier and financially, so humanely feasible, spatially feasible, and respecting an existing legal framework that would be competent, of course be the Ministry of Science and Higher Education? Next question of personnel. What we clearly ask is that we are not led astray and that under the assessment of the resources needed to implement the law, it does not indicate that the funding for the establishment of this university is already secured in the budget, but that it clearly states how they plan to finance first-hand staff in the new university? In what way will existing lecturers or non-officers be sent to a military university, how will they, in what way, progress? Who will finance the presentation at scientific gatherings, conferences, publication, so in magazines and bases needed under the Rules on Selection and Progress of Call, who will finance all this? At present, more than 50% of the hours carried out on study programmes, which I repeat again, the University of Zagreb and Split, are teachers and teachers, so people in scientific educational titles at the Faculty of Political Sciences in Zagreb, and in addition to that, a good question is being raised to which we have not received an answer today, the question of intellectual property. So these components are to say the carriers of these silos, they are the holders of these study programs, their professors have written these silos and the question of intellectual property itself is being raised. What is most in the eyes, so we are all constantly fighting with some constitution, constitutional categories, and here in the proposal of this law, this constitutional category is being touched by the autonomy of the university, and I repeat, that is where the University of Zagreb is ordered, the University of Split is ordered to submit study programmes to a new, newly established university, so military university within 60 days. I also have to say that it's against the law that no new e-consultation has been carried out. We've had opportunities, and there's a variety of MPs here today who read Art. 20. The old bill of law of 9 calls out without knowing that today we have a new document, a new bill that has been amended in some provisions. However, it was obviously not appropriate to comply with the law and to refer the bill itself to a new e-consultation procedure. The minister replied that if it was necessary that he would do so on our behalf. Of course it is necessary, and I don't think that we should even tell you that, according to the legal framework, it is necessary that the legal act referred to in the procedure to the Assembly, so that you refer it to e-consultation, especially because there has been a series of objections to human rights, to the spatial conditions, to the violation of the constitution and to the violation of the law itself. And finally, I'm interested, okay, maybe you can tell the Rectors of the University of Split and Zagreb to pass on their study programmes, but how you're going to pass on people, what you're going to ask them to do, to break down their existing labor contracts, to sign new contracts with the military university and move on to studies programmes that are illegal at the moment. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7212	The next Club of Representatives is that HDZ, finally speaking to the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7213	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, at the end of today's debate, and certainly during today's debate, we have exposed a number of dilemmas, resolved some of them, presented our recommendations, explained, explained and certainly opened the space to allow for improvement through various, therefore suggestions to the final draft of the law. What is important today is to emphasise that similar universities are to be set up by this law, which is about the University of Defence and Security, part of the EU and NATO member states, for example Germany, France, the Czech Republic and Poland, Hungary, and that we are not talking about examples of similar universities in the United States, and with them Croatian armed forces have very active cooperation programmes, and this needs to be highlighted. And when we answer, or when we ask ourselves what Croatia actually gets from the establishment of this university, it is above all necessary to say the possibility of strong affirmation of both Croatia and military doctrines and military skills, primarily in the field of Southeast Europe, and this university will certainly provide a quality basis for the development of military skills as science. And this is certainly the basis for Croatia as a member of both the EU and NATO in this part of Southeast Europe to take over, therefore primate in military science and military doctrine, and in this context it is necessary to make it clear again and stress that this university is in the interest of Croatian society and in the interest of the future, in particular of the HV which defended and freed Croatia in the Homeland War. What was today, here is somehow the biggest challenge to me and the most common subject of the debate, was the foundation of this legislative proposal on two laws, the Law on Scientific Activity and High Education and the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, and these are certainly, here are the recommendations relating to respecting or non-compliance with the law, above all when it comes to the Law on Quality of Restraint and the question of Initial Accreditation, where it is very clearly explained that the initial accreditation of this higher school or universities will be implemented through the status change of accredited programmes, this is a legitimate option, this is a legitimate procedure which has already been applied to the establishment, we mentioned both in Koprivnica and in Sl. The ship. Similarly, when it comes to the Quality Act, other than this status change of accredited programmes as a result of the initial accreditation procedure, Art. 1. has been defined as being initiated by the Minister of Science and Education and as regards respect and compliance with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education in the meaning of his Article. In 54. and therefore in terms of regulations on the number of scientific areas or fields needed to establish a university, I will reiterate and repeat that currently at F. Tudjman Military School, 7 studies, military management and management, military engineering, military maritime with two directions and postgraduate specialist study of Homeland Security. You have a rule on scientific and artistic areas, fields and branches, when you count these 7 study programs and when you place them in certain areas, scientific areas and fields, then you will see that this condition is also secured and that studies are being conducted at the future university which is currently being carried out at the F. Tudjman Military University, consisting of more than two necessary scientific areas and several necessary scientific branches, above all the social humanities, the field of technical sciences and certainly in the interdisciplinary field of science. And what's to end, I have a need to point out, certainly in the future it is necessary to take care of the parenting of the university of the future and these are defences and security sciences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7214	Thank you very much. The next club will finally be that IP, Smart and Glass in the name of the respected representative Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7215	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Now, while my colleague before me has said that everything that we've been saying on behalf of the club and during this debate, all those problems that have been raised on this proposal for the Law establishing the University of Defence has not been founded, I'm going to say here first and again that we have nothing against the development and higher education of officers and people working in security services and defenses, we think that this is very important and necessary. So it is not disputed that this part is being developed but is disputed by this bill, it is a questionable way of establishing this university. So this is not a secular issue for us, and we are not automatically against this idea, but we are against the way this university is founded. We are opposed to the way in which we are, or this process goes beyond the laws that regulate higher education in several articles and the proposal itself, what is special to us, I would say scandalously, that in the very proposal of the law in art. Paragraph 4 does not apply, therefore, to this process of establishing a university to the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education. So this is where we put a law that I write in. We're not going to follow the extra education law. So it's just inadmissible. You said that there are at least two scientific areas and a number of fields, we don't see them, in our view it's one scientific area and only one of its fields, I'm not going to repeat again, it's clear that people and study programs from the University of Split and Zagreb will move on to this university, in which way, it's not really clear the whole procedure and at the very end, it's also said that the implementation of this law does not require financial resources in the state budget. It simply cannot be, it is not true, and if the funds provided for the existing study programmes are, it will certainly need additional funding to organise the entire university and therefore cannot actually stand that assumption that additional funds are not needed. So to finish, we have nothing against the development of military sciences, against higher education, personnel in security services and defenses, however, they should be and should be developed but the university in this way is simply not good. Examples you listed, University of North and University of Sl. In a similar way, they avoided all these procedures, and if we have bad examples, bad practice, bad precedents, we do not need to follow them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7216	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honored Defence Minister Mario Banozic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7217	... MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Unfortunately, yes, I'll have to repeat the same thing several times because despite the debate, I can see that you didn't accept it. Transformation of Croatian Military University Dr. Franjo Tuđman in a highly educated and scientific research facility for the needs of the defence system is in line with the strategic guidelines of the National Security Strategy and the long-term plan for the development of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2015 to 2024, which was decided by the Croatian Parliament at its meeting on 12 December 2014. In addition to national reasons, it should be noted that the establishment of national higher education institutions for defence and security indirectly recommends a number of strategic documents, i.e. policies and scientific programmes launched by NATO and the EU. The University of Defence and Security opens up the possibility of equal participation in international military scientific research projects, so only military institutes and universities from joint military education curricula, which allows for stronger affirmation of the Croatian military on the international stage and further development of the compatibility of our armed forces with allies. Military universities are set up in large numbers of NATO and EU member states. In particular, the United States, Germany, France, Italy, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary with which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia traditionally have very active military cooperation programmes. The Ministry of Science and Education provides support and has been actively involved since the start of the project in the formation of the University of Defence and Security. Armed forces need an educationally qualified, motivated staff to act in complex circumstances of new threats and the use of modern technologies, and the independent University of Defence and Security is an excellent framework for the continuation of the already mentioned 7 existing study programmes in collaboration with the University Community of Zagreb and Split and the development of new specialized study programmes such as the university interdisciplinary postgraduate postgraduate study of Homeland Security. The University of Defence and Security shall meet all the conditions of establishment of a prescribed number of areas and fields in accordance with Article 54(1). Law on scientific activity and higher education. The University of Defence and Security will now be conducting university studies in at least 2 scientific areas following the acquisition of study programmes for the needs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The already mentioned military engineering, military management and military maritime management and interdisciplinary study of postgraduate study of Homeland Security. The procedure for the initial accreditation of each new university, as well as this, is prescribed by the Law on the provision of quality and science of higher education, which in Article 19 discusses the fulfilment of the necessary conditions for positive accreditation to carry out higher education activities. In the case of the University of Defence and Security, the main conditions are met, the contract with other universities for study programmes, the founding act, the relevant space and equipment, the financial guarantee, and the initial accreditation is carried out through the status change of accredited study programmes Article 1 and immediately thereafter recreditation means Article 28. In other words, the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education shall apply. No initial accreditation procedure is applied because these are already studies programmes that I have mentioned several times and have already passed the accreditation process. The method of accreditation through the status change of accredited study programmes is one of the methods of initial accreditation. As already pointed out, it has already been applied in the law establishing the University of North in particular Article 3, University of Slavonski Brod Article 2. The subject-laws state that the procedure for the establishment of a university does not apply to the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, National No. 45 of 2009 which regulates the initial accreditation procedure. Therefore, the Minister in charge of higher education is obliged to initiate the procedure for re-accreditation of the university in accordance with Article 22 after the entry into force of this law. Law on quality assurance in science and higher education, National Journal 45 of 2009. Therefore, the preliminary proposal for a law on the status change of accredited study programmes has been signed with the universities in Zagreb and Split, and the dynamics and method of transfer of study programmes will be determined by a special dynamic plan as set out in the proposal for a law establishing, the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security Article 27(3). Transformation of Croatian Military University Dr. Franjo Tuđman at the University of Defence and Security is a long-term process, so I said he would be in stages until 2032, which during the phase of transformation but after the completion of the transformation process will continue to cooperate widely with the University of Zagreb and the University of Split, while the University of Defence and Security will develop structural units and priorities from military professional subjects, so I also mentioned the tactics of armed systems, military history of command, supervision, etc., while general subjects of study programmes will continue to be organised and implemented with the support of the civil university community such as mathematics, physics, mechanics, mechanics, statistics, etc. Preparations for the transformation of the Croatian Military University were started by making studies on the transformation of the Croatian Military University into a higher school and scientific research base in 2012 and after the adoption of.../incomprehensible/... In 2015, by 2024 many programmes supported the development of the necessary scientific educational basis for infrastructure were launched. In the period from 2016 to 2020, 49 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were scholarshipd while 20 were enrolled in the Ministry of Defence in the Ministry of Defence in addition to self-financing, 21 members of the Armed Forces entered doctoral studies in the field of technical, social, natural, humanistic, interdisciplinary sciences. So we're talking about 70 doctors of science. The latest amendments, supplementing the Regulations on Scientific and Art Areas, Fields and Branches in 18.4.2016 on the initiative of the Ministry of Defence were founded on a specialized military scientific field of the 809th Military Defence Intelligence and Arts. The rules on conditions for selection in scientific teaching are laid down in the conditions for selecting the scientific reference for this field. In the long run, the University of Defence and Security plans to cover the entire educational vertical related to the previously mentioned scientific field, not entering any of the civilian universities in the field of action. In accordance with this, the development of a post-graduate doctoral study within the disciplinary field of the scientific field of military defence intelligence and skills is also planned in the long term to accelerate but also to preserve the development of military sciences and scientific and scientific teaching staff. The University could observe the development of an international military Academy of Cooperation and the exchange of teaching and non-teaching staff with full spectrum according to guidelines.../incomprehensible/... from 2015 and 2024 respectively. For example, Erasmus+ is not performed independently from, is not performed independently in the Croatian Military University, but through an agreement of foreign military universities with the University of Zagreb. The establishment of the University of Defence and Security provides a better framework for equal co-operation with NATO and the EU countries that have established and highly educated institutions, academia, colleges, universities on the coordination of military education and mutual cooperation within military and scientific research and military curricula. One goal is to allow recognition of diplomas acquired under the military education system in civil society to have a better starting point for another career after the military career ends. At the annual level of lifelong training and professional military education, more than 1400 members of the Croatian Army would therefore be allowed to be accredited within the framework of the University of Defence and Security existing programmes of lifelong training and professional military education, military school, command headquarters school, advanced officer training, etc. in the form of specialized graduate, postgraduate military studies, study programmes or adult education programmes in support of the transition of military personnel. The University of Defence and Security is designed to train future OS officers and other experts in state bodies whose activity is linked to defence and national security. Exceptional quality assessments and the great interest of other state authorities in sending their employees to the War School “Ban J. Jelacic” is a fact that confirms that. For example. War school is one of the internal programs of professional military education planned in the future to be accredited as postgraduate specialist studies, science programmes, military-defense and security-intelligence sciences and skills. The University of Defence and Security will provide a better basis for the development of military sciences or for the continuation of the development of the scientific potential, their choices in scientific elections have been called in line with the guidelines of the long-term development plan already mentioned. In the context of university defence and security, a centre will later be developed for defence and strategic studies to complete the absence of a state-run institution for military sciences or defence and strategic and scientific research of defence resistors as well as other legal entities and home security systems. The site centre would develop military sciences in all scientific areas on a particularly socio-technical interdisciplinary area. Education at the University of Defence and Security will be conducted for jobs within the framework of the defence system and home security system. For students with special contracted status of a military person, therefore cadets, about 500 to 600 students from the Republic of Croatia and foreign OS students will be developed and future study guidelines will be developed for support of the home security system. It should be noted that already now and at the university of study programmes and for the needs of OS performed at the University of Zagreb and Split, the class for cadets on all courses will not be performed together with civilian students but separately. There is a specificity of a military call or a way of processing topics, objects that require the separation of military personnel into a higher education system, which is a fact to other military universities in the world. So far, Croatia's military school, or MORH, has participated in very few applications for European funds projects, 4, of which 3 are successful because the only possible way to be in these projects is exclusively and not as a carrier. The University of Defence and Security, unlike the Croatian Military University as a highly educated institution, will have the opportunity to report projects for funding from EU funds in the capacity of the holder and majority beneficiary of funds where we primarily think about the development of new study programmes, programmes and practices of cadets, the equipment of classrooms and specialized cabinets. The University of Defence and Security will not require the provision of additional funding and infrastructure, as funding for the implementation of existing study programmes of military education and scientific research is already provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the division of the MRLs and the Ministry of Science and Education. The infrastructure of the University of Defence and Security shall be ensured by the transfer of ownership of the MORH from the work of the existing infrastructure of the Croatian Military University used at this time for the implementation of current study programmes and military education. Current programs, university studies programmes, military engineering, military management and management, military maritime, etc. and programmes... growing military education, war school, command headquarters school, advanced officer's school, officer's education, etc., adult education, primary foreign language school “Katarine Zrinski” and scientific research at the Center for Defence and Strategic Studies “Janko Bobetko”. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The University of Defence and Security in the work of staff is counting on the transformation of the Croatian Military University, i.e. ensuring the largest part of the staff of the current organisation unit of the Croatian Military University, i.e. the transition of the work of the doctor of science of current Croatian Military University associates and others of the designer units of the MORH and the OS of the Republic of Croatia. I have already mentioned that there are 45 of them and employment from the labour market and public procurement of specific non-military personnel. In line with the plan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in 2020 it was approved for the need of the Croatian Military University to receive 9 persons elected to the scientific calling and 9 persons elected to the scientific and educational calling for which they should be stressed that they are not new places but that the transformation of active military persons, military places into scientific and scientific teaching places. By the way of the contract of work, the Croatian Military School has at this time engaged 10 external associates selected for scientific and teaching titles, 8 and 2 who are the selection process for calling, who are not employees of other universities, but are mostly retired military persons, persons employed and employees of other state bodies. Therefore, it is not planned to take over staff related to current university programmes for the need of OS automation. I will also point out that during the period from 2016 to 2020 the facilities and infrastructures of the Croatian Military University are modernized and today the rooms for the accommodation of cadets, classrooms, specialized cabinets represent the very top of the accommodation education standards comparable to many world campuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7218	Thank you very much. Stay a moment because we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7219	Dear Minister, here, I think that the time has finally come since the early morning, here I am here waiting to make one team or we can tell the Croatian Parliament unit that can solve this problem, here our Mlinarić from the DP would go, we would take Mira Bulja from the Most, Pedju Grbin, this is the big guy, we would take Cacic and the Sovereignist and Djakic from HDZ, it would be one team to go to St. Geru so that we could solve it up or if we were to ask you a little bit seriously now, can you tell the Croatian public, what happens to this work of the sovereign Croatian country and what you intend to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7220	I thank you for asking. St. Gera's is...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7221	Minister, just for a little while, let me give you my word first and before I say again that this does not apply to this point and beyond the point, it could possibly be asked such a question at the next point, but here's the minister has a word, so he can answer or he doesn't have to answer as he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7222	Here I would only say that the issue of St. Gera is a matter of bilateral cooperation between, talks between Slovenia and Croatia and I as such believe that it will be resolved positively in what is really about Croatian territory, about former military facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7223	The next replica of the respected representative, Matko Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7224	Dear Ministers, I appreciate your efforts to invest in the education and training of military personnel in Croatia, and I also appreciate that in this way you certainly want to strengthen our economy, so I want to know how you feel about the fact that Hungarians have never produced combat vehicles from the European PESCO programme, while Croatia's Djuro Djakovic has a long history and experience in the production of the same? It would be an ideal opportunity for our military staff to prove themselves here and show themselves. Where we got into the PESCO program I see that cyber warfare programs, and for them we don't have any serious super computer for that use, and we don't have access to key network hubs, so I'm interested in your opinion on it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7225	Dear Minister Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7226	Well, at the beginning of today's presentation, I pointed out, so precisely the question of science and research and development in defence industry, and that's about what's on the trail of your question about connecting certain economic operators in one approach that is in... The theory called "Trple Helix Model" di you have simple public service cooperation, i.e. in this case the Ministry of Defence, the private sector and the scientific, scientific community, thus projecting and financing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] With regard to cyber-action, or cyber-action, we have today made just one decision at the government's meeting on multi-annual co-financing. In fact, through a project funded by America worth $4.9 million of which is $4.2 million is acquired precisely by cyber-functional computer equipment and cyber action where the Republic of Croatia will co-finance $780,000, so this is our commitment for this year + VAT which will be essentially through 2021 and 2022, which is somewhere around 7 million and some thousand kuna. It means something, so this whole amount, so we're going to be... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7227	Thank you. We have another replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, to return to this topic, I think the establishment of this university is very important not only for the development of the armed forces, but primarily for the development of pluralism and in the academic community, and it seems to me that maybe we should put this in a final position as one of the highlights of this debate. It was exactly who wanted to develop pluralism, who opposed it. Of course, some remarks may be on site and be well-intentioned that this university develops as high as possible, but it seems to me that the main question is how to have a better system of education and on matters of defence and security, but generally in our academic community how to continue to develop pluralism.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7229	Dear Minister Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7230	Here, thank you for the replica. In nature, I have tried to highlight in this final part all that I see that for some reason we have not understood if we have discussed these topics 4 or 5 times and the point is that at this point we are setting preconditions for further development of the university. I am convinced that with valuable work, dedicated work, investing in people, investing in study programmes, continuing cooperation and on civil universities, but also on this part of research and development, on a number of EU-funded projects, in this case as we now have, more exchange or transfer of knowledge between federal and partner countries on the development of military education, I think we can really come up with excellent results and I will be glad when we draw the line for 10 years and see what we have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7231	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Although we have two more points in advance, I would like to announce to you that we will continue tomorrow's session at 9:30 with a statement on the amendments first because we have a number of amendments to this so far on the concession law, and then we will start working tomorrow. Now we're going to move to the next point, which is: - Annual Defence Report for 2019. The holder is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 8. Defense laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Gender Equality. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Department of Defense Zdravko Jakop, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7236	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and parliamentary deputies. Annual Defence Report 2019 The Government shall submit to the HS in accordance with the Defence Act. The report is thematically structured as a demonstration of the state of activity of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence in 2019, and as a demonstration of the state and development of defence capabilities, the implementation of defence preparations, and the structure of defence resources and the achievement of key development projects and priorities. We believe that the report is an important mechanism of democratic control over the defence portfolio, since MPs in HS are given insight into the activities of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Ministry, especially in the area of development of defence capabilities and the availability of financial resources. The report also enables the public to see the achievements and work of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Ministry, which contributes to building trust in institutions in defence institutions and civil military relations. The increase in decommissioning for defence and fair distribution of burdens remains important NATO topics, and members at a meeting in London confirmed their commitment to the commitments that include reaching the 2% of GDP decommissioning, 20% of which for equipment and modernisation. The EU continues to carry out three key defence initiatives launched under the EU's Global Foreign and Security Policy Strategy, with ongoing structured cooperation, co-ordinated annual defence review and the European Defence Fund. During 2019, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Interior implemented a defence policy within the framework of the construction and improvement of the Homeland Security System and in the function of supporting the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. The defence policy was dedicated to the implementation of the obligations of the Croatian Army. It has worked intensively to prepare for the implementation of activities related to the six-month Presidency of the EU Council. One of the major achievements of defence policy in 2019 is the return of MiG-21 Rudolf Pereshin to the Republic of Croatia. After 28 years MIG-21 tag 26112 which is a hero of the Homeland War, Croatian pilot Rudolph Pereshin in October of '91. from Bihać flew to Klagenfurt, was returned in May 2019 to the Republic of Croatia. International defence cooperation is implemented with the aim of the international defence affirmation of the Republic of Croatia and is a direct contribution to strengthening the reputation and further affirmation of the Republic of Croatia, as responsible members of the international community. The activities of bilateral defence cooperation during 2019 focused on deepening relations with strategic allies and defence partners with the aim of contributing together a stable global and Euro-Atlantic area, developing defence capabilities and strengthening Croatia's reputation in the international community. To contribute to the development of the Croatian economy, activities have continued to support the promotion of the Croatian defence industry abroad and during foreign delegation visits to the Republic of Croatia. People are the greatest value of the defence system, and in the government's mandate, the focus of working in the Ministry of Defence is human. He's the center of the defense system. During 2019 it was continued with the implementation of personal policy – a soldier in the first place, launched in 2017 in order to achieve and maintain a high level of motivation and readiness of HV members. This implies adopting a series of measures by adopting, aimed at the well-being of soldiers, officers and officers, improving their status, living and working conditions, as well as introducing new forms of incentives that ensure a smooth reception and retaining of quality staff. The management of material resources is focused on the material disposal of the defence portfolio through the activity and equipment and modernisation of weapons and military equipment, supply of material resources and management, planning and construction of real estate. Rational and efficient management of material resources is one of the basic preconditions for improving defence capabilities and maintaining an adequate level of HV preparedness. Equipment and modernisation of arms and military equipment during 2019 were implemented with the aim of achieving the capacity to carry out HV missions and tasks including support in achieving NATO's capacity targets. Implementation of programmes and projects, equipment and modernisation carried out in all three branches of HV, in line with priorities defined through the defence planning and programming process. MORH is an important partner and promoter of the Croatian defence industry and is one of the generators for the development of top Croatian products. The Croatian soldier is fully equipped with Croatian weapons and personal equipment. During 2019, the equipment of the Croatian Land Army was continued with weapons and military equipment by the already started projects with a new project of equipment for combat vehicles, infantry which are in some way an initial phase. In line with the regulated priorities of the HV, modernisation of Croatian Navy equipment is focused on 3 main areas and this coastal resilient ship, the right-wing ship and the mini-manufacturer and the sea-fishing control boats that have been achieved in cooperation with other ministries. In 2019, activities and equipment and modernisation of the Croatian Air Force were aimed at obtaining multi-purpose UH-60-N Black Hawk helicopters, obtaining a multi-purpose combat aircraft, establishing logistics support for OH-58-D Kiowa Warrior helicopters and obtaining flight and parachute equipment necessary for carrying out tasks and planned training. In 2019, MORH signed military equipment contracts for the needs of the Croatian military with 34 Croatian military equipment companies, providing services and performing works amounting to 314 million kuna, which is more than 32 million kuna compared to 2018 and no procurement has been classified. Or a secret, as some say. Contracts with Croatian producers are a significant contribution to the Croatian economy and show that the MORH is not only a consumer but also a generator of development and promotion of Croatian products, the Ministry of Defence provides full support and actively participates in the development and promotion of the Croatian defence industry through international bilateral and multilateral activities, particularly within NATO and the European Union. During 2019, activities were continued to implement the new operational schedule of the Croatian military by returning to Vukovar, Varazdin, Ploče, Sinj, Udbin and Pula. In order to improve the conditions of accommodation and work of members of the Croatian Army during 2019, buildings were reconstructed and constructed at six new key strategic locations, such as Vukovar, Varazdin, Ploče, Sinj, Udbin and Pula. Construction of reconstructed buildings was also built at other important locations for the accommodation and operation of the Croatian Army. Since the start of the term of office, the Government has been systematically dealing with the issue of security and after six years of consecutive decline, an increase in the defence budget was ensured in 2017, primarily in order to improve the standards of members of the Croatian Army and develop new capabilities. The Croatian Army is the main holder of the defence function in the Republic of Croatia, in addition to the fundamental constitutional role of protecting sovereignty and independence and defending the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Army is always at the disposal of citizens in its capacity to provide assistance in any kind of emergency. Through its continued engagement in Missions and Operations and other forms of international activities, the Croatian Army has become a brand and more than brand in the perceptions of our allies and partners through a high professional approach to the performance of its tasks. The requested capabilities for the implementation of the Mission and the mission in the Republic of Croatia and abroad are achieved by the Croatian Army through training and exercises whose management system is arranged with doctrine and consistent with available training facilities and financial resources, i.e. better put in place under the approved financial means. During 2019, training was conducted while adapting the structure of the Croatian Army, the Centre for the Development of Leader Marko Babic was established, respecting new challenges and needs, training is based on developed standards and experiences from the Homeland War, but also in collaboration with our partners within NATO. Public relations activities in 2019 were aimed at timely and transparent public information on the work of the Ministry of Defence, as well as at the operation and execution of the basic missions and tasks of the Croatian Army, with the focus being placed on maintaining public perception in the activities of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army through information, publishing of press and multimedia electronic publications, and through the promotion of military calls. We have prepared a more detailed report for you, I am standing here for all questions, clarifications, and I would like to thank everyone who, this one, for these three committees we had the opportunity to do, this one, to present this report before coming to the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7237	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? Franco Vidovic, chairman of the Defence Committee, and sorry, sorry, sorry, the replicas are, do you have replicas, stay, Franco forgive. A few replicas, the first distinguished representative of the Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7238	... Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. [[Last-on speaker]] Can you answer the following question in one sentence, did the Croatian Army carry out all the tasks put before it in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7239	I'll answer in one word, yes. Thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7240	Okay, thank you. Another replica of the distinguished representative Matko Kuzmanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7241	Secretary of State, on the 66th side of your report, strategic stockpiles of murder funds and surplus management, is said to be mostly between 22nd and 52nd with a large number of small series of different producers, so I wonder if there is a plan to remount and modernise these funds using domestic companies? I also wonder if there is a plan and an intensive training programme to spend as much resources as possible through training before they run out of time? There is an example of the modernization of VBR 122 rockets The city introduced by heads that have an initial GPS or laser guide to the goal. I'm also interested on page 61, on NATO's 556-caliber rifles, why are we going to equipment such a rifle plant in that caliber, when this tool is being reduced in use or thrown out of service because of the frequent observed tactical, technical, logistics deficiencies on modern battlefields? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7242	Thank you very much for your questions. I'll try to answer them very briefly. There's a plan of remont and I'm going to tell the general now who, who to the General of the Croatian Army, is glad to finally be after the Homeland War when, practically, at a time when we've lost our abilities, we've been able to restore the ability, not just a remont, let's say, of a certain kind of artillery ammunition, but also the production of artillery ammunition, so we're taking care of it. I'm going to say that we have more, no one happier than we are, but we're trying to keep in line with the approved budgets to make sure that what we have, to be as safe as possible and that we, this one, are ready to do, as was the question here, all the tasks, as far as we're concerned, are used and the shooting to spend what's the oldest, so I'm going to try to lay it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7243	Time. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7244	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, my replica refers to a question about the people. So the ability and the military depends on people, or those who use all possible knowledge and resources. And I wonder if you see any shifts in the fact that more women are involved and working and whether it was a shift in 2019 compared to 2018? And what are you doing to prove really and ready to open up and involve all those with great knowledge, because of course we can only take a step forward? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7245	Thank you very much for this question. And here's the opportunity to say right away that we have more and more women in the sense of new soldiers, and in the sense of cadets, more and more. candidate for officers, i.e. Croatian Army officers and we see it as positive. We're open absolutely open and we don't actually make the difference between men and women to be very specific.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7246	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7247	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, these days he ends up two years old that the Croatian Army has been returned to Ploče, which has contributed to security and stability... Croatia. It is particularly important to say that this way, that it became the gravity center of the Croatian Navy in this way. When I mention the Croatian Navy then I want to say something and ask you a question concerning the Coast Guard. We have already talked about the Coast Guard here in the Croatian Parliament on several occasions. We also talked about this when adopting a state budget and about the need to secure within the budget funds for the purchase of patrol ships. How much information I have in Brodosplit right now is building one ship for the needs of the Coast Guard. I am interested in the dynamics of continuing to purchase these ships, the more Croatia has declared a protected ecological fishing belt. Well, then we also have this constitutional, legislative obligation to monitor, monitor and protect our protected ecological fishing belt. Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7248	Thank you very much for this question. So, the prototype of the coastal patrol ship has passed all the testing procedures and is operationally used in the Croatian Navy i.e. The Coast Guard, which is an integral part of the Croatian Navy. And also until just before, the minister was recently on the dive of two locusts so that the procedure was continued and I hope that the builder will build it within that time limit as he promised. Thus, we would further increase the capacities of our Croatian Navy. Coast Guards to the good of everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7249	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7250	Thank you very much. State Secretary, you said this report says that a permanent mission is strengthening the Croatian Army and that mission has no alternative. I sign it. However, in the last year i.e. in the last few years, the Croatian Army has lost its ability to aviation, i.e. No public procurement has been made, has not been brought to the end of the battleplanes. What is the state of the MiGs now, which are also one of the major criminal acts that took place in the Republic of Croatia, where money was invested in Ukraine that literally went on a combat flight for a remounted aircraft, and they were returned to parts of the cariole? So what about the capabilities of the Croatian Armed Forces? Do you have enough pilots? Does the pilot's rhythm run out without planes and many of those questions where the skills are lost both because of last year's failure to get planes and because of the MiG's remonts that are... with the questionnaire? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7251	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7252	Thank you very much for this question and for the opportunity to say that Croatian Air Force as well as other branches carry out their constitutional obligations and can respond to all the challenges regarding airspace control within the framework of commitments undertaken in cooperation with NATO, and also in the protection of national interests and we have plenty of them. So some would be surprised how many we can use.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7253	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7254	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, here's the Croatian Army is a winning army and so should we stay and on the trail of this is now the establishment of the University to keep the Croatian Army strong, strong and capable of responding to every challenge. What I would ask you is the structure, the territorial structure of the Croatian Army. We see that the Croatian Army has returned to Vukovar, Split, Ploče, Delnice and my question is – tell me in which way the Croatian military is in synergy with the local population and whether you intend to expand more territorial structure and where - if possible say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7255	Your Honor, I thank you very much for this question. Through the question, you gave me a part of the answer, helped me. So, one of the reasons was that we could participate more easily, you know that the Croatian Army participates especially during the summer in the fire-fighting season and one of the reasons that we went south and so territorially that this cooperation can be intensified because the Croatian army was created from the Croatian people, Croatian countries and we are part of it, we want to continue. So right now, we wanted to get up in all those places where we've been deployed, as much as possible, the quality of life and the work of these people because one part of the facilities is built, and one is essentially renovated, and there's a need to get it up to the next, so we're not thinking at this point that it's still going somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7256	Thank you, thank you very much. No more replicas. I call on the committee's rapporteurs, the esteemed representative Franco Vidovic, president of the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7257	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 2nd session of 17 September 2020 as its parent body on the Annual Defence Report for 2019, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 3 September 2020. The Committee shall be based on Article 71. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report in question, and the representative of the proposings in the opening statement explained in detail the Annual Defence Report for 2019, which gives public insight into the work of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army. The Croatian Army is developing on the values of the Homeland War, and after less than three decades the plane of the Homeland War hero Rudolph Pereshin, who opposed JNA and MiG21 in October 1991, flew from Bihac to the Republic of Austria. In the year of military solidarity of recognition as named in 2019, projects aimed at improving the quality of life and work of members of the Croatian Army were continued. The construction of sports facilities has been renovated and many Western armed forces have been adopted by the Military Medals Regulations. The Ministry of Defence is an important promoter of the Croatian defence industry, which is why domestic economic and scientific research capabilities in the area of defence have been sought to include domestic producers to the greatest extent possible. As a result, contracts between the Ministry of Defence and 34 Croatian companies amounting to 314 million kuna were signed, representing an increase of 32 million kuna compared to 2018. Within the framework of the operational deployment, the Croatian Army's land component was returned to the military in Pula and was reactivated by the military in Udbina. The new capabilities of the Croatian military are developed through 3 newly established commands, cyberspace command, a centre for unscheduled aviation systems and a centre for the development of leaders. With regard to further equipment for the modernisation of the Croatian Army and the annual report, it states that activities have been launched in connection with the equipment of the Bradley combat vehicles, that the full operational capability of the Kiowa Warrior helicopter has been reached, carried out by MI171SH. In addition, the process of equipping the Croatian Army with helicopters Black Hawk has been launched and the final phase of integration of the remote-operated armed station and anti-armed missile system on the Patria combat armored vehicles has been reached. Since 2019, there has been a full operational use of the prototype of a coastal patrol ship, and further construction for 4 more ships has been agreed. The proposer also pointed out that in order to maintain the existing and develop new capabilities of the Croatian Army, it is necessary to ensure that the level of motivation and training of military personnel contributes to the improvement of material rights and conditions and the possibility of adequate military education at the University of Dr. Francis Tudjman whose process of establishment has begun. In a debate followed by a large part of the board members, it assessed the annual report as a detailed and detailed document providing a full overview of the situation, activities and defence capabilities. In the context of the Croatian Army's equipment and modernisation projects, a positive assessment of the focus on the domestic production industry has been made which affects the development of the Croatian economy and the employment of the population. As regards the provision of financial resources for the needs of modernisation and equipment, the opinion has been expressed that greater focus should be given to the EU-provided funds under the European Defence Fund. With regard to the activities, events and transactions presented, it is indicated that certain irregularities and unconsistent information is given. It was also pointed out that the report included uncoordinated data with numerical views for the same principle categories as data on reserve filling, data on the purchase of assault rifles and the number of sets of hidden uniforms obtained. After the discussion, the committee decided to propose a next conclusion to the Croatian Assembly, with 8 votes for and 2 abstentions. The Annual Defence Report 2019 is hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7258	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. At the debate on the first.../incomprehensible/... on behalf of the National Movement Representatives Club, the esteemed representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7259	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear State Secretarys, colleagues and fellow MPs here at our National Movement Club we had a good debate ahead of this important point, there were more critical opinions on this report. Later on, General Pracchin can say something about certain exhibitions. However, today I will state the club's position in principle. Introductoryly, I would say that we welcome the preface of this report the emphasis on the values of the Homeland War, patriotism, courage, sacrifice. A great price is paid for our freedom and it must not be forgotten. It should also be pointed out that Croatian soldiers, officers, officers are recognized in the world as very reliable and capable partners in foreign military missions. It's a fact and we can be proud of them. Here I would like to express my condolences, but also my thanks to the family of Joint Officer Josip Brishski, who died in Afghanistan and I would like to announce that his name will remain forever in the history of the Croatian Army and the Republic of Croatia. Also, we support the intention to continue with HV's equipment and modernisation projects. Here I will emphasise our position to emphasise our position that Croatia definitely needs to be restored to military aviation and we are inclined to cooperate more intensively with our strategic partner, the United States. We're already successfully cooperating with the Black Hawk helicopter's equipment, so we need to continue on that path. Our strategic commitment must be the transition to top military technology and we will insist on it. Croatian citizens have great confidence in their soldiers, which was recently seen in the devastating earthquake in Zagreb when they quickly helped people. This is exactly a good example, the activation of all available state resources under exceptional circumstances, and the military will always have our support in this regard. The report states that Croatia currently singles out around 1.7% of GDP for the military budget, which is a small increase compared to previous years, but should target 2%, which Croatia has undertaken as a commitment at a summit in London last year and is valid for all NATO members. The intention to invest 20% of the total amount, a little more than 5 billion kunas in equipment and modernisation, is considered to be a minimum of what needs to be increased, of course. It can always be better equipped with material resources. We are aware that at the time of the GDP fall, it is very difficult to achieve this, this increase, but we believe that we should pursue that goal. We need to isolate to be able to protect our national interests, not because others impose it on us, but because we ourselves are aware of what it means to take care of the key priorities of the state. I'd like to say something about the geopolitical context and the threats. The report mentions the global ambitions of communist China that are not limited to its traditional zone of interest. It is said that China wants to become a global power and is the main competitor of Western forces in the world. However, there is a broader and more critical reference to this fact. I would like to remind you that Croatia is intensively caring for economic relations with the country, so we see a major gap in government policy between the evaluations, for example, MORH and other resolutions. This is an example of an incompatible state policy. The report does not have a single word on border disputes still being conducted with neighbours. For example, the situation on the Serbian-Croatian border field dates back to the time of peaceful reintegration when Serbian forces were withdrawing from Croatia, but not only to the Danube and Serbia is now controlling part of Croatia's territory. Croatia still has unresolved disputes with Slovenia, mentioned earlier today, with BiH, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. We believe that it is necessary to insist on the full state sovereignty of our territory and that such a report must state the exact situation. The initiative we can absolutely welcome is the establishment of a multinational Divisional Command for Central Europe together with Hungary. The inclusion of both Slovakia and others is foreseen. This is a good example of how we can specifically improve cooperation with Central European countries, and we should continue on this path. In the end, I'd like to stress the following. This report should contain less information on held meetings and activities and more on strategic planning. The part relating to defence planning stands, for example. on half page, in a document of a total of 150 pages. The part on support for the Croatian defence industry discusses held exhibitions and conferences, but the question is to what extent has Croatia used its NATO membership to promote its own companies. Were there any concrete shifts here? What will happen, for example, to Djuro Djakovic? Is Croatia's strategic goal of survival? We think we should do more lobbying for our military industry and take advantage of the better opportunities we have available. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Homeland Movement will advocate strengthening Croatian defence capacities and we are aware that Croatia has its responsibility for peace and security in Europe and beyond, however, this report is permeated with bureaucratic language and phrases and irrelevant data, and lacks political assessments on many issues. For example. There is no word on the current situation in Serbia, Montenegro and other neighbouring countries. On the other hand, the values of the Homeland War must be cherished and appreciated in our society so that even younger generations are familiar with the circumstances from which the HV and the state were created. Names such as Josip Jovic, Blaga Zadar and Rudolph Pereshin must be proud and respectful of all our people and we will do everything we can to make it so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7260	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7261	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, interested in the public if anyone is watching, respected citizens. I would here when we talk about a defence report for 2019, of course, to start from that foundation and the foundation is what we all mention and how much we value it in society, the foundation of the community and the Croatian people is the Homeland War and Croatian defenders here at this time in the 1990s, '91s. When the ministry was formed from the then Ministry, from the MUP, from all people of folk protection, the units that were formed were essentially on naked young men, weakly armed young men, people who went to the country with their hearts, and that was our greatest potential and on the previous topic of the university law, you would have to say that the Croatian army, i.e. The Croatian state must invest as much in science as possible, in Croatian military sciences, in people and in knowledge of the history and skills of the Homeland War. I think that in the previous debate, I didn't have a chance to say it, but now I'm going to say it because we can't forget the Homeland War or just mention it conveniently, so let's go back to how the perjurys were numerous who were even top commanders, who were being humiliated, were taking down Croatian generals such as Stjepan Mesic, former president of the state, we have to remember these things or now the leader of HDZ i.e. HDZ manager Vladimir Seks when he said the tough words to Croatian generals who were leading the victory army, members of the HDZ usually tell you, mostly to your defenders, here is Mr. Davor, Mr. Tudjman, "locate, arrest, transfer, deliver" so that the domestic war certification has been constant since 2000. The homeland war must not be devalued or what counterpart Peovic said this morning that the Homeland War and the first commander-in-chief to run the Homeland War, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, no matter what they think of him, has led a criminal enterprise which is an absolute lie, which is a lie because we are a great bleed... I was 19 at the time, now imagine me and many of us here, here's Deur, all of us who were in the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a lie. Croatia was created in the Croatian people's community. I repeat again, no one asked anyone in '91. Was your father a Ustasha or a grandfather or a partisan but we're together and don't sit on the divisions that would be just here in this House. The Croatian people's unity has no alternative, there is absolutely no alternative. Criminals and convert robbers can either be Brodotrogira, followers of the Communist Party or I don't know, some who dick with some patriotism. Or robbing my money for a weapon from my son. The Tedeschi family, when will they bring him back? So here we are talking about a report about a Croatian soldier, about the truth, about the source of Croatia, about trust in the Croatian soldier because the Croatian people trust the Croatian army and we have to build it. And in the Croatian Parliament after the Declaration of Homeland War which was unanimously accepted during the Government of Ivica Racan, that the Homeland War would have been fair, liberating and that it was the obligation of the Croatian state i.e. Croatian governments do it. The Croatian Army was created by the Croatian police at the time, from Croatian national protection, later on were the units of HOS, the Croatian defence forces at the most difficult battlefields, we must not forget them, so when we talk about this, do not sell Croatian interests to the Jews as did perjurers who even managed the Croatian army. were presidents legally elected, such as Stipe Mesic who opened the archives, opened the archive in the Office of the President of the Homeland War that journalists film without any problems. So what kind of behavior is that? What kind of messages are these? The Croatian Army trusts the Croatian people. The Croatian Army is part of us. We're just interested in the truth about the Homeland War, and the only thing we can do is tell the truth about the Homeland War. Here I would, half the time I've lost because today I've been here all day as a man who's been in the system for 18 years in the morh, spent all my years, spent my youth both in the Homeland War and later as an officer of the Croatian army so I have an obligation to talk about this and I won't keep my mouth shut. And most of all, I don't care about attitudes, some different attitudes, Mrs. Peovic has a different attitude than I do but I'm more in pain with the hypocrites who called for patriotism, who said "to arrest, locate, transfer", they've been putting together a government for you both with Pupovac and Saucho, that's Seks. You run, you run, you run, colleagues, mostly you HDZ defenders, here I see colleague Deur, Mr. Tudjman was also at that time one of the key persons of certain defenses... in the service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when we talk about this, about the reports, then we need to talk about the Croatian soldier. Now I'm going to talk a little bit about the problems we have in the Croatian Army. The Croatian army has no alternative, no other mission, but to strengthen their abilities. Croatian Air Force isn't in good shape. I ask you in 2015 or 2014, I don't know when our MiGs went to this end, what about these MiGs, how much money was spent, and even we had a mockery from the media run by SDSS Milorad Pupovac, it seems to me Serbian news, both of them fell, when our MiGs fell, your coalition partner general, your coalition partner mocked. Uh, Mr. Deur, your coalition partner made fun of the HV that both of them fell when MiG's planes fell that this one, which you spent millions in Ukraine. So, we didn't do public procurement. We didn't get in line with the plans and the goals, and now I don't know what's gonna happen. Of course, when we talk about the Croatian Coast Guard, I deliberately say about the Croatian Coast Guard if you didn't call her that, I was giving amendments because it was the HoS, so they were afraid it wasn't called that, I don't know what they called it, someone else gave her a name, just so tightly threatened by their coalition partners that you don't know what name you'll be given anymore, and the next name should be how it goes. What about the ships that were supposed to be finished in 2015, '16? I think there's only one ship. Because you didn't have the strength you and your government, distinguished generals of state secretary and others, you didn't have the strength to accept the proposal to declare the IGP, which we have the right to international law. We have this right and what the Council of Europe tells us even we have the possibility and talk about how many amounts and losses the Croatian state has on what we do not control, our sea. The sea is also a territory. Why aren't we controlling him? When I talk here about HV, it was seen in elementary disasters, threats, that the Croatian soldier was first and in question in the very system of homeland security. I wonder what the government's position is. I saw the prime minister say HV won't go to the border to protect against illegal migrants entering. The only thing this secretary of state has done is close the borders so the Croats from BiH can't enter, for example. from Livna to Sinj must ić to Aržano, circle 70 kilometers longer, instead of opening Vaganj, everyone enters except the Croats through the border. Do you think that these abilities that the Croatian soldier has through the reserve, through what you are about to form, what you write in your report or is just a dead letter on paper, to include a Croatian soldier on the protection of the Croatian border since the entry of illegal migrants to make people feel safe in these areas because they are insecure for their property, for the safety of themselves and their children. Literally, people live in fear, people get kidnapped in Kamenski, they put a gun to their foreheads, and that's how they take them away. Economic, industrial, and even agricultural, the Ministry of Defence can help buy domestic agricultural products in areas where they live. I hope you can talk about it a little bit, and I hope you didn't agree to it like the government and the Ministry of Agriculture just under the import lobby, so bring this food product aside. Here's a short one, I hope that I can speak a little bit longer individually, and this one I expect from you answers and solutions of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7262	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the distinguished representative Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7263	Here's the esteemed vice president of the assembly, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state. People are the highest value of the defence system and in the 2019 defence report. visible, positive work is visible on this issue at the Ministry of Defence where the focus of activity was on man as a basis of the system. During 2019. continued with the implementation of the personal policy "soldier in the first place", launched in 2017. in order to achieve and maintain a high level of motivation and preparedness of HV members. By passing laws and amendments to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in December 2019. Pre-conditions have been created to further strengthen the standards of soldiers, officers and officers to make young people's service in the armed forces more attractive and not to face problems of an insufficient number of members of the armed forces already facing many EU countries tomorrow. I hope that the Ministry of Defence will continue to develop and further encourage investment in human resources as a priority for further development of the armed forces. The result of this approach is already visible in the 2019 report. where we see a slight increase in the number of active members of the armed forces, but which is still far less than 2011 and far, in my assessment, less than optimal numbers, an optimal number that the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia would have to have in view of the length of the border as well as significant changes in the conditions of political stability in our closer and wider circle. What concerns me in this report are insufficient investment in military equipment, weapons and strategic supplies of murderous funds and a lack of long-term strategic vision for the adoption of new technologies and resources. The acquisition of new weapons in general has come down to donations from the written resources of other armed forces, which ultimately should not be bad, but should be planned and targeted towards the acquisition of funds from our allies where our armed forces are disabled or where we do not have adequate resources at all. As for weapons in use in armed systems, it is evident that we have lost resources, as well as the professional frame we were already 20 years ago. owned. This report is particularly visible in the protection from airspace, which is not only the actual acquisition of a multi-purpose combat aircraft, but is only part of an effective and serious anti-aircraft system that we no longer have. At the same time, the acquisition of helicopter transport components has been launched although the situation is not in any way critical as in the protection of airspace. The resources of the anti-aircraft defense have been lost a long time ago, and the worst and the right professionals, and unfortunately because of our neglect of this area, we have to go de facto from zero, which is far more expensive and complex and time-consuming. In the area of the procurement of armed systems, it is most obvious that we must urgently adopt the long-term strategic objectives of the development of the armed forces. Age of the murderous assets between 22 and 52. As we have already heard today with a large number of small series and different manufacturers is also inadmissible, if we are also thinking strategically about our defence forces, it is necessary to adopt the standards of identical caliber weapons for making it easier, cheaper and more efficient to support the Armed Forces. Support to the Croatian defence industry is.../incomprehensible/... in a significant area on the rise, which is visible from this report and I think it is still insufficient and the development of the Croatian defence industry is still reduced to resourcefulness in.../incomprehensible/... entrepreneurs and often appropriate support from the state. Unfortunately, this is best seen on the example of Đura Đakovic, who, although owned by the Republic of Croatia, does not have adequate support and participation in the development of our Armed Forces and is in poor financial condition. As liberals, we strongly maintain respect for the fundamental roles of the state, and this is, among other things, national security involving the military, police and intelligence as the rights of every citizen, the security of citizens and infrastructure and the promotion of competition and the free market. Let us not fool ourselves, Croatia must have adequate and ready Armed Forces if we want to participate as a serious state that can retain and defend its territory and security and the lives of its citizens. If we will not successfully control land, sea and air, what kind of state are we? Our Club of Representatives will support this Report although it does not fully satisfy us as I have explained, but only the Report shows the good intentions of the MORH and the trend of development of the OSRH with us for now, an invisible long-term development strategy and the same. I hope that the representatives of the Government will take into account, in the planning of the 2021 MORH budget, because national security of the state and the resources where it cannot be spared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7264	The next debate is on behalf of the Party Representatives Club with the name and name, Smart and GLAS, the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7265	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state. At the beginning of the report, this report says that there are continued trends in competition between global and regional forces to gain advantages in the political, economic and technological and military domain, destructive actions of unsustainable actors and instability that cause so-called "sustainable". weak and failed countries, global climate change with negative consequences and accelerated development of military techniques and technologies that change the nature of warmaking and the use of military forces. And continues, the phenomenon of growth, development and enhanced use of distribution technologies for military purposes is particularly noticeable. Such a political and security context continuously generates and maintains a range of traditional and new security threats and challenges, from armed conflicts and terrorism, to various kinds of cybernetic and hybrid action, mass migration, life space degradation and extreme weather disasters. This is a direct quote of the report we are now discussing, so the defence reports for 2019 and in my opinion, are a good analysis of the current situation we are in. The old challenges, as classical weapons of conflict, remain all around us, but a whole series of new technologies together with different political, economic and environmental circumstances create a whole new world of potential dangers. The key question is, of course, are we ready and able to answer them? The defense has long been more than just a soldier with a rifle on his shoulder standing on guard. Today, the defence is done in sophisticated computer centres, through strengthening the security of telecommunications and energy infrastructure, to protecting against natural disasters and helping the civilian population when they find themselves in trouble from emergency medical conditions, to for example. Those images we had recently seen, they're tied to an earthquake. In this regard, it is positive that within the CV, awareness of new weather is being developed, especially through the cyberspace command, the centre for unscheduled aviation systems and the centre for the development of leaders. However, I have the impression, reading this report that still too little weight is placed on these new types of warfare and defense, that we are still trapped in the context of procurement, classical means, weapons and vehicles, and often, used. A special part of that is the purchase of aircraft. Since 2019, Plenkovic's government has had that fiasco with the acquisition of fighter planes that we all remember so well. And this report says that the idea did not give up and that a new process of obtaining a multi-purpose combat plane was launched. We now have opportunities on the portals, if we open them up a little bit, read them and see the debate, see what it is. But what I have to say is, I haven't yet, and it's been going on for years, I've heard a serious public debate on this subject. Also, I have not heard convincing arguments from those who advocate the acquisition of why Croatia should engage in something so extremely expensive. Getting a plane, you all know it well, doesn't just mean their price. The training of pilots, technicians, arms procurement, spare parts and maintenance equipment is not to be discussed at all. The surface of Croatia and its specific form make it further difficult to effectively cover and defend the entire territory by combat planes. In such a situation, there is a real possibility that a serious debate should really be held on modern anti-aircraft systems. But these are discussions we don't have in the country. Someone decided to go to this most expensive variant, real questionable efficiency and that's it. This kind of thinking is more important because it was in 2019 that we marked 10 years of NATO membership. So Croatia has not been alone for a long time. We are not in the sense of defense left entirely to ourselves. We are part of the most powerful defense alliance in the world, and we can set our own priorities accordingly. This is more important to bear in mind if due to an unreasonable decision to invest excessively in aviation, we ignore the other branches of the army, especially the navy, because of our focus on the Mediterranean and unfortunately more because of the security problems of different species that exist in the Mediterranean would be the wrong decision. Speaking of the Navy, the good news from 2019 is that the prototype of the coastal patrol ship was built in the Croatian shipyard successfully passed all the tests and is in full operational use. It's a little bit of hope for our shipbuilding. I hope that the experience and knowledge invested in the Omis ship will find buyers on the world market as well. A large part of this report is dedicated to our participation in various NATO programmes and missions. I think it can be said that in 10 years of membership we have made excellent integration into this defense alliance. Unfortunately, in 2019, it was the wound and the tragic death of our soldier in Afghanistan. What we are somehow more concerned about or where we see the possibility of further improvement is co-operation with other members of the European Union is regional co-operation. As far as the EU is concerned, I must say, and must admit and be correct, it is not only in Croatia or not in Croatia. The EU's common security defence policy remains underdeveloped, slightly chaotic and always in the back of NATO. Croatia, according to at least this report, is integrated into a good part of the programmes available. But given the incompleteness of this policy at Union level and our unfortunately tragic but unique experience of recent warfare on our own territory, perhaps it could be one of those niches where Croatia could seize a little more than its size and economic and political strength. I particularly think about the opportunities provided by the European Defence Fund as a potential source of major support for research and development of new technologies. Exactly what Croatia needs in general, so of course the defence industry. Speaking of money at the level of implementation of the increased defence budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2019 compared to 2018, there was an increase of nearly 415 million kuna. So this increase in one year was the sum of the parliament and government's budget for that year. So it is big money and Croatian citizens have the right to ask where these increases are going and if we are developing the defence system needed under the new circumstances that I started and started at the beginning of this presentation. One of the costs is related to the military office, but we discussed this when in the previous Parliament's meeting we launched a conclusion, or a request for a conclusion on the revision of the Vatican contracts, because the funds that are given are at the level of 300,000 people. Today, we all know, circumstances are very different. There's another note I'd like to make definitively. The number of women members of the defence system is growing even though the ratios are still significant on the side of men at all levels. But the modernity of an organization and its ability to cope with modern challenges is also realized by the clever use of all human knowledge and abilities. In this regard, I call on you to continue to work on making as many women as possible a career in the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7266	Next is the discussion of the SDP Representatives Club. Dear Representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7267	Thank you. So, when it comes to the Annual Defence Report for 2019, I will immediately tell us at the SDP Club we have a problem with it because the whole text of the document The annual defence report for 2019 is partly well-problemed due to persistent practice and the mention of activities, events and jobs without consistent reference to any of their details. The exact dates or number of participants or the duration of each activity or rotation are not frequently mentioned. In particular, the lack of pricing for certain activities is problematic, which further makes it difficult to distinguish large from small and expensive from cheap activities, as well as to move the cost of individual activities over time. When there are several references to the same content, they are generally described without covering the same data for all indications, including different criteria. Once only the price, the second time just quantity, various contexts of duration or measures so that they are almost systematically disabled by comparison. As a general rule, more detailed comparisons of specific more detailed items over the years are missing. Where such comparisons exist, they are generally tendant, set to notify only partially or to directly deceive trends, which is particularly visible in the defence funding section in 2019. In addition, a large number of contents have been presented with a target list of absolute figures, for example in terms of total staff, but without giving a share of these values in total effects. Especially in the eyes of the fact that the constitutional name of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is almost non-existent in this entire document except in the name of the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, although the Law on Defence in its Article 3rd paragraph 3 states that the name Croatian Armed Forces is also used as the alternative name complete and absolutely prevails in the annual report, regardless of its termological problem for us and substancely misleading the scope of the Croatian Navy and Croatian Air Force. As to the content of the annual report itself, its study involves a series of particularly problematic points that I specifically quote here. First of all, all kinds of human data are missing from human age on page 41. Except that the high age of the people has persisted as one of the biggest problems of the Republic of Croatia's defence system, this lack is now and particularly painful when seen lists a whole series of different measures that have raised certain age limits in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The data on current programmes, training or schooling shall not include data on the passivity or level of performance of certain types of training or education, but shall only list the masses of specific number of students or educational procedures carried out. Despite the alleged high growth of voluntary military training fees, there is no explanation of the great fall, the decline of the number of voluntary handbooks in 2018 and 2019, you can see this on page 48 of the report or a sharp increase of unplanned civilian and DVO separation from the defence system to page 52, if no measure to reverse these bad trends is indicated. In the entire annual report, there is no mention of the problems of the liner transport of the people for the MORH and the Armed Forces, while over the past years this practice has been described in any way by the mention of the traveling army as major negativity, the whole subject is simply skipped, not mentioned, described, and it is not explained how this problem has been resolved so thoroughly that there is no longer any need to mention it anymore. The defence funding part again covers data on the catastrophicly poor implementation of the defence budget in 2018. Thus, the data provided are only graphic depictions of the initial budget plans for certain years that are growing true, this is shown on page 85, but there is no graphic picture of the state of budgetary implementation of these plans without less than the data in the table indicating the figures for 2018 and 2019, showing that more of the main items in 2019 were done better than in 2018, although these 2 years in the graphic picture were shown in a similar way and then expected to be carried out in a similar way. The section on the financing of defences in graphics during the year stresses the non-existent uninterrupted detachment growth and is now using fully unrealistic, optimistic budget plans for 2021 and 2022 as it is also explicitly stressed that the curve does not include this year's corrections to the defence budget, which are nevertheless quite substantially mentioned in the text on the 84th page. With all this part of the defence funding this time, it fails to indicate the distribution of the defence budget according to NATO's NATO methodology required by the NATO Alliance, as it does not specify the amount of the additional quota of funds declared to NATO for military pensions. Although the document in several places mentions the return of the military to Vukovar as a transfer to the city's unit, the annual report does not indicate how much funds have been invested in that location unlike any other military listed in the same context that has been refurbished or upgraded. Although, for the second time since the first mention of 2018, the annual report also mentions a separate action by the ROLE-1 medical contingent in Afghanistan, on page 93, this activity receives only a brief sentence of text from the minimum details of this action. It is only one example of a catastrophicly poor coverage of the work of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in international missions around the world. Among the extraordinary events in the defence system during 2019, only incidents which unfortunately had fatal consequences for members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are mentioned. It is incomprehensible that there is no mention of a problematic event at the Zemunik Air Force Base, which in late 2019 caused the practical shift of officers by the Croatian Air Force's total administrator. In several places through the document is the passing of numerical allegations for the whited-out of the same principle category. I'll only mention three situations. The first question of the reserve filling, which contains 16,497 reserves, while the table lists them on page 49, 18,343. The second question of the purchase of assault rifles where the text mentions 1,000 pieces in 2019 on page 62 while the table in Appendix 5 mentions only 120 on page 146 and the third question is the number of sets of disguised uniforms in which 6,300 sets on page 67 are spoken of in the text for only 5,020 sets of hidden uniforms in order to be mentioned in the section on logistics and material means of class 2. According to us, this report does not show what should be shown, so the real situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in the end, because of these reports, and because of this situation where colleagues are asking about MiGs, about various things, and we know well that it wasn't, so I can say the unsolicited service of the MiGs in Ukraine so that we wouldn't have anything to fly with today, that needs a clear word, so no matter what it is about it, that's a fact. For all the above, we at the SDP Club will unfortunately not support this report, we will remain restrained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7268	The next debate is on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7269	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, state secretaries with associates. There are two committees in the Croatian Parliament that are pre-recognizable to whom the presidential position belongs, it is the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, precisely because of the importance of these topics which these Committees want to put on an over-party level. When we talk about this Report, and the secretary of state has made it clear and loud, it is important to stress that the Croatian Army carried out all the tasks that were put before it in 2019. Of course, every time he carries his challenges, he has his own security threats he faces, one of them today, and the other one was, say, 29 years ago. 29 years ago, at this very time, Croatia was attacked from all sides, there was a so-called war for military forces to reach the most needed weapon, and the first such victory occurred on September 22nd in Varazdin where the Varazdins captured the entire 32nd Corps of the so-called JNA, literally arming our homeland. The late president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, said of the victory "you have achieved success as has not yet been recorded in Croatia, the release of your work has opened the way for the release of our country". After the victory in Varazdin, Croatian Armed Forces and the whole of Croatia were very powerful, and that was precisely with weapons and weapons from the Varazdin Military Corps, which was 1991. Today security threats are different again, and among other things, we touched these security threats and challenges at the previous agenda point when we discussed the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security. The security threats and challenges of today are certainly this epidemic of coronaryvirus, migrant crisis, cyber attacks and threats, organised crime, terrorist threats, climate change and, of course, war conflicts around the world where our soldiers are part of the Peace missions. What is important and crucial, the Croatian Army has carried out all the tasks that have been set before it, and what makes me most happy and rejoices is helping civil institutions. There is no such elemental accident, let's remember those fires in Dalmatia three years ago, and floods with Karlovac, and snow blizzards in Lica two or three years ago, earthquakes in Zagreb this year where the Croatian military did not help the civilian population. Just the freshest example is the earthquake in Zagreb where only an hour or two after that unkind event, the Croatian Army was on the ground and then under the impression of an emotion Petar Vlahov said "I want to know who will ever after this day and after this morning in Croatia say that it is not necessary to invest in Croatia's military, civil protection and police". It is the most honest sentence, said literally under the emotions of an hour or two after the earthquake when literally Zagreb was still in the dust. Also, our soldiers participate annually in at least a dozen peacekeeping missions, which are under the auspices or leadership of the United Nations, NATO Alliance or the European Union, each and every detail of their obligations, are commended, and are sent to the Peace missions by all equipment, equipment, armed, all products of the Croatian defence industry, so that we can stress or say that our soldiers are the best promoters of the Croatian defence industry. The Ministry of Defence also took care literally of each person, the man at the centre of the system, raised the standard or material receipts of all employees, increased equipment and training, which is crucial and important for them to carry out their duties. What I am particularly pleased about is that there has been a new territorial schedule and that HV has been returned except to Varazdin, Sinj, Ploče, Pula, Udbine and Varazdin, and of course that it means a lot to everyone in those units in that area because there is no traveling army, you are not lost by soldiers and officers and officers for a few hours on a trip to your workplace, just as much back. And of course, the very quality of life for them and their families is where and where greater. What the colleagues in the opposition did not want to highlight or avoid, which is public procurement. A fully open, transparent and state audit report gave an unconditional opinion, and this is the most important because in each report we also talk about the spending of taxpayers' funds. I therefore stress that the Ministry of Defence and HV lead well, carry out their tasks, in peacetime their main and only priority is to help the population and the disabled, which they are also doing well and, of course, because of all of this, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7270	The next debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7271	Thank you. So, the report gives us some basic review of the activities of the armed forces and the MORH. But we have observed certain shortcomings in the analysis section, and we would like to be given in fact an explanation in the final address for these shortcomings, which we will also provide additional information. For example, the report does not state the potential risk of conflict in the Mediterranean between Turkey and Greece, and since our military ship took part in the SEA GUARDIAN operation and returned a few days ago from the mission, we believe that the situation at the maritime border of Greece and Turkey should be included in that analysis of potential risks. With regard to analysis, the second failure we have seen concerns situations in neighbouring countries where there is no data at all on Serbia. With more significant investment in the weapons of the neighbouring country, we believe that Serbia as well as other countries should have been the subject of analysis, and we are wondering whether this is because the former defence minister has experienced calls from Serbia because we believe that some kind of personal injury by the minister should not result in ignoring the analytical part of what is happening in the neighbouring country. The report also lists the number of youth increases that occur in military training. Since it is the training for which the compensation is received we think it would be important in the next report to show the socio-economic characteristics of persons who appear for military training because we would not want it to be about some social measure or last resort of young people who can't get a job anywhere else. Similar phenomena unfortunately exist in other countries. However, it is our view that entering an army or police force must not be the only opportunity for young people to work safely, nor the only motivation, but professionalization in that area and some personal motivation to participate in the military or similar case is with the police. In the last few years we have witnessed the continued growth of the MORH budget, but on the other hand, the MORH has a problem with budget implementation. Thus, in 2019, their budget was reduced from 5 billion to 4.81 billion, not spent, and in 2018 the plan was 4.8 billion and 4.8 billion, respectively, and 4.3 billion were implemented so that half a billion were less than planned. We can, in fact, conclude from the attached that there is no need for an increase in the MORH budget, but that it may be necessary to improve the system of budgetary planning within the Ministry of Defence. It seems to us that these increases are caused by the US demand that all NATO member states raise military budgets to 2% of GDP, which, of course, many other and much larger member states refuse. This is totally unacceptable to us, especially given that our R & D allocations are, for example, less than 1%. Not to mention the need to invest in the civil protection sector, especially in early warning systems in fire, flood defense, helicopter emergency services, etc. Likewise, when we talk about the budget, it is important to us to see how the funds of the MORH are spent. For example, we are interested in why Pleter d.o.o. In the case of the supply of food, therefore, it does not use the criteria of green public procurement in order to actually invest in the production of local OPGs through the consumption of the MRLs. For example, the cost planned for 2020. for the purchase of groceries is 51 million kuna, 51 million kuna investments in local OPGs and the purchase of food from them instead of the custom of large trade chains, most often it is Konzum and Tommy in the case of Platter, they could indeed consider it to be an investment rather than exclusively a cost. Also, what we're interested in, is there not, in the data report, whether the SOA Civil Surveillance Council supervised in 2019 military SOA, how many items were involved, and what were the results of the surveillance? So these are some data that the report should certainly contain, should be contained. Furthermore, the report says there was no secret public procurement. It's a bit of a strange claim, given that when military intelligence is secure, it has to have secret acquisitions, no, by law. It's not? [[Clip intrusion: Not true]] Then it's changed. [[No, it's not.]] That's what we'll do, we'll check it out. We watched, so it seems to us that there must always be secrets of public procurement, so we're interested in how it is, but okay, if, if you claim it isn't, we're glad it isn't, contribute transparency. What? What? [[Clip incursion: Audition]] A review, okay. [[Clip incursion: Audition]] Thank you. The State Public Procurement Control Commission also received some three complaints. You're saying that one was rejected, two accepted, and we'd like you to tell us more about what it was specifically about. In 2019, as well as in the budget, as set out in the paragraph of the judgment and in the implementation, as many as 92 million kunas have been reserved. We are actually interested in how specific the proceedings are, how many proceedings have been lost, what are the damages and whether someone has been responsible for these lawsuits in terms of regressive responsibility or work responsibilities. And what would eventually also beg you as information, to confirm or disprove. So we have received information that the share of employees of military personnel in the MORH is growing compared to civilians. We are interested in 1st whether this is true and somewhere we stand by the view that the Morh primarily has to hire civilians and secondaryly active military personnel employed in the Armed Forces, so we are particularly interested in giving us the number of civilians inside the MORH, and how many active military personnel are employed. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7272	Thank you. Next individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7273	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would only say about this report that the capabilities of the Croatian National Security Army are something important because in the system of national security and homeland security that this Parliament has brought they are the most important Croatian army is the most important component and the role of the Croatian soldier and the trust of the Croatian people towards the Croatian soldier was enormous and will remain large. Croatia's largest trust is with the Croatian military. And this is evident from recent earthquake threats, at the beginning of the pandemic itself about setting up objects for the coronary virus around the hospitals and everything needed in both the fires and all the elemental disasters. But of course we still have a lot to work on. In person, in 2017 to return, the Croatian Army was returned to Sinj which was quite significant I must admit, something of the most significant because it was embarrassing and unfortunate that all military declared unspective as regards the Croatian Land Army from Knin to Konavla, to Prevlaka and where it was the most border and where it was necessary to consider it good. But now that the military is arranged, I think the military tower would not only be there for engineers to have room to be even more military because engineering is important. I would like there to be greater co-operation in these areas and engineering with local self-government where we could jointly contribute to the respected secretary for a better life, for roads for balancing the macadamic roads through the fields, and then this with the local community could be done much more. And, of course, if there were any natural snowfalls, the fire of course that the Croatian soldier was always the first. The most important thing is to speak when we talk about the Ministry of Defence that the Ministry of Defence is one of the most important, defense is one of the most important segments of society, as well as Croatian. I mentioned what is pressuring me, in my first speech I was a little emotional because today's statement from our colleague, Peović, everyone has a democratic right of expression but its way and appearance to defuse the role in the Homeland War as the first commander of the Armed Forces of the Croatian Army and the First President of the Republic in terms of the management of the Croatian Army i.e. The orders in all the liberating defense operations are more than embarrassing. So I don't know what role their candidates will play, for example. in Zagreb for a mayoral candidate with the view that the Croatian Army was a criminal organisation, a joint criminal enterprise which is absolutely a member of the Croatian Army in most operations both in the MUP, 126. ... brigades have conducted all operations and in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been carried out in accordance with all conventions with course and out of war, situations that are unpredictable and in a war that no one would wish for. However, to humiliate Croatian soldiers I think we must stop it and have that consensus. Here's Racan's government so in this home, there's been a Declaration of Homeland War and it's all clearly described there. After that, a number of poachers appeared even here I mentioned just before Stipe Mesic. They destroyed the national security system... chasing Croatian generals like it wasn't a war. So, they were treating the institution of the commanders of the most important operations and the documentation and distortion of history in cooperation with The Hague where they even toasted Carla Del Ponte to the arrest of Ante Gotovina or to send to the dwarves of documents without any supervision. If this Ministry of Defence has its abilities, the Croatian Army should preserve all its visions and all its abilities, it should be built on the fact that our people feel safe and for the economic development that the Croatian Army can use and that is very important, and that is the most important cooperation of Croatian soldiers and peoples, but the Croatian soldier is part of the people. He can't be made by anyone from the people or by a statement by Katarina Peovic, who said a shameful statement that he is Croatia, that he is Dr. Tudjman led a criminal enterprise with the Croatian Army. ...time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7274	There's a replica. Dear Representative Miletic Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7275	Col. Bulj, here are just a few sentences, let us not forget about the sacrifice of Rijeka, the town from which I come, 206 Rijeka gave its lives in the Homeland War, and many volunteers have defended the first lines and Gospić and the southern wars and everything you know well, and I would definitely not now be dealing with radicals belonging to some radical minority groups on the left political scene, as I would not be dealing with radicals from a right political scene, but I would just like to remind here that the victim of Croatian defenders must always be highlighted and we must not forget specifically here the contribution of the Rijekan in the Homeland War. The last leader and cheerleading group from the river Dean Christmas was the other day I wrongly said so he corrected me in the first term at 18 years of age as a volunteer, said Marine not in the second but in the first half, and so was Zoran Miletic, my surname who was a long-time leader of Armada after '94, '91. as a volunteer of HOS And let's not forget that. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7276	You as a younger man who could not participate in the wartime are telling the truth and I am sorry what any of the MPs have brought about the question of the Homeland War, especially here you mention your Rivers which gave great pain to the number of inhabitants, regardless of what was not directly threatened as the first line, the great pain in the Homeland War. We offer our condolences to all the dead, but we must not forget them or allow them to be humiliated. I'm sorry about what's going on with you and your little girl Rivera girl who forgets about those people who gave their lives and I repeat, who didn't ask who the Ustasha was, who the partisan was to whom. There's a lawyer here, a colleague, so let's say we're in the trench of anyone asking who was the Ustasha, who was the Partizan. And I am sorry that this is happening from your fellow citizen but certainly reduces the value of her political group in Croatian society with such a relationship with people who have fought for free Croatia, which is why she and her group side are here in the assembly today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7277	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7278	Dear Representative, little, you mentioned colleague Peovic, what she said is something terrifying, on the sacrifice of the Croatian people, the Croatian man with the first Croatian president as the father of the country. Do you think that this is indeed the whole activist organization today, the parliamentary representative We can, green, is this the attitude of all of them, the way of evaluating the Homeland War and the value and sacrifice of the Croatian people that originated today in this Croatian home? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7279	So I would really like her political group to express its position that Croatian citizens voted in favour of the political group, to give their stance to support the statement by our colleague Katarina Peovic that the Homeland War was a criminal enterprise led by Dr. Franjo Tudjman. Let him plead before this people, and let them seek trust in this way. I repeat the Homeland War, what I said, and we all know mostly that we lived and participated directly in the Homeland War, the most sacred thing, it's a liberating and just home war and I think I expect to react to this political organization i.e. A platform we can say about this because surely people need to know who they're voting for and how they behave in parliament. It is the minimum that is expected of this group because the declaration of the Homeland War and the dead bones from Vukovar in which you fought to Dubrovnik is more than embarrassing, while you receive a salary here in the Croatian Parliament for which these Croatian defenders fought.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7280	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7281	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. State Secretary, Secretary General of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues as well as here all day we have been discussing defence issues at first university now and the Annual Defence Report 2019 as de facto this report does not apply. Much of us were members of the Defence Committee both in the past and in this meeting, and I think we must first of all stress, commend normally and in this comprehensive report, but stress the excellent cooperation of the Ministry of Defence with the Defence Committee itself, but also with all the parliamentary representatives who were interested in the acquisitions and all the reports, but also with all the laws that came here on schedule at the Croatian Parliament. Since this individual debate is quite short, I've singled out some parts that should definitely be highlighted and here are some of the MPs who've been based on it. I think it's in this past session, i.e. in the past term of the Ministry of Defence but here in 2019 everything that followed before it, but I think what will follow through these several years of this ministry is definitely returned and symbol and dignity and circled the brand of Croatian soldiers and Croatian military. This is what we feel and in the streets of Croatian cities it is what we feel and with citizens simply the Croatian Army and the Croatian soldier has returned to the people and this people accepts and I think it is one great credit to the Ministry of Defence and precisely all these activities that have been mentioned by colleagues before me. A lot of big things happened in the area of defense in 2019, but what followed. which was preceded in 2019, and the crown itself was realized in 2019, we must stress definitely with all the symbols, dignity and international position of the Croatian military and Croatian soldiers, all the peace forces that we have discussed here and here, I have to point out exactly the Sea Guardian peace mission, I will highlight it only for the sake of the patrol ship because I didn't arrive at the replica at the beginning of the note, ask the Secretary of State, but here I would like to respond in my final address, we know that here, here is now the process of making and the state budget, and the budget of certain ministries, after the acquisition of the battleplanes just for the sake of the Mediterranean, and the Mediterranean, but also for our Adriatic Sea itself, I think that the basic ships and the simple strengthening of the Croatian Navy had to be very high priority, so that I believe that if there were also reductions in the budgetary rules, for the patrols and for the development of the navy and the cities, and the funds. It is commendable that here for the fifth year as far as the equipment of Croatian soldiers is concerned, it is absolutely evident that everything is a Croatian product from arms to equipment. We mentioned little about the military industry and this 300-million-dollar contract that the secretary of state mentioned and how much this strengthened the military industry itself, but generally industrial production in the Republic of Croatia, we do not need to take notice of transparent procurement without secret contracts, which I mean great pride of this, but the former calls on the Ministry of Defence, and what many colleagues have pointed out before me, the army has returned to the people and the schedule and the restoration of the military to be closer to the centres, to be closer to the borders, to be closer to all activities in which the Croatian military and Croatian soldiers will be needed, but it has also been returned to our cities to be at the service, and to be in their missions when they are invited, when and what they have proven, when they have been major elemental disasters, and we have all witnessed the last year, and the fire, and that we do not mention all the earthquakes for the Croatian soldiers, and for the Croatian soldiers. As the crown of everything, I think it's just the University, what we call a military university, so here and at this point they thank you and congratulate you on the previous law that we had here, I think it's the crown of exactly the Ministry of Defense in this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7282	Time. There is one replica, the esteemed representative Josip Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7283	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. I agree with your claim that it is in the past term, and here I would say now, the continued policy of restoring dignity to the Croatian soldier, which is extremely important. The material status of Croatian soldiers was humiliated at one level which was not worthy of performing such responsible, serious and dangerous tasks or work done by Croatian soldiers both in their homeland and in various missions where they were, and therefore I believe that it is very important that this is precisely the fact that material status and thus the reputation and pride of Croatian soldiers are restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7284	Is that okay? Thanks, buddy. It is too short of time, I have not yet arrived and mentioned precisely the material rights that have been returned to the Croatian soldier who has long been humiliated and debased, not only through the wages but all the supplements that have been abolished, and the paying of holidays, guards and everything else that has been returned in the term of the last ministry and we must definitely mention, precisely because of these returned material rights I think we have now satisfied soldiers in Croatian military, not to mention that we have spent all four years of the term of office of the last Council of the Ministry on what is the main component and the main tool, tool, but what is best we have in the Croatian Army, so there have been years of sport, and years of training and preparedness of soldiers, I think that, again, today we have a very satisfied soldier in Croatian soldiers who are ready for all tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7285	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Katarina Peovic. She's gone, she's losing her right. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7286	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In connection with this Law or the Annual Defence Report for 2019, I would first comment on just one, one piece of information that seems to me to be crucial, and then I would say something about our debate on this and the other laws. Here is the projection that the defence allocations should be about 2% of GDP, the current situation that is 1.74% of GDP, and that the projection is that this entire defence system as well as other systems should be investments in modernising and purchasing equipment 20%. The situation is, and the data that we received on the Committee is now investing about 8%, in other words, there is one large space that should fill in or allow us to have one, one continuous renewal and development of the entire system. However, I wanted to say something else, given that there are no other opportunities, when we go to watch this debate here, it is simply dysfunctional, to be polite, to ask from, a series of these predecessors have asked a series of questions that expect answers, these answers, that kind of debate should be conducted on working bodies so that the motioner or the Ministry of Defence and the authors of this Report can be prepared and provided these answers, if they can't on the same day, the debate should have lasted a few days until all these answers are found, that is, until these answers are reached. So in the absence of those answers, what do we have? We have fragmental truths, fragmentary beliefs and then projections of that... Of us, he imagines what it's supposed to be like, it's just not serious. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What am I saying? That the functioning of our Parliament's organizations is anacron. Let me just remind you of the data, and the data are for the last 10 years for the Member States of the European Union. Average plenary sessions per year in countries, in these countries is 90 plenary sessions per year. Our average is 118 plenary sessions a year. The weight is there working on committees. With our hands on our hearts, committees are a reform. They are held during plenary sessions. On the other hand, we have 14 clubs in our Parliament. It is the most that in any other country no other country has as many clubs in its parliaments as we have. It is therefore high time to change the Rules of Procedure, to put the focus of work on committees and to have plenary sessions primarily in order for clubs to be declared on the assessments of the proposed laws or other acts of the Croatian Parliament. In this case, we will avoid this paradox that, on the one hand, in a specific case when it comes to the Croatian military, we have an attitude other than individuals, attitudes and the public and the majority here in the Parliament that the Croatian Army has one of the greatest respects and values in Croatian society, and the Croatian Parliament has a score that it has been drawing for two or two years. I think it is because of myself and because of the integrity of this institution that is crucial, which must make key decisions, but it needs to be seen in one way that everything that has been prepared is based on exhaustive discussions, exchange of facts, arguments, and not open-mindedly asking a series of questions that have de facto been left unanswered and I doubt that even if the applicant knows them today, he can answer them all in 20 minutes. So both this debate and other debates that are being held in a similar way, I am reviewing representatives who can cover all the areas, and I am holding on to the fact that I know something about two possible three areas, so I am taking part in this, and the rest I think that the public should be spared from my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7287	You have two replicas. Please remain professor. The first replica of the distinguished representative Matko Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7288	Thank you, Vice President. I must say, I fully support what you said, and I think it should really be the way to ask that the more work is done on the boards. But given that we have no answers to certain questions, we have no other option but these questions may be repeated here. And that maybe the Rules of Procedure should change, that maybe some things should be modernised, that maybe we should really be set up as some other developed countries, that's what I definitely support, and we definitely need to be on that trail and stick to what area anyone can talk about and where they can give some of the best suggestions. But unfortunately, that's why we at the SDP Club are restrained by this report today because we simply don't have answers to certain questions, and by tomorrow we certainly won't have those answers, so our conclusion will ultimately be that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7289	Thank you for this support. And what I would like to say to this, look when 11 countries of these 27 have between 40 and 70 days of plenary sessions a year and it is a form if you want from Slovenia to Hungary, Hungary has only two days a month, but Germany or the European Parliament is one week from Monday to Friday a plenary session. He's been arguing on boards for a week. So everyone can come to the board not only members of the board, but other MPs, ask a question and wait until that answer is received. The third week is a clubwork and the fourth week is reserved if there is something to expand or that MPs can go to the base what I say, because otherwise people say you only come when there are elections and otherwise you're gone. Thus, it is necessary to set up the organisational arrangements for all of this to be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7290	Thank you. The next individual debate is distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7291	Everything's fine. Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's something I want to say about this Defense Report in 2019. I think we've really talked a lot about the Croatian Army today. But she certainly deserves it, because she is the only guarantee of the real security and stability of the Republic of Croatia and of all its citizens. And to be so grateful for today's words, we owe the Croatian army to all Croatian defenders, especially those who gave their lives for our country. They created the Croatian army from the foundation and with the help of the people and today it is truly our pride. During the war and after the war, it was renewed, modernised, it became part and a full member of NATO's most powerful military alliance, and surely what we've been saying all morning is that we're developing it right at the values of the Homeland War. What I want to say is what is important, that the right turning point followed exactly in 2017 when the Croatian Army again proved that it is a significant factor in our society. I must also mention the role of former General Damir Krstic, who unfortunately resigned this year at 5 months after the case in which a military plane crashed and lost two lives. I think that he really gave himself in the whole story and that we had 4 years of one hard work to make the Croatian Army what it is today, and this shows and proves both the figures and everything that it says in this report on almost 150 pages that only included in 2109. Indeed, when we look at what we had and where we are today, only the budget of 4 billion and 767 million kuna, which is almost 10% higher than the year before, clearly shows that the Croatian Army, i.e. Croatian soldiers have become one of the important components, i.e. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and the new minister will be the priority of this government last time. I think it is clearly shown through the spending table of all the resources that were priorities, they are also listed and clearly described throughout this report, but it is evident that nearly 210 million kunas have been allocated for equipment, modernisation and construction over 2018, that people have become an important factor in investing in both their material and all other rights and that almost 2 billion and 725 million kunas have been spent there or almost 140 million more than a year ago. That training and logistics support of the Armed Forces are also an important segment where almost 70 million more are spent, international co-operation, and that it has reduced on peacekeeping missions by some 30 million kunas from the budget. What's more important is to say that last year, 2019. HV returned to Pula, which was very nice and came from the 8th constituency, that the army had returned to that space, and before that we should not forget Varazdin, Sinj, Vukovar and Ploče, of course it had reactivated and the military in Udbina. That everything has its own meaning and true sequence and that, I say, I'm happy that we finally have the right attitude towards the military, but its, every year's progress that shows that it is becoming a modern army that we can rely on at any time, and there were those in this year, we remember only the time of the pandemic, the help in the health system, the timing of the earthquake, the help in that part and those few days when it was most important, and we remember those years before, meaning both the fires and the floods, simply without the HV as a component of Homeland Security today is simply difficult to imagine any activity within the country itself and I think that it is really close to the people, close to the people and what we have heard today, that the Croatian people have the most trust exactly in HV is something that is an honor to all of us, and of course to all Croatian soldiers. So here, I support this report and we just keep going the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7292	There's a replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7293	Thank you very much. counterpart Boric, a Croatian soldier has certain abilities, however, politics itself needs to define them. Here, I ask you, and I ask that all the time because people don't feel safe, and HV is security stability, mainly in border areas. What's your position, and you passed the law like I did that HV could go to the border. Your position on the issue of HV helping police keep borders from illegal migrants because simply migrants enter whatever they want, like through a hollow cheese, mainly in the area of the Dalmatian Mountain, like, and more and more migrants, it's one of the major threats. The second question is HOS, Croatia's coastal standing. Of the 5 ships promised, we are only one that should have been finished five years ago, we have, secondly, how you look at it, which is why the Croatian Government does not want to declare the full application of the exclusive economic belt on the Adriatic, to protect our territory, in this case, our sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7294	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I am neither Prime Minister nor Minister to answer such a question. We're not even on probation, but I'll try to say what I think I know. I'm sure I do, and that's that as far as the border is concerned, we're guarding her with the 6.5 thousand cops who are trained to do that. And while it's an assessment of all the services in the Republic that they can do it, they'll do it as police. And you heard recently, in the current hour, when the question and the answer of the prime minister who said that if necessary, really, if it is something that goes beyond the limits of the possibility of those 6.5 thousand police officers, then it will be considered whether HV, i.e. If the HV needs to go to the border. You heard that clearly, I have no reason to repeat it. And as for the economic belt, I think those stories between you and me have clearly been separated for a long time. We represent our tendency to have everything that offers us an economic belt a little different, and you represent that story because simply, different from that, you can't. So, in that segment when you had the chance, you immediately gave up as a bridge, just you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7295	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7296	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague, Boric, was injured by an article. In 238, where he put me as a teacher, he's a teacher, and I'm a professional soldier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7297	Okay, that wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Mako Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7298	Thank you, Vice President. State Secretary. One of the reasons why we will be restrained in the vote of this Report is on page 60, which is combat infantry vehicle Bradley M2-A2-ODS which we have already talked about, so I would ask you, on the very trail of what Professor Tudjman was saying, is that you deliver the detailed technical specification of the state of the vehicle, equipment and weapons to the Defence Committee. We are also interested in accurate information on the quantity of the vehicle, whether these 60 vehicles + 24 are for parts, or are bound by Black Hawks to get 2 goals of helihoptera, and then we still have to buy 2 and then pay 2.5 times the price of the same combat helicopter paid by the U.S. military, which is also, under the ERIP programme, an American aid program, with which we should buy another 60 vehicles and the accompanying parts in this case. I'm also wondering, can you deliver this to the board, is there a technical specification of the remont of the change and the equipment to which the equipment level is meant to be invested in those vehicles? I also want to know which equipment is intended to be installed at both prices and from which suppliers? Also, which companies should purchase parts for Bradley because these companies have already contacted the United States. And what I'm most interested in is why we're taking out-of-date vehicles that the U.S. government rejects and considers them obsolete for more than 20 years, and they're making current changes to M2A3 and M2A4 versions. Otherwise, this vehicle, except for the U.S., that's being taken out of use by Saudi Arabia and Lebanon alone, but for more than 10 years, it hasn't been seen anywhere on the battlefields at all. You know we've got MRAP vehicles, and their windows have replacement problems, so I'm wondering if that's gonna be the situation with Bradleys. But when I told Bradley their status in the U.S. Army was next. Since 1990, they have wanted to replace it with new ones and are implementing modifications to 4 programmes. Modernization of the A4 version is planned, and A5 Super Bradley, who was supposed to have a 30 mm top and carry a complete compartment, not part of it so far, has been cancelled due to the decision to introduce a new vehicle. In fact, the U.S. Army is considering a new generation of infantry combat vehicles as a replacement for Bradley, which are CV90MK4 of this same manufacturer BAE Systems IFV links and KMV Puma. Why is this supply harmful to us, or extremely harmful? Since it is as such because of the ERIC programme that we are entering and which is $119 million difficult to exclude us from the PESCO programme that also has the purchase of LEM systems in its part, and this is a European programme that has EUR 13 billion, EUR 13 billion is difficult to withdraw, these are EU grants and are also used for the development of defence capabilities, and can also be obtained for the launch of production but also for the purchase of these combat vehicles. What is also important is how the ERIC works, the State Department's list of one donated recipient is obliged to buy another and invest in the corresponding equipment that the United States only partially finance. So Croatia should get 84 pieces of it 60 plus as gratis plus 24 correct but we should buy another 60, because according to publicly available information from the US government and equipment companies, which are planning the equipment of the Croatian Bradleys, the number of 144 pieces is mentioned. So 60 donations plus 24 plus 60 bought by ERICA rules. Also all US products are subject to ITAR regulation cannot be sold without the US government's consent that was with the case F16 Barak. So we'd have something more that we can't sell, which means that these vehicles and systems on them are practically our property if we want to sell it. As far as technical and tactical sides of the chess are from 19 to 35 years old, they are modified and exposed to long-term intensive use. Due to multiple modification of the mass of the vehicle is increased from the original 25 to 33 tonnes, which increases the load on the oatmeal, transmission and the shamsis itself, causes permanent deformations and increased cost of the component. In addition, due to a change in the ratio of strength and mass, there has been a decrease in mobility and passivity due to increased pressure on the gas surface of the caterpillars, deformations on a given shasia have been observed, aluminium, which is a uniform and basic armor, problems in use on a soft and very rocky terrain and reduced mobility. He can't carry a full combat unit, no more than 7 soldiers without additional equipment and ammunition and anti-arming equipment, and if that's their basic equipment, if that's their basic tank equipment on the outside of the vehicle, and that's a big problem with the Americans because Their mechanized platoon organizes by system 3 times 9. Excuse me. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you. I'll get it. I'll sign up for final. [[/Intruder: 14 seconds.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7299	You got it. The next debate is distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7300	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues and I, in my presentation, will, however, give a special commendation to this work report, not as a document, but as a commendation to all those who, in the work of all those covered by this report. We, of course, do not question whether we are all proud of our army especially because it has grown on the foundations of both the Homeland War and as our defenders and defenders and patriots and sacrificial and courageous in the war, so on these foundations continue to be built our Croatian army. We have already heard that it has support for citizens as a confidence in one pillar of stability and security, and the Croatian Army has also made its contribution to international security and we are proud of the reputation of Croatia that they extend in peacekeeping missions. Today, on the Committee on Gender Equality with Secretary of State Jacob, he was the director of the Human Resources Administration, I don't know how I said it, and I said it well, and it's exactly what they said, and it's not covered by the report, because it would really be a huge and huge document, but I was impressed by the concern and concern in human resources. It is certainly evident from the report that, through both persons and employees in the MRLs, care is taken of his health, that Chinese therapy and sports activities are taken into account, also briefly on physical health and mental health and preparedness. Very common are contacts with psychological services through treatment, through groups or individually and through society. The law on the amendments to the Law on Armed Forces services has changed precisely in the direction of improving the conditions of the persons involved through the use and resolution of housing issues, and what I would particularly point out is that it encouraged the use of parental leave and that this time of stay on parental leave should be accounted for in that internship necessary for the advancement or conditions of education. A number of educations are focused, and under the impression of the day before yesterday, the education of the fight against violence against women and the family is also in the curriculum and programme in the education of officers and officers at the Croatian Military University. They are also open to co-operation and education on these and similar issues and with the Ombudsman's Office for Gender Equality as well as with the relevant ministries. When we talk about whether more soldiers or women in the MRLs are needed, there is certainly a certain shift compared to the active military personnel of women compared to the year 2011 when they were 9.7%, 2019. 12.8% therefore there is a certain increase as well as state officials who have significantly more than '11. 44.6%, 2019. 49.2%. The way he takes care of human resources, I think, and how the attention and gender equality is being laid down, but also many other activities that I have listed here will certainly be the incentive to have as many women as possible who will be involved in the composition and be active military persons and, of course, state officials and tenants, this trend is not questioned. In any case, it will still be in these discussions on this subject, but I am impressed by this, and I really congratulate you on this part of the attention that is being paid in our armed forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7301	One replica, the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7302	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Murganic. It's a good thing you've dedicated your discussion to people. We are through this report and by discussing this report discussing machines, discussing airplanes, discussing ships and everything, and we are discussing people who do this relatively little. It's all good, but if you don't have people, if these people don't get educated, it's all for nothing. So I am also a replica when it was on the opening display somehow it seems to me that it is extremely important, the percentage of women as active military persons or that there are much more in the administration, but what would really be good to find in this report in the future is this part of education, investing in knowledge, investing in education, investing in people, actually investing in people, because that is what makes a report something better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7303	Thank you for this replica. Of course, that impressed me, too. I must honestly admit that when I went through the report, I am not as a fellow representative who spoke before me, inclined or not to know, I probably have no interest in discussing in this way really professionally about weapons and equipment that is very important, but I will certainly say that we have a really great concern for human resources and today we have told the representatives of the MORH that in the future, regardless of the scope of the report, pay attention to this. Our citizens need to know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7304	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7305	As I prepare for this debate, I found some interesting articles, so here's to share them with you. One says, “Imagine with an army of 22,000 soldiers who are able for a maximum of four hours before the enemy comes out with 650,000, and within two days with an army of a million and 700 thousand people who are highly trained and organized and well-armed. ” Now I skip one piece and again, "The military deadline is mandatory and when they pass 90 days of training, the state gives them a weapon with two frames of ammunition, three uniforms for different seasons, a protective vest and a helmet." By the age of 32, they have eight weeks of exercise over the next ten years, up to 42 times two weeks to 52 once two weeks. I'm talking about Switzerland. So as soon as a Swissman gets his 22nd year of life, he gets fired from the army and returns his rifle. Then, “the German army will soon receive foreigners into its ranks. ” So "Sweden introduces a mandatory military deadline, Finland buys 64 new battleplanes in the game are five different models". And now that we look at these countries that are all economically one of the world's most developed, technically and technologically advanced with high democratic standards, socially sensitive to the importance of defense and security. Of course, I feel that we too must address the issue and defend security with extreme attention, and therefore I am glad that we are in the process of obtaining fighter aircraft. For the next month, two, it will be of course top theme, but as an independent, sovereign, internationally recognised state, we are obliged to protect our airspace, and we can do it in two ways, either by our military, our military aviation, or by example to the Slovenians to pay one of the neighbours. Anyone who thinks we don't need the Air Force to just answer the question of who's trying to keep the most air space? I say we do it with our air force and our army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7306	We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7307	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Strick, there you have read several investment countries in the environment in the defence system and compared it to us and that the HV is still missing equipment. You come from the Varazdin County, you're familiar with local and regional self-government, for all those who say we don't need to invest, for all those who say that fighter planes are too expensive, let's compare just how much the military saved by going out on the ground during the big floods, the fires, not to mention earthquakes, everything that JLSs couldn't do if they didn't have enough human resources, or enough equipment, as much as just that HV saved the RH, but also certain JLSs that in this way it's definitely nothing expensive if we invest in the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7308	That's exactly how a colleague of Bacic's. When the war is, of course, the primary task of each army is to defend. But in peacetime, we use the army for everything we need. Well, you have a case three years ago. Great fires in Dalmatia immediately entered the field two years ago. in the carlovec floods, they went out on the field. This year, on behalf of the club I was discussing, an earthquake in Zagreb, within the hour two were out in the field and the dust still did not settle. They also have a number of initiatives and cooperation with kindergartens, schools, municipalities and cities where they helped to edit. Among other things, I think a year ago two of them helped to arrange Marian. Therefore, it is of great benefit during the peace period.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7309	Thank you. Next debate, the distinguished representative of Ante Pracachin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am for this debate seems to have been announced by my dear colleague Stjepo Bartula. I was supposed to speak on behalf of the club for the 10 minutes or double amount, but due to the assessment of my club that my views are too hard, a little too radical, we concluded that it was best that I don't speak for the club, and I as a tight soldier I accepted, you soldiers know, I as a tight soldier I accepted that decision, but I kept myself the right to speak for myself. So, what would a major dispute be between me and my friends? My colleagues from Homeland, colleagues from the Homeland Movement, simply find me too sharp towards NATO and mild towards the Russians. Well, I can agree with them in part, but actually in addition to what I was planning to say and my claims, I have to repeat here that in the last 10 years NATO has had several clumsy, more realistically it would be a matter of thoughtless moves that have baffled conflicts, they have not caused them, but they certainly have caused conflicts in Libya, Syria, about Iraq not to speak. In the report, I am particularly distracted by the phrase "strengthening presence." I don't think everyone from the club has read these 150 pages of text, but what does a front, what does strengthening that forward presence mean? It's actually receiving the borders of Russia. Behind that phrase is a rather dangerous intention to enter the Russian zone of special interest, people said in the Russian courtyard. I don't like it for any more reason. Especially from Croatian historical experience, from my grandfather's experience from 105 years ago, because of my uncle's experience before 78 years ago, then for some German wishes, the unfortunate Croats went to Russia. That first team that went to World War I, it came back well, but the one that went to Stalin City in World War II, no one came back alive, so do I have the right to close my eyes over the fact that there's a danger that tomorrow my heirs are going the same way? So, this peaceful policy towards the Russians, you did what you did on the trail of both politics and the political thinking of the current American President Trump because the riots around the world started by the administrations before him, if God gives happiness to him to win the election, I think this world will go better because yet this force still dominates. Why am I talking about this? This is what I'm talking about because the report, I think my colleague Bartulica mentioned, is mainly dedicated to international defence cooperation, and much less to defending the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. So, while I'm at it, I look back a little bit on my own report. I find it a very interesting start where, as one of the serious problems, it mentions the destructive action of not state actors and the instability caused by the weak and failed and the state. I repeat once again, the destructive action of non-state actors and the instability caused by the weak and failed and the state. In such a serious report at such a serious time, why is this claim not illustrated and supported by something? We in the Homeland Movement have concluded very simply and quickly that this example of the Serbian Orthodox Church is making a mess and causing a political crisis wherever it appears, and it is not a state element. We further wonder if the example of another weak, weak, failing country is neighbouring BiH? Finally, this policy must tell the people what it intends to do in the event of an armed incident or war in BiH, we need to know what is a priority for Croatian politics. Are these Croats in BiH, is that the BiH state? Is there any hope of being both Croats and BiH together? A good part of Croatia's policy would prefer neither, the answers are not our business. This can only be said by uninformed or broken ignorers or political reptiles who despise Croatia, and BiH neither likes nor understands, such as a Bilmes who is known by the title of doctor of science, a university professor named Dejan Jovic. I'm watching him on HRT the other day authoritative nonsense about BiH, prescribes the recipe for Croatian politics as to how BiH is treated, and has no idea of the current historical complexity of the Bosnian and Bosnian Herzegovina problems. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Excuse me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7311	Next debate, distinguished representative Josip Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7312	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to commend this report and, of course, to give support in terms of everything that was presented in the report and what was done in terms of the defence or work of the MRL in 2019. The Croatian Army is developing as a proud victory army based on the Homeland War. There are few armies or armies in Europe who have the privilege of taking on those best Croatian sons, defenders, first of all those who have passed their lives in the Homeland War, that in this celebration and in these triumphant actions that took place during the Homeland War today, a young Croatian army, I would say studying its work. MORH is doing a very good job for me in terms of preserving the memory of all our or many of our knights from the Homeland War in a way that, as we have here, an example that the centre for the development of leaders is named or named after the knight Mark Babić, commander of Trpinje Road, one of our greatest heroes of the Homeland War, but all other, of course, mild Zadre and all of those Croatian defenders who have done great deeds during the Homeland War and are called by them both this educational center and various units and all that is done in this sense, and it is indeed commendable. The Croatian Army plays an important role in terms of co-existence with local self-government units where it helps develop, it is always in hand when it comes to fires, floods, the recent earthquake here in Zagreb where the Croatian army is indeed always among the first. What I also want to emphasise is important, the process of returning the Croatian army from Vukovar, Sinj, Varazdin, Pula, Udbina, Ploča is not only in this sense of emotional importance for all people, especially for the Croatian army, it has a serious and financial role and I would also say a demographic role in this sense of returning to those environments. I would like to commend here the former Minister Krstic and current Banozic, who continued to lead good politics in this regard. Finally, I would like to refer a little bit to our colleague Katarina Peovic's statement this morning, which, unfortunately, is not here right now, a statement in the sense that President Franjo Tudjman's policy was criminal or that President Franjo Tudjman was at the head of the crime movement. This statement deeply offends the feelings of me as a Croatian defender, all of these Croatian defenders, all the families of Croatian defenders who lost their loved ones in the Homeland War and all those who wanted free Croatia. And I'll remind you here and a colleague who isn't present here and all of us is an important fact. Of all that we are all proud of that which we wanted Croatia and wanted and dreamed of the Croatian state, proud of all those winning actions, I will remind you of one important fact, and this is a referendum on the independence of the Republic of Croatia which took place on 19 May 1991, where 83.56% of the citizens, 94.17% were for the independent Croatian state. So my question is to the distinguished colleague Katarina Peovic and everyone who thinks so, is 94.17% of Croatians and Croatian citizens in '91. The year was wrong? Are all the victorious and glorious actions that took place in the Homeland War our pride or something else? Here is to think for all of us, for me as a Croatian defender and for us Croatian defenders there is no dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7313	One replica esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7314	Thank you, Vice President HS. Hey, buddy, here's your offer on the line. Comrade Saric, you've made a good point, we didn't mention this before. We must definitely commend the Ministry of Defence in the past meeting and former Minister Krstičević, who has introduced changes in the name and the schools and halls and tomorrow, according to the heroes of the Homeland War, precisely these symbols and historical truths because, overall, when we look at both HV and the general military... This symbolism and flag and marking, but also the oblivion of individuals who have done much for the people and for the army are extremely important, so it's very good that you remembered it precisely for these symbols and for the renaming of the shrubs of those halls called blue, green, one, two, are now named after the heroes of the Homeland War. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7315	Thank you, colleague Bacic. 1991. We were proud to wear a mask. I was one of those members of the Tiger special police force back then, and that's the best time, the days of pride and glory that we lived at that time. And of course when we talk about it as Croatian defenders, we can't talk about it with deep emotions. What pleases me is that both the former minister and the current minister have just insisted on restoring the reputation and status and pride of the Croatian soldier, and also in that material sense which is extremely important that the Croatian soldier, I would say, is well paid, but at the same time that he is proud of the job he performs as all Croatian defenders were proud in 1991. War years, that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7316	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7317	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues, honourable MPs and MPs, I welcome all of you. Surely, first of all, I would like to give full support to this report on the ability of the HV. In all its segments and in the work of the Ministry of Defence and former Minister Krsticevic and Minister Banozic, the focus is on man. This is what I, as a Croatian defender, is what the Homeland War has given, and this is the Croatian state, today we have the capabilities of a Croatian soldier who is going through all segments and this university gives that roof organization, which is that today we have serious leaders coming out of our centers. It's something we must commend, which we must appreciate. The Homeland War was one of the entire history of the Croatian state, which the first Croatian President Franjo Tuđman and his associates led with the entire Croatian people in their vision for the purpose, which is our homeland. This Croatian home I think we must never allow this value, and therefore what the Croatian government is doing, the Ministry of Defence headed by today's Minister Banozic, we must really give full support. With President Tudjman from this place I would like to mention and say one name, which is Minister of Defence and War Minister, Gojko Sušak, who is then part of the creation of the Croatian winning army. With all these people who speak here, we mention the great Croatian young men who had the courage, the courage to stop, to be part of that time with the first Croatian president, the defence minister is Gojko Sušak is certainly a man who deserves a full recognition of this high home and what continues as Minister Krstičević is today Minister Banozic, to give another large segment and respect for Minister Gojko Šushak. Here I will remind you of just one moment when Minister Gojko Sušak came to the United States, then Defence Minister William Perry, U.S. Secretary of State, welcomed him "I welcome the Minister of the Victory Army", then with his victorious generals Gotovina, Kapularar, Kruljac, all who were, that is, the respect we must bear. We must not allow individuals in their activist outflows of petty impulses, provocations both in this home and in the public, today we are the state that has all its segments through the system to insult the victim who is the greatest symbol in the liberation, in the creation of the Croatian state, and at the head of this symbol is President Franjo Tudjman, these are Croatian defenders, that is the winner HV who is proud of the generations of those who have failed to present the Croatian state, we have had that privilege, that is what the dear God has given us, so let us be proud as its stakeholders. We must not let those mothers who of us as Croatian defenders who have us from all parties, but in '91. We were all under command all together under the same hat. They today expect us especially to be all together and really be what many mothers are still looking for today, parents, wives of their husbands and children who are not from Vukovar and Dubrovnik and do not remember their parents who are missing and who are not yet there. And this way it is something that must not be political bickering and those who call upon the evil stars of five-pointed individuals such individuals cannot be allowed because they are not imaginary provocations but very evil ones that penetrate the greatest pain of the Croatian man.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7318	We have three replicas, the first distinguished representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7319	Thank you. Comrade Deur, you were talking about this community and the values of the 1990s that we all shared at the time, and we all knew all the information and what was going on. If we want to convey this to today's situation then we should also say this, some questions, some answers should be discussed on the working bodies, sometimes at closed sessions, because part of the data, especially one relating to values, morals and what we want to achieve, is not put on all bells. This means, you should get all the answers, have them, and in public in these delicate issues go only with a score that doesn't have to be unison, but must be on the knowledge that is available to those who decide, whether it's MORH or HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7320	Your Honor, I agree completely, by the way. Surely, many of the issues discussed by the committees are precisely for committees to be asked questions and to discuss and to make certain decisions that go fully into the parliamentary debate in the decisions themselves. And that's something that we really need to think about and at some point bring it in, but all of it means is that every MP we all have to think about together and put ourselves in a good position to such situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7321	The second replica is the esteemed representative Josip Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7322	Dear colleague Deur, I agree with your claim and the findings and role of course Minister Šushka in the Homeland War and it is good for this speaker and in this House to mention those names. Unfortunately, these valuable, well-deserved people as mentioned today by Croatian defenders, unfortunately in the public, are very few and very rarely given the opportunity to read especially in the way it really is true. I also thank you for opening this question of the missing, coming from Vukovar-Srijem County always a painful topic, always an important topic and parents who haven't found their children, of course for the rest of their lives, is their mission to do whatever is possible to find and find out their fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7323	Thank you, Your Honor. It is certain that what the MORH and Minister Krstic are doing today with Minister Banozic, Minister Krsticevic has indeed shown this segment of the power of this community, respect for the value of individuals and wartime commanders and troops through their appointment, as you yourself mentioned by Mark Babić and Gavran and Blago Zadar and many other famous and unknown Croatian heroes who had their time when the Croatian people called them. And surely the greatest pain has disappeared today, and this House certainly is something that many mothers die unable to light a candle to their children, wives, children grow up without knowing it, and it is one of the tasks of all of us and as Croatian defenders as parliamentary representatives, and as well as societies that must be valuable because without the values given in the Homeland War, we as a community cannot go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7324	The last replica of the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7325	Thank you, Vice President HS. I am pleased that at the beginning of your presentation you pointed out that at the very beginning of your presentation, the University of Defence and Security is one of the roof moves of the MORH and the Croatian Army that will put us next to the larger military forces that have high-quality universities. I'm glad you mentioned the leaders and officers who will leave that university tomorrow and who, if they can mention one great comparative advantage, will be taught by persons from the Croatian Army, the winning army. A small army today has the experience of a 20th century defence war, so I think it's a huge advantage that we definitely need to take advantage of and accelerate in the development of the University of Defence and Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7326	Thank you, Your Honor. Surely this is the privilege we have, the experience of the Homeland War that many officers carry, and we as a whole have that pain, and we have one defence experience and it is something today as a NATO member, the EU has a full security, full power in all its segments to perfect itself in one single summit because it is the Croatian people that deserves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7327	Thank you. The next debate is a respected representative of Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7328	... Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning I also want to really praise this report today, but I must also express one satisfaction that has opened up and a broader debate and that my colleague Deur has also raised the question of the missing. From the defence report delivered, we can clearly see all the activities that were during 2019 and we can conclude that a lot of power is being invested in modernising the Croatian military to achieve the desired mission, which is strengthening the military. Strengthening is not only a technique but it is also an investment in people, in their material rights, but also an education to which we should give support, and most of the debates are going in that direction today, so it's an important person, it's an important man. The report mentions that the Croatian Army has focused its special efforts on achieving 3 missions, i.e. to help civil institutions and the population and the cooperation of the Croatian Army with associations, units of local and regional (regional) self-government, in general that the Croatian Army is supporting the social community, so I welcome the return of the military to cities and cities that have a significant tradition and Croatian military, especially the Homeland War. We are all witnessing that the Croatian Army in the service of the Croatian people whether it is about putting down fires, aiding in floods and earthquakes, eventually the Croatian army came from the Croatian people, and the people towards the Croatian soldier are highly respected and feel security with him. With all aspects of homeland security, I find support to the community for the public most impressive. I am saying this from personal experience because the Croatian Army, or engineering unit in the area of the town of Pakrac, has proven its willingness to be in the service of its people. Namely, the city where the Homeland War 1 began on March 2, 1991. In his centre, he had a series of ruins that spoke the truth about the destruction during the Homeland War, and it was estimated that 75% of the city's relative to all settlements suffered war damage. Generations grew up with ruins that were no longer an aesthetic problem but became safety but also a health problem because of garbage, dead animals and other potential sources of infection. On several occasions, the Croatian Army removed about 80 ruins in the Pakrac area for which the city administration collected all the documentation to make these operations in accordance with the regulations. There are 300 more ruins left in the Pakrac area, as well as in Požega-Slavon County in the municipality of Velika and Brestovac, and the town of Lipika is also registered with a large number of ruins that can be removed in the same way with the engineering support of the Croatian Army. I hope that further cooperation to remove the ruins in my Požega-Slavon County, but also in other areas where there is a need. This provides real and direct support to the local community. The Croatian Army is developing today precisely from the value of the Homeland War and in this way the cooperation of the military and units of local and regional (regional) self-government can be supported by cities and municipalities that were killed in the Homeland War to begin to develop as others. Unfortunately, after 20 or 25 years of the Homeland War, we have to talk about the ruins, so there is no record of removal in this report, and the reason we find ourselves in the activation of the army in fires, floods and earthquakes that I welcome, but I expect to continue the action to remove the ruins. In the end, I would like to express my condolences to the family of the late Lieutenant of Brisko, and I would like to see the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army achieve the mission of action.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7329	We have one replica. Dear Representative Josip Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7330	Dear fellow Members of the Croatian Army, I agree with your claim about the role of the Croatian Army in special engineering of the Croatian Army when it comes to units of local self-government and municipalities and cities. I, as mayor for many years, work well with the Croatian Army in this regard and not just myself, all of us and my other colleagues. And it's a very valuable role in the financial sense of the Croatian Army or engineering that not only works on these jobs like you said about clearing up war ruins but also a lot of other really valuable and useful jobs, so here I think it's worth mentioning and expressing gratitude to all these engineers as we call them for everything they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7331	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7332	That fellow Saric, I must absolutely serve myself just because I took the task today to talk about the engineering unit, the engineering unit, because you know how much material assistance it is to the local administration and self-government units, but when we talk about accepting it, I want to mention it to our local Croatian soldier population as much as it really means to them, but here's the reality that I still unfortunately said there are only 300 ruins in the town of Pakrac, I hope that with the help of our engineers and it will welcome here its end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7333	Next debate, distinguished Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7334	... And colleagues, I'm a recruit in the assembly, but I'd say I'm not a novelist in the subject of women, peace and security. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Somehow and I am pleased that the topic of defense here in front of me was two colleagues, that women were also interested in the topic of security, especially the subject of what we call a human factor. And now, as a linguist, you might give a little suggestion to look around the terminology, I am not afraid in the report in accordance with the legal regulations and constitution so that the term Croatian Army is used which we all use in a Colloquial way, and not using the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, so I don't know if it could be a lighter or more difficult circumstance, so look at the use of the term itself because in the law, there are Armed Forces in the Constitution. What I would like to commend is indeed in the report a great deal of attention is given to the position of women in the Croatian Army, therefore to the Croatian Armed Forces, but unfortunately I also started to present on the Committee on Gender Equality if you look at the entire large report on page 52, there are only 9 lines dedicated to women. I'm not going to say that there's 29 about mental care, so there's no competence about it, but when we look at the whole report, it has a lot more content about women and very good analysts, so I'd like it because someone who won't read the whole report about how you always have content, so you look at gender equality and really see 9 lines, and we have other things, especially about education, excellent analysis and statistics, and I think the second one, and since I know how I'm doing it, I'm following birth statistics, I think you could learn from the Department of Defense exactly how it works, that we really know how many cadets there are this year, how many of them there were cadets, that we know if I don't know 27 pilots, then there are 3 right now pilot girls of the military. So, it's very important that maybe and that's what I would say is a well-intentioned suggestion that in the next report in one place it's going to be a little bit more extensive, so someone said every topic could definitely have more pages, so there wouldn't be 200 pages but 300 reports, but if we had a NATO report of 300 pages of participation then we might not know and here somehow in one place that we have, we have, and we have, put in place, what we consider to be women in defense. I would also like to say that when you look at these 9 lines, this is exactly what it is said, it is also based on, and dealing with gender equality, that it is based on one key resolution signed by the Republic of Croatia, here in September, another national action plan on the implementation of UN Resolution 1325 and several other 88, 620 which are specific about war conflicts and sexual violence in the war, but this one is specific because it speaks precisely about women, peace and security and understands what we are talking about today as human security and a special role of women, and this is also seen in the report, women who participate in peace missions and what it means in local communities then, together with women and prejudices and possible conflicts in those communities are working in a way that strengthens both women and women and the community themselves, and I think it is very important that what we call public security. What I was more interested in, so I'm going to ask for some additional information, is that the report needs to see who and how it deals with violence against women, not just those women who work in peace missions with other women but what the position of women is, we know very well that discrimination is women in other places, we know that it's conditional on whether it's a male area, so it's very important to know if there's sexual harassment and I think that it should also be legitimate to talk about who's actually doing education related to gender equality. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7335	Stay, we have a few replicas. Dear Representative Miro Bulj is the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7336	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric, I agree. I can say that women, mostly in the armed forces of the Homeland War, have given a great deal of pain and we must stress that. For example, in my Sinj, a Snježana Jurić Solto and known and my comrades and strangers were killed and welcomed this way, and should also be given a role in the system of women's progress within the Ministry of Defence, mainly of HV. However, I ask you one question that hurt those who created the homeland, which also created this parliamentary system, do you agree with your member's statement to the club. Catherine's, ma'am. or ma'am. Katarina Peovic, who said that it was the Homeland War that Dr. Francis Tudjman's criminal enterprise? I am interested above all in this as a parliamentary representative and, secondly, in the Declaration of the Homeland War, did you agree with Katarina Peović or did you not? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7337	Well, I'm not sure I'm here on some indictee's bench, but I wish you'd quoted your colleague Peovic more correctly, nor spoke against the Homeland War, nor did she say that President Tudjman, therefore, is a convicted war criminal. She was just saying the fact that unfortunately she's in one process because it's still happened, so don't ask me to have an opinion like you all have, and I don't think there's a topic in this assembly that can't be talked about, so I'd like to see some other topics in the same way, I really don't feel if I'm behind a pay phone saying that I'm on an indictee's bench, especially not in someone else's name, and I have to declare myself around here, I don't know the Homeland War Declaration, but I can tell you that I've been since '91. I've worked with women from Vukovar, from Slunj, with raped women, that I've translated in courts for them, I think we all have different experiences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7338	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, Boric, has been injured by an article. 238, where he claims I didn't exactly quote. I was correct to quote that the first president was dr. Franjo Tudjman on the defendant's bench that it was a criminal enterprise, i.e. that he's been convicted. She must have called for some verdicts that absolutely delegate the role of the Croatian state and that, you must determine yourself as a club whether you are for that statement or against the statement, the people must know [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7340	Thank you very much. We'll set ourselves up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7341	Next replica, distinguished representative of Ante Deur, you have more [[/Intruder: What?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7342	Dear MPs, here's because you're in favour of women's rights and that's one of your main focusses, I'd like to mention how many women there are in the Homeland War and whether you've had in this period a few years, in which way, whether you may have had cooperation with them, but here I will remind you of one fact, the 100% disabled Nevenko Topalusic, who died in Savska for the protest and once again would have wanted what your colleague, our friend, and your club mentioned to President Tudjman, which you as a club, do you want to support her statement and whether it is something that is not, I think it's not imaginary. The sacrifice of the Homeland War and the value of the death of the Croatian people cannot be placed all here in this Croatian House, that is the value we must bear or cannot be valued as the people of the first Croatian president.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7343	I'd like you to listen and have someone tell you your line that was very inconsistencies and ask me very much, you put something in it that you really have no right to ask for. We're going to appear as a club, and I'm working with women who were soldiers in the Croatian Army, one for example. of them is also led by the Association of Veterans of the Homeland War The Green Squad and deals with the robbery of Croatian forests, and therefore, I work with women from Vukovar and women from other parts of Croatia and I am still working and I was also part of the Working Party for the Making of Laws on Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War. Therefore, very carefully with the labels of people and very carefully speaking about democracy, so if we haven't found any of you, on yours, I don't know, reactions, how you see the star, and this same President Tudjman was also, under that star, then please let us have different Looking at different things and living in democracy, and we're just going to grow facts and certainly as a club, as you ask us, ask others, so we're going to show ourselves. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7344	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7345	Dear colleagues, as you mentioned, we can't talk about the star as some cheerleading prop. Through that star were killed people, children, raped women, which is why I am surprised as a man, as a Croatian defender, that you identify it with such an imaginary act, especially which evil in the Croatian state made through Serbian aggression and through a red star.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7346	You don't, you don't, ma'am... [[So please...]] Ma'am, come on... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Marin Miletic, next replica. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can't, ma'am, answer to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, you don't respond to the injury, you have another replica. You have another replica, Marin Miletic. ... Yeah, yeah, let's wait till we hear the line. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please listen to the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7347	Well, I certainly will not be dealing with radical groups and their way of idealizing some, so, the systems that have done great harm to our people, but I would still like to point out here the prominent role of women in the Homeland War which was very large and I care very much about the Homeland War, so, 23 thousand, here are the Croatian defenders, over 23 thousand women active in the Homeland War, and in my heart special and that is exactly what I want, here is pointed out, forgive me for privatizing, Violeta Wiki Antolic, whom I personally knew, several times with her, brought to Rijeka for testimony, which unfortunately died afterwards in a car accident, so here I really think that, and the past, Vukovar legend of Vukovar, defender of Vukovar, so we really do everything we can as Parliament advocates, regardless of which political platform we belong, that we always point out the value of the domestic war, and then the value of the domestic war, which we were involved in the domestic war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7348	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7349	... They're serving, they weren't about what I'm saying, and I especially think, if it's going to change the Rules of Procedure, I don't think it's right that then replicas and give, say, the most often happens, a club representative on his clubmate, and that's how you get extra time, of course, I mean everything you think, and I did it. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7350	Next debate, distinguished representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7351	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have often heard here today and I am pleased to hear that the Croatian Army is a guarantee of security, stability of the Republic of Croatia, but also of all its citizens. So I'm going to say a few words about so-called. 3rd HV mission, which is to help civil institutions and the population, and always in the service of the Croatian people. A significant incentive for even better co-operation towards the civil sector has been given by the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, where HV, as one of the important components of Homeland Security, haste services, has been identified as an equal body and this has resulted in excellent cooperation and a successful fight through standard operational procedures and exercises against various threats, some of which should be counted. Fires, we all remember from Split, from everything we looked at or participated in, floods, as I come from Karlovac County, I am very familiar with the concept of floods and participation of HV which is always ready to help when the civil sector lacks help. Earthquake, I am glad that you mentioned that first HV reaction that came out on the streets of the city of Zagreb not even two hours after, an hour and a few minutes ago, I personally witnessed that statement you mentioned, which was really emotional by that journalist, but showed the full strength of the full response of the health system, military system, police, civil protection, so it was one indicator of everything we were preparing and working on national security in that document and speaking. And now I'm going to say something else about the health system, help that healthcare system. Not only in the fight against COVID, it has often been heard here today about setting up a tent for triage, it is not just that, in the first day, the Croatian military offered its epidemiologists who have 5 available in the health system to help our epidemiologists respond. The Croatian Army is carrying its helicopters from two patient bases, from Divulje and Krka and transporting patients whose lives are at risk. It also participates in the programme of transplanting the Ministry of Health and thus enables people to live. This year, the military health system carried out 9908 health checks on its employees, showing a significantly higher level of awareness of the care for military workers. That's not negligible. It's often passed through the report, and it's not really noticed. Also what I know, and you know, some of you who sit here, that you should stress that lifelong education in the military in the health system, military education is very much present, both through lifelong education and through the specialization of healthcare professionals, whether doctors or nurses, which gives them better knowledge and skills so that they can participate in the medical care of our soldiers both in the country and NATO forces or in response to missions. What I would like to talk about is one word, which is that I expect one day our healthcare professionals in our military forces to have special specializations that some countries have, military specialization medically so that their knowledge and skills are of extra value to the Croatian state. The military health system is what needs to be talked about, there are a lot of women in that system, when we already have a woman touched here and I think the next report should pay more attention to that health care work too. Of course I will personally support this report, I've been working with our military system for a long time, and I think this report is great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7352	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Agent, we have two replicas, Mr. Uncle's first. Dear Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7353	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, in your debate, you stressed that the third mission of the Croatian army is to assist civil institutions. I would say that this is the first especially when we talk about a peacetime period, among other things, you cited a series of elemental disasters where the military immediately entered the field, stressed good co-operation with the health system and what is most important, the transport of helicopters unhappy which were hundreds this year alone and thus saved dozens of people's lives, or we can say that in the focus of the work of the Croatian army and all our services involved in protecting and saving is always man and saving human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7354	Replication response, ma'am. Bujevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7355	Dear fellow Stričak, that's right, and I hesitated to say that this is the first task or third, but our Armed Forces call it that, so that's why I used it even though it is really in peacetime conditions it is indeed the presence and need for the engagement of the Croatian army always welcome and always really a place there. So all that you've said, I absolutely confirm it and you're absolutely right because that cooperation is great and we're going to continue this cooperation through the health system further because it's exactly what you said, depending on people's lives, because human life shouldn't have a price.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7356	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Charic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7357	Dear colleague Bujević, I will remind myself of that statement by Mr. Peter Vlahov, who at the time, I will say his name, the man in my opinion then responded well, about now I would like to see all those who say that they are against investment in the Croatian military, in the Croatian police, in the fire department, etc. So it is very important to stress that investment in the Croatian Army and today we are talking about it is extremely important for the future of the Croatian state, for the development of the Croatian Armed Forces, and in this sense we really need to give full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7358	Thank you very much, reply to the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7359	Thank you for what you've said, it would be my final thought, we really need to see that OS and all those, both first and second and third missions, are developing in the right direction as they are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7360	Thank you very much. And the last individual debate, Mr. Sinisha Yankee, please, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7361	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are listening to more or less positive discussions in this House of Parliament today, except for some excellent ones, but here I am not going to comment, but they were already commented here today, and here I am particularly pleased that in the previous years there have often been no positive discussions on the state of the Croatian army, so here first of all, I congratulate the former minister, the current minister, here present representatives of the ministry, the secretary of state, because it is clear that there has been some change. We can say that this shows that after almost 20 years, we have one definitive change. The change that refers to those material assets, the refurbishment of equipment, means the mention of the Party, and Bradley, and the Kiowa Warrior helicopters and modernization of ships, various rockets, etc., the acquisition of new modern equipment, the modernisation of existing equipment, which is excellent and here after a long, long time we can read one such report, one huge jump, we can say after 20 years in modernising the Croatian Army. More importantly, the writer himself states in one of the first sentences is definitely an increase in the material rights of Croatian soldiers and I would add, I hope it will be an increase in the material rights of Croatian police officers in the future. It's visible from an increase in expenditure... that I am not particularly explaining right now but here as one of the speakers mentioned before me, we are still not at the level we should reach, that level of those percentages of the budget that should be allocated to the Croatian army so that I am glad that we have more or less one agreement, that this is a good path and that this road should continue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I won't comment on the above mentioned Bradleys, but personally I think they're great vehicles, excellent armored vehicles, and that in those professional thinking, they're spoken of as armored vehicles that will definitely make a difference in armor at this part of the work, let's say, we can say Europe or, in particular, where we like to compare ourselves often with Serbian neighbours, then it's definitely going to be one step ahead of those armored vehicles that own them or those armored vehicles that we own right now, and they're obsolete and ineffective. However, in all of these activities should continue, it should continue with as well as here heard, with an increase in the budget and with an increase and expenditure on employees but then to increase and further refurbishment and equipment and purchase of new equipment. What I would definitely still like, which I would like to highlight and that is the influence of the Croatian military on industry, especially on that defence, military industry and then directly on the economy. This is a major impact and should continue to insist on this connection between the Croatian military and the military industry, i.e. defence industry in Croatia. I also think that after more than 20 years we should start thinking again about introducing a military deadline. He doesn't have to be a year, he may be half a year but he's very important as we've heard from previous discussions. It creates a reserve base necessary to develop the potential of all military power. And it's a very important thing because if we don't have enough military power, if we don't have enough reserves that can be mobilized in a very short time, that will know how to use that military equipment, then we as a state are in trouble. Geopolitically, this is a dreary area, we all know more or less, I would just end up with a few sentences and remind us of 1988, 1989, when rarely any of these people here believed that in a year we would have a war in these areas. It can happen overnight, and if we don't have enough army, an army ready to react first, and then in that other bar, if we don't have a military reserve, then we're in big trouble and we can never ignore it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7362	Thank you very much, Mr. Yankee. We have no replicas at your exhibition, so we move on to the final exhibition, a colleague, Mako Kuzmanić, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here's my colleague Kuzmanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7363	My fellow Yankee, you obviously didn't listen well to me, so I'm just going to pick up where I left off, but I'm going to start at the end now. So Bradley is one logistics nightmare for the OSR and next to the above, I haven't listed all the details, I'll send them to my colleagues at the MORH, and the following questions are raised. Why even introduce Bradley when he's looking for a complete remont and significant investment in spare parts and maintenance equipment? Deprecated as a system 15 years ago, not compatible with other systems within the OSR, no adequate communication systems and sensory packages, his weapons systems are obsolete, no digital infrastructure on the vehicle either in the management or in the connection. We have no control over the right to sell, there is no funding in ITAR, there is no compliance with the common EU military standards, it is a complete logistics nightmare, there is no technology transfer, there is no domestic components. It takes custom tools, requires the purchase of new calibers and ammunition. In addition to modernization, he's sensitive to explosive devices. It represents a long-term dependence on individual controlled technologies, for a minimum of 20 years. Why spend 2 to 5 million per vehicle for modernization, I'm talking about dollars, so-called. donations and so much for the modernisation of the well-purchased and that they would buy at a price of 3 to 5 million apiece and thus generate a cost of $684 million? No one's seriously considering Bradley. We see the example of the Czech Republic, Poland, Australia, the Israelis rejected them, they all obtained and tested vehicles intensively, Bradley wasn't even on his mind. Why not introduce modern vehicles that are currently being considered by the United States, which are CV 90 of the same manufacturer, IFV Links and KVM Puma whose price is between 4.2m and 8.5m euros per piece, while containing the latest technologies, wearing a complete division, possessing greater resistance on the battlefield and the system and the weapons and sensors are new generations? Why don't we use EU funding through the PESCO programme and we can get up to 40% of the project's value? Let's make off a set of contracts like with Patria, why not negotiate technology transfer and produce all domes in our country and equip all Patrius vehicles with significant savings, using this EU and PESCO, develop a scientific component on communication systems and digital vehicle infrastructures. Ensure independence from anyone, use easily available EU commercial components such as Scania engines, we have a unified maintenance of the caliber and there is no need to further attach funds to VAT and as far as the details are concerned, just so you know that its 25 mm top is not used and is not compatible with the 30 mm Patri vehicle, means new caliber, new ammunition, new costs, separate purchases, storage and complete completion in the fight. Engine dedicated... from VT 903 T diesel is not compatible with other engines in OS RH, requires a separate maintenance system, repair of the supply of parts, need additional training. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All subsystems dedicated to this possibility of purchase is extremely expensive and limited, benefits... and Javelin missiles, one of them is $83,000 and the other is 206, which are not in use on any RH vehicle and Patria uses Spike and Euro Spike worth $100,000 whose average price is their average price, that is their average price including the management unit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Anyway, Bradley may be responding to someone but definitely not responding to the Croatian Armed Forces because that 25 mm cannon is insufficient in relation to modern vehicles and is problematic in use in urban conditions, not compatible with NATO's standard of arms, 30x173. It does not produce enough electricity to equip modern systems, the dimensions of the vehicle have an extremely large silo and are an easy goal and also reduce the passing in urban conditions. There is no protection of the upper decks of the vehicle, the installation of laminates with titanium for additional protective plates is planned, it does not have sufficient capacity to supply the electricity of the additional protection system... communication. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are no protective seats to reduce the impact of new generation explosions, or for the last 10 years, the fuel tank in the lower part of the vehicle makes it extremely sensitive to the land mines of an improvised explosive device. I won't talk about the losses, what was on them, mostly, either you're uninformed or you're deliberately saying things like that. I really said this in conversation with people and with available data on the State Department page and in best interest gave it to my colleagues from the Ministry of Defence who, in part, agree with it, so I hope Mr. Yankee that perhaps a little bit you too, since we are all working in the common interest, which is in the interest of the Croatian people and in the interest of the OSR, will be a little audit of your opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7364	Thank you very much, Mr. Kuzmanic. Next, Mr. Representative Miro Bulj is on behalf of the Alliance of Independent Lists' Representatives' Club, final. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7365	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear secretary, two secretaries in the MRLs, colleagues and colleagues, I would say, finally, that I believe that the representatives of the ministry have heard all the objections and that we will now hear their answer at the end but that these measures will be taken, in particular, we see good and noble remarks in the case of Bradley's vehicle, means that we see what is and how, that what happens in numerous public procurements, that they are at the expense of the Croatian army and of tax obligations, and that they are not meaningful. But I would end up here saying that, I think it's surprising to me that the parties that are in power on a very important report, the example of the SDSS, didn't give their position at all as a club, so I don't even know if it ever happened, that the club that's in power, that cooperates here didn't give its position on the defence report, I can't understand it at all, did you agree anything and how they'll behave in the case of your report. As far as the Croatian military itself is concerned, it is unquestionable, the Croatian army is the cornerstone of the Croatian state, it should invest as much in the Croatian army as possible in the budget, preserve all the capabilities it has and invest first and foremost in every man what we have to be realistic and say that something has been invested in Croatian soldiers but it is not at that level as it is stressed here. If it were better than before, I should admit it, however, I would talk here about another economic development as far as the Croatian army is to be encouraged, which is from Djura Djakovic, those driving industrial branches that the Croatian state, together with the Croatian military, should launch rather than question the numerous public procurements that are essentially costing taxpayers. He would point out once again that the Croatian Army as an integral part of Homeland Security has a significant role not only in terms of war but also in terms of bites that we currently have in Croatia and in the world so that it would agree in part that the numerous actions that Croatia had or participated in many missions were even unnecessary for me in Afghanistan and it is good that you withdrew from Afghanistan because enough are our Croatian soldiers, our sons for centuries, not only in this country, Croatia, to be clay pigeons who know who knows who and who knows whose interests they were and why they were there and why they were wounded and death, it is now a question that the Croatian state had of that, except that someone brought us back into the coffin. I don't know what we did there either in the front power or I don't know di, we who in the MOTH system want as many of our sons put into difficult areas and in return we get nothing but boast we're good with NATO, some praises. I don't see that kind of, why didn't our best allies say that, here are the F-16 planes or I don't know which, we give you, you give the most soldiers proportional to your population within operations, but here you continue to hold on to "poor sons and wealthy oxes", so that the Croatian army and apparently the Croatian people still have to pay their blood on certain missions with so-called. missions or actions where it's not very simple is not that it's not risky. It's not that it's not risky because we also have the deaths of Croatian soldiers and apparently, lucky for us, one victim is large, not many more victims. So we don't roll like geese in the fog, so as soon as we fly like sheep to salt and say we send our sons, defend front lines, a number of high-risk missions, and basically what do we get in return? Which vehicles, which, in the end, we turn out to be the last one on the tail with all the praises around NATO, we are the last one on the tail. We're losing essentially the abilities we had when we weren't in NATO. So what's our interest in all these missions? Is it the interest of these missions to protect the national security of the Republic of Croatia or to protect the interests of, I don't know, some powers? Is one life and the safety of a Croatian citizen more important than all interests I do not know whose powers or certain conflicts, Russia, Americans,... I don't even know who it occurred to in this way to send our sons into these missions, to great risks until we protect our borders, to protect our front borders towards Russia, and whoever comes to our borders, illegal migrants, day and night, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and threatened people. [[Stojica Ostojić: colleague Bulj, thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7366	Thank you. Now, please, Mr. Secretary of State Zdravko Jakop, on behalf of the motionary, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7367	Honorable chairman, respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. First of all, I want to thank you for your discussion, I can say that it has been very helpful for me, to see that view of that report that is essentially for 2019, although the debate has also gone to some parts of the other areas and other times, but we will also try to use it in our further work. Be assured that the Croatian army and that name are in line with the law, although I have no problems with the OS, because it has value and some importance, is ready to face the challenges and we want to be better and we will try to take advantage of any such opportunities. Use it, you heard me well. So I thank you all, but I want to start by saying that this report for 2019 shows the right state, it's not at all fixed, nor is it our intention, and you who were on certain committees, I believe that you could recognize it. What is a particular challenge when making such a report is respecting all the positive legal rules, Mr. Parliamentarian Tudjman said something about it, we must respect certain regulations regarding security, the secrecy of data because today it is no secret how many tanks there are, Croatia is a signator and a Vienna document and a sub-regional arms control agreement but it is certainly secret in what state these tanks are, and especially in what state those who should possibly be, must use those tanks in one of the constitutional tasks. So I hope you understand me in that part. And since there's been a lot of talk about Bradley, then I'm going to start from him and tell you that without any problem you can and without any delay, we're talking about the report in 2019, raise my hand to this report. Why? Because I believe your debate was as well-intentioned as it was from the Parliament's representative of the Yankees. Why? Because modernized Bradley and even the one that would get better would be better than what we have right now. And also this vehicle that you mentioned that Bradley's manufacturer would be better off than a modernized Bradley. And now I'm going to say no to the secretary of state, but the same as the secretary of state who flew into the air in the Homeland War would be far happier if this House would grant us funds and we could get new funds. The new one you were talking about here. And when I said that you can raise your hand without a problem and I hope that you will encourage your club and that there are no obligations to Bradley, we are talking about the 2019 report, when the possibility of even discussing it has arisen, we are discussing it to this day, if there will be funds, and if it is estimated to be the best solution, it might be going in there, if there is a better solution, I believe that without a problem then you will go along with that better solution. And all of your analysts, I've also told you on the board, I congratulate you on that because it shows, and it's nice to me, it's been a very positive experience because it's been spent a lot of time, an effort to get you or someone you've been working with, because I'm looking at it positively, no, whoever did it, it's not that easy to get all that data and around, thank you for your willingness to share it with us and be sure that I know what data and more, but it fascinated me positively and every honor and thank you for this willingness. Maybe when we talk about the economy, no, what's mentioned in the report as a figure, 314 million, it's one segment and our desire to increase these numbers, but here some things aren't just about the Ministry of Defence, but maybe the Ministry of Economy and others, and regional development, but in a way and certain economic operators to accept all these challenges, so we try to take a step together and I've already said in the opening act that we've made a certain step towards production and remont because you've mentioned a remont of certain weapons, not to say certain ammunition, and that's a positive step. I would like it to be so in the economic entity that you listed but also here it has already been said, Đuro Đakovic and I hope that they too will find ways to make the level that they had and the impact they had at some time, somehow recognize today and make that impact in terms of production and support higher than it is today and we are ready to give support, be sure. When we talk, there was a question here about certain data, an analysis about the neighborhood or some other organization, make sure we have more information than it says here, and also in that neighbor. It would be inconclusive if we didn't have that data. As for the incentives or food and OPG producers, as well as, as we are prepared to discuss arms and military equipment, so would all those segments that concern health, I would say, all the needs of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers with that you must understand that we do not influence all these processes because certain services and support to the Ministry of Defence are provided by other economic operators and they are also independent of who they will conclude contracts with and how they will support the Ministry of Defence i.e. The members of the Department of Defense. And finally, I will say that the military call is honorable but also risky, that our presence in international operations is in line with all the decisions made by this House, meaning no activity particularly international, we can't and we don't want to do without formal procedure, and that you are allowing us, in fact, and you are giving it in some way, and I expect that or I am asking you to, so I will say, because we are approaching the time when it will talk about the budget here, it is directly related to the abilities, development and implementation of the tasks that the Morh and the Croatian military are doing, and here I am asking you to keep this account and to give us support so that those goals that, and it is mentioned by Mr Tudjman, in terms of the distribution of that budget to the staff and we are kind of raised that level, but that we are also left with this modernization, that we don't need to believe in modernising the old, but also to be able to move with new capacity. Thank you very much once again, we gave the most of ourselves we could at that moment when we did the report, all of this once again, which is here we will use as experience to make the next one but all of your discussions, I dare say well-meaningly, as I said well-intentioned both from one and the other, related to the Bradley case, so that and well-meaning, all of this here we will try to implement in our daily work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7368	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. We have two replicas, Mr. Kuzmanic's first representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7369	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, you gave me the impression of a person of integrity and of a person who really cares about our defence system for that very reason, and I'm going to give you the first one support when you're making a budget, that we'd rather buy something new, quality something because we're not a country that can afford some mistakes and I've also asked questions here, there are already companies that this Bradley should be equipped with, I'm interested in what companies are working on, and in some way who are also the owners of those companies who want to deal with these vehicles already. I don't want to doubt or think ill, but I'm sure since you're the general of the Croatian army, when buying this, keep in mind that, imagine that your child is inside, would you prefer to be in one Bradley, in one Linkes or in one Puma. And that's it, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7370	Thank you very much, Mr. Kuzmanic. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7371	Here I don't know if you are, but I did break my head in an armored vehicle so you can be sure that you wouldn't do anything to yourself or anyone who's with me, but especially whoever you're supposed to be in charge of, do your homework, or force him into something that's wrong or something that's weak. I would like to give him the best in the world as much as possible because here it has already been said there is no greater value than life, human life, and we all have a duty to protect human life but ultimately to do our homework. And as for Bradley, once again, they're nothing yet and still at the debate stage, no obligations have been taken over, so even with regard to these powerful companies that I've been saying are speaking, there are no commitments taken here from this place I can say. As it goes on, it will depend on the possibilities, among other things, the financial ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7372	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. We have another replica, Mr. Uncle's esteemed representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7373	Thank you. State Secretary, at the very beginning of the debate, you said loud and clear that the Croatian army had done all the tasks that were put before it during last year. However, during the further debate, there was a lot of debate on finances, so over the years were the problems with financing the needs or tasks of the Croatian military also seen for peacekeeping missions, weapons, equipment, material expenditure, and what problems did you face most if there were?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7374	Thank you very much, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, for this matter. I would not tell the problems because if we had such an approach then the problem has a million, I would talk more about the challenges within the possibilities, available opportunities and what is our obligation, our obligation is to spend responsiblely these funds in a way that raises the readiness and ability of Croatian soldiers, Croatian military, OS or MORH, and also to take care of the safety of that soldier. We would like this relationship to be a little different, to go more, to go towards the two in terms of total funds and to have this ratio be as some of the NATO guidelines in terms of more funds for modernisation... but what we had, we tried to use as best as possible to meet all constitutional but international obligations as best as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7375	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much, no more replicas. So, do any of the committee rapporteurs want to take the floor? I hereby conclude a debate which, as you know, Mr. Secretary of State, you have seen if I may quote you to be well-intentioned, constructive and constructive, so, as far as the budget is concerned, I appeal to the smart specialization where the safety and defence of the five-based pillars is concerned, you will get a bigger budget and we will vote for it. Thank you very much. We move to the next point, so this is: - Proposal for the appointment of presidents and eight members of the Board of State Award sport "Franjo Bučar" is a promotional minister of tourism and sports based on Article. 80. Sports law. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Does the proposal's representative, Mr. Secretary of State Tomislav Družak, want to give an additional explanation? Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7378	Dear MPs and respected MPs, you are facing today's proposal for the appointment of presidents and eight members of the Board of State Sports Award "Franjo Bučar" for the next term of four years. The "Franjo Bučar" State Prize itself is defined as an art. 79 to 81. The sport law is treated as the highest recognition the Republic of Croatia has given for exceptional achievements and a contribution of particular importance to the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia. The same State Prize shall be awarded to experts and public employees in the field of sports, sports and legal or physical persons performing sports activities or responsible for the development of sports. The state award consists of a special diploma, a medal with the figure Franjo Bučar and a monetary figure the head of the state authority responsible for sport determines by decision. Each year, three prizes for life's work are awarded and 12 awards for annual achievements in sports at national level. The decision to award a state award shall be made by the Committee of State Award "Franjo Bučar" on the basis of the proposals collected, while the process of collecting the proposal itself takes place in a very transparent manner, i.e. through a public call made in daily newspapers and on the official pages of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, which shall take place on September 2nd of this year. The term of office of committee members, as I have already stated, lasts for 4 years, or one committee implements the process 4 times and how the term of office of the present meeting expires in 2020, before you is the proposal for a new meeting of the Committee. The proposed members and members of the new committee are respected employees in the system of sports, sportsmen and athletes who have built their name on/or alongside sports resorts around the world, or in their daily activities, promote positive values of sport practice and are proposed by the head of the State administration body, in our case, according to the said article. 80.6. Sports law. There's a group of people in front of you today that we're proposing and let me just say a few short sentences about every candidate. For the president of the Committee of State Prizes, the sport "Franjo Bučar" is named extraordinary Prof. Dr. Tomislav Krističević, dean of the Faculty of Kinesiology at the University of Zagreb. For members of the "Franjo Bučar" State Prize Committee, the name is Marijeta Celic, born. Željković, president of the Tekvando Federation of Karlovac County, best Croatian athlete in 1998, member of the House of Slavic Tekvando, Secretary-General of the Karlovac Sports Community; Vlado Šola, top athlete, Croatian handballer, Olympic medal winner, gold at the Olympic Games in Atlanta and Bronze in London in 2012; Perica Bukić, Croatian representative in water polo, winner of two gold medals at the Olympic Games in Los Angeles and Seoul in '88. And in '84, too. in Los Angeles, executive vice president of the Croatian Water polo Union; Damir Martin, rower, winner of two silver medals at the Olympic Games in London in 2012 and Rio de Janeiro 2016; Stipe Pleikosa, Croatian football representative, winner of numerous medals at major sports competitions; Stojko Vranković, Croatian basketball representative, winner of two silver medals at the Olympic Games in Seoul in '88. And Barcelona in '92. Mr. President of the Croatian Basketball Federation; Mihovil Spain, Croatian Paralympic, 4 Bronze Medals at the Paralympic Games in Athens in 2004 and 2012 in London and Anamarija Vukovic, prominent Croatian sports journalist, editor and sports director of Novi TV Dnevnik. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7379	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. We have a line on you, so please, Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7380	Thank you very much. I would say here when we talk about rewards, of course, if athletes deserved the Franje Bučar awards, however, everyone would have some personal desires, I'd like to say that he got Stipe Vrcan, if you'd heard of the coach of the Alkara '84. in the final bath with Bosnia, with the champion of Europe, but probably those people who gave a lot of sport at lower levels, but the giants will never come to that order because they are away from the altar, not reducing anyone... However, I would say here the illogicality that happens around these measures, if you can tell, since you're in charge of sports so our children in some... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can practice privately in school I can't, basketball can't train, yesterday the prime minister plays basketball, Prime Minister Plenkovic without problems in the video, and our children can't play, and what is it, do you have any reaction to the double standards of sports in the halls and playgrounds? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7381	Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7382	I thank you, Mr. Representative, for asking. Yes, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports has been in intensive negotiations for 2 weeks now with the Ministry of Science and Education and the Croatian Ministry on how to use school sports halls for the system of sport. It was a priority and it was actually some attitude that at the first stroke, at the first moment prevailed to try in the first days, or the first weeks of school to preserve the education system, means children and employees in the education system. When we talk about sports in indoor areas, with this teaching, it is allowed to mean in these school sports halls beyond the time of the teaching process, the teaching program, I can deal with, I can use these halls for 3 persons, and these are senior athletes, I think that through the next 10, for the longest time in the next 10 days, we will come up with a solution that school children can also use school sports halls.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7383	Thank you very much. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7384	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, you've read a brief, 1-2 sentence on the president and members of the National Sports Award Committee itself, and there's not much to discuss, there are all prominent individuals with quality résumés, I think they'll do their job well. I just want to commend you and the ministry that you've just been paying close attention to representation and that there's also the academic community, the Chinese college, that there's also a representative of the Paralympics, that there's a prominent journalist, so I think, when we look at the taste of everything, no matter what the top athletes are about this representation, I think this time we're going to have a very good quality board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7385	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7386	That's right, when we looked at the council, the composition of people who would be members of this committee, since it's also about the term of office for 4 years, we've tried to just look at all the components, all the components of sports or sports workers, and I think we've managed to guess because it's simply some sort of class of people who can be objective, but also professionally make decisions about who is going to be awarded this year's prize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7387	... family, youth and sport. [[Specially enabled.]] The committee's rapporteur, I see there's no missus here. President Karoline Vidovic Kristo, so I'm opening the debate. The first came to the Club of Representatives of the Most on behalf of the Club of Representatives, Mr. Marin Miletic, the Honorable Mr. Representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7388	Dear vice president of HS, colleagues, fellow MPs, here we are, who stayed here at this hour at 18 and 46 minutes from 8 and 30, colleague Bulj and I here, so here we are, thank you all who are here at this time. I'd like to talk again about the importance of sports on behalf of the Bridge Club. Yesterday we watched our prime minister hack on the playground, here, I've got basketball in my heart, 23 years playing basketball, and this season, I'm coming to two times a week training and then I'm running around Zagreb, I'm going to play this season for my Casta, the A-2 League West. And once again, I appeal. So 10 thousand athletes, 10 thousand of our kids, 10 thousand young people, I spoke in this honorable House, from this place, can't deal with sports right now, can't train right now, I don't know how responsible we can be to be aware of the situation that these kids stop playing sports. We know how important the continuity of work is how important continuity is for anyone, and for athletes. And the kids don't train for months, the field coaches tell us that the kids are being printed out of clubs, the big problems are, and all the gym clubs are, and then we have the situation we have. So we have a series of illogicalities, that children, for example. I can't train karate in the school hall, and at the same time, these same kids can go to gym and have gym class. So, I ask you to do as responsible in power everything you can to enable children to engage in sports and to have children return to the halls. It's very, very important. It's important, not just for children, it's important to work, at the end of the whole system, for health, for the whole story that we have within our society. I would like to encourage, I know that Covid pandemic has also brought great financial difficulties, not only at the level of the world but also in our country, but here I remind you that the share of segregation for sport and recreation from budgets in our country is only 0.2%. We are at the last place in the EU and convincingly, we are at the very bottom when investment is observed per capita. The budget is only worth 13.3 euros, while Hungary, for example, stands out 150 euros per capita. And now, where are we? Where are the Hungarians? The EU averages about a hundred euros per capita, a hundred euros, I apologize, and is preceding richer countries such as Luxembourg 492 euros, Sweden 256 euros and Finland 206 euros. Along with Croatia, Bulgaria, which totals 16 euros, Slovakia, which allocates 23 euros and Romania, are significantly below the average. It saddens this fact. So we're not just rated as one, and I've talked about it from this honorable place, from the most corrupt countries in the EU that we should all fight, as much as we can, every one of us where he is. Well, here's what we see by investing in sports. There are big problems with coaches, incentives from the Central State Sport Office as part of measures to help clubs, due to the crown crisis and everything we've had, difficulties, difficulties it was actually a fire department to help sport which is for every praise and thanks for that, but we can't forget another 8 hundred dance associations not at all in that story, they're the same athletes. Whoever cares about these people and I encourage you, here's what we can do. So, in particular, an example in the city of Rijeka, but also in some other local self-governments, it is possible to perform everything, in city halls as currently possible for professional athletes to deal with sports, as well as open schools, open halls so that children can finally live healthy. We should do what we say with our own language so easily, and that is to worry about our young people, to worry about the health of our children and youth, and then, what happens sometimes turns out to be just at the level of theory, and in practice we have that for months or if you want, more intensely, in recent weeks, we think about what we do to be responsible for the health of children because it's also very important given Covid, but on the other hand, we know well now, we have seen that, the public data has been presented, I haven't brought them out. That over 400,000 people in the Republic of Croatia have passed the story of Covid. Experts are now saying that we may already have herd immunity, some say the number is up to a million. All right, I'm not, I don't belong to that profession, but now I'm repeating the data that they bring out, and then is it time for the waist to finally sit down and the waist to say what losses we have because the halls are closed to our kids, because the halls are closed to children, because children can't play sports. What will be the consequences of their psychophysical health? Does anyone think about it, which means anxiety, depression? How much will it cost to treat people who are disabled from sports? Here, I ask you on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge here from this honorable place in our assembly to do everything you can to get the children back to the hall. What I hear on the ground today was a bile debate about this and in the County Assembly of Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, whether, in my city, athletes received support from both Rijeka Olympics and top athletes who had publicly stepped up and asked all relevant ones, and particularly Mr. Fuchs for the move to clear the issue and allow the children to return to sports halls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7389	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. In the name of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7390	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, distinguished secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Proposal for a Decision appointing the president and 8 members of the State Prize Committee "Franjo Bučar". So, as Mr. Secretary of State said in the introduction, it is a state award for sport, as the highest recognition given by the Republic of Croatia for exceptional achievements in sport in therefore different branches and areas, and of course, I will only remind myself that it has been regulated by the Law on Sports and the Rules of State Award for Sports "Franjo Bučar" and, of course, that the Committee publishes the names of award-winning and solemnly awarding state prizes in November and this is the occasion of the anniversary of Franjo Bučar's birth. And it is already said, I will repeat, however, this award is awarded for several years of successful sport action, the conquest of the Olympic medal, the extremely scientific or pedagogical achievement or sports achievement, and, of course, the decision itself on the award of the State Prize is made by the Committee of State Prizes of Sports "Franjo Bučar" and the president and 8 members of the State Prize are appointed by the Croatian Parliament and, as has already been pointed out, from the order of prominent sports and public employees, prominent athletes and other prominent experts in the field of sports, and at the time of 4 years, it is possible to award a maximum of 15 national awards, of which 3 for life's work. As already mentioned and said, I will again, therefore, for the members of the "Franjo Bučar" State Award Committee, a well-known, well-known and well-known athlete or sports workers who have been prominent in their work in different components of sport, and for this very reason, I have the need to repeat once again what these names are and who are prominent and established sports workers and athletes who are proposed for a four-year term by the Ministry of Tourism. So for the chairman of this committee, it is proposed that the extraordinary Professor Dr. Tomislav Krstičević, otherwise dean of the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb but also president of the Croatian Athletics, persons with disabilities and visiting professor at Beijing Sport University, therefore a person who as a dean of the Faculty of Kinesiology deserves to be proposed here for the chairman of this committee. For the members of the board are proposed Marijeta Celić, a top athlete, member of the Croatian taewondo team since '91. until 2000, also the president of the taekwondo alliance of the Karlovac County, member of the House of Celebrity taekwondo and Secretary-General of the Karlovac Sports Community. The member is also proposed by Vlado Šola, otherwise top athlete, Croatian handball team, Olympic medal winner and gold medals in Athens in 2004 and bronze in London in 2012 and winner of a series of medals in major sports competitions. The member is also proposed by Perica Bukic, also top athlete, Croatian water polo representative and winner of two gold medals at the OI in Los Angeles in '84. And Seoul in '88. Mr. also conqueror of a series of medals in major sports competitions and also Executive Vice-President of the Croatian Water polo Union. The member is also proposed to Damir Martin, a rower, also a top athlete, the winner of two silver medals at the OI in London in 2012 and in Rio de Janeiro in 2016, also the winner of a series of medals in major sports competitions. Stipe Plerikosa, also a proposal for a board member, top athlete, Croatian football team, winner of also a series of medals in major sports competitions. It should be noted and reminded that Stipe Pletikosa as a football doorman performed 114 times for the football team and thus the second by number on the performance scale. Next proposal for board member Stojko Vranković, top athlete, Croatian basketball representative, winner of two silver medals at the OI in Seoul in '88. and Barcelona in '92, also the winner of a series of medals in major sports competitions and also the president of the Croatian Basketball Federation. Mihovil Spain, next proposal, swimmer, top athlete, winner of 4 bronze Paralympic medals at POI in Athens in 2004 and London in 2012, also the winner of a series of medals at major sports competitions and should be pointed out that Mr. Mihovil Spain is also the winner of the 2004 France Bučar State Prize. And finally Anamarija Vuković, journalist, editor and director of sports work Dnevnik Nova Tv, author of numerous reports and personal stories about Croatian football team athletes. Finally, the HDZ Club will support the proposal for a decision to appoint presidents and 8 members of the Committee of the State Prize "Franjo Bučar" and I remain to remind me, therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Club that the European Week of Sports, which takes place on 23 September, is being organised by the Ministry of Tourism and Sports as a national coordinator and of course, is an initiative of the European Commission, supported every year by an increasing number of sports collectives, but also by a public life person who, together with citizens, promotes the slogan "Be Active" and thus encourages the environment to physical activity. Of course, in these circumstances that we currently have, while I think of the epidemiological conditions, it is not easy to get used to the new normal but it is not necessary to forget what is most important and for this reason and this year here, by following all the epidemiological measures and recommendations of the Centre of Civil Protection of the Republic of Croatia, the European Week of Sports is maintained and this year's news is certainly ambassadors of heroes and among them, certainly members of the HGSS, firefighters, the Union of Croatian Scouts, Alpinists, Speleosis, heights that helped with the result of the devastating earthquake in Zagreb and the surrounding area, and therefore our ambassadors and heroes, and here, one of them, the representative of the Public Fire Department of the City of Zagreb, Commander Darko Brlečić said the following: to deal with any kind of physical activity, the most important thing is to overcome that obstacle in the head, and to make it easier to join one another sport, and to the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7391	Thank you very much, ma'am. MPs. On behalf of the SDP Club will speak Irena Simunic, a respected lady. Representative Simunic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7392	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the honourable secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. The state sport award Franjo Bučar is the highest recognition that the Republic of Croatia is awarding for exceptional achievements in sport and for outstanding contribution to the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia. This is therefore a prize that celebrates excellence and excellent sports results, but it should be stressed that this should be a reward that is also given for years of successful performance in sport, exceptional scientific professional and pedagogical achievements that must not be abandoned or underestimated because they are extremely significant, and they refer to what is already said, which is very important, which is the teaching of young people to devote themselves to sport. The State Prize for Sports "Franjo Bučar" is awarded as an annual prize and a Lifetime Work Award under the State Prize Regulation for Sports "Franjo Bučar" annually, as has already been said, can be awarded up to 15 national awards, of which 3 can be awarded for life's work. This important task is to choose the best amongst the excellent, according to the Law on Sports and the regulations mentioned above, which is precisely decided by this committee whose composition we are discussing today. The SDP representative club supports the proposal for a decision to appoint board members. All the proposed presidents, presidents, presidents and 8 board members are in turn all people whose career is impressive, top athletes, representatives from different sports disciplines, winners of world medals, and they are also different sports, different sports experts, prominent sports and public employees. I believe that these proposed board members will be accepted unanimously, if not, to the vast majority of these votes, but I still have to add one remark that is not crucial or crucial, but is a symbolic message. Since we have athletes and athletes in Croatian sport, I also point out that in future proposals we care for equal representation of women, that if we continue this trend in the next appointments we will not have any members of the board. I remind you that this year's 4-year term, appointed 2 December 2016, is the relationship between men and women 6:3, and in this proposal today it is visible that it is 7:2. It is also, I hope that this suggestion will be accepted in the future, it is also an observation by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, who also discussed this point at its 1st session, so that we do not need it to happen in the next term, so that this ratio is not accidentally 8:1, 9:0, which is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable. To all elected board members, I want a lot of success in the work and as much candidacy as possible. The public tender process is under way and ends at the end of the month, which means that this committee is expecting a demanding task very soon. Choose Croatian sports medals. I believe that the board will also discuss quality requests and justly valorise all proposals, and that for the "Franjo Bučar" State Prize, the best, the best, who will be crowned at the ceremony on the occasion of the anniversary of the birth of Franjo Bučar by this highest sports recognition for outstanding sports results, top-notch successes, and also what is very important, for the promotion of our country around the world, which we are all deeply grateful and proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7393	... Your Honor, ma'am. MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] The next is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Davor Dretar. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7394	My respects, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of HS. I have to admit that I'm new to politics, but I think I can congratulate you on the first chair meeting of HS. ... I wish you many more happy and successful presidencies and that I will welcome and honored Mr. Secretary of State Mr. Comrade and dear colleagues and colleagues who are still here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, it's 19 and 7 minutes, so let me start with one wish for success right now, the Locomotiva and Rijeka are starting to play their European games, and in an hour and Hajduk, so let's wish them a lot of sports luck in their European exams. But let's go back here to sports. This committee is something that the Homeland Movement will, of course, absolutely support, the composition of this same committee because it is about exceptional Croatian athletes, athletes, professional people from the field of sports or kinesiology, so there is no conversation about it. We are all aware that we are at the moment of the crown of the crisis which has a great impact of course on the event of sports competitions and, of course, on what concerns us most, and that is how our children will be engaged in sports. We all know that exclusively to our athletes, our athletes and their successes, almost nothing can unite the nation so much, that you have so much positive energy and sometimes of course stress as sports can. Sports successes, but equally sports failures, show us how good we are and how bad and when it's not going well, we have to be even better. Let's just think of our athletes, if it were simply not for our football team, the table player, the tennis player, Ivica and Janice, the handball player, the waterman, the rower, the boatman, the paralympics, the gymnasts, simply in these 10 minutes it wouldn't even matter, but let me remind you that they were all children, children who were in a school hall or on a meadow or on some hill started their first sporting steps. Yesterday was the European Day of Sports, our prime minister hung out with athletes of all generations and of course talked about the usefulness of sports, which none of us should or may not doubt, but unfortunately at the same time, the famous headquarters and HZJZ in society with two ministries make decisions that sports clubs are throwing into despair. On September 18th, HZZ and two ministries, those sciences and education and tourism and sports, made new decisions regarding conducting training in school halls that we really have to admit, led to the absurdity of the situation in which we are and we must say, even though it is about sports, even though it is about children, I do not want to collect political points here but we must point out the hypocrisy of both the Government and our respected prime minister who speak one thing and the other prescribes. To begin with, one of the measures is the use of school-sports halls by external users, can only be organised during a time when students are not at school, weekends and evenings after the completion of the course on a working day but a period of time must be respected which will allow for the absence of meeting external users with students and school staff, so one hour is foreseen. It's clear to all of us that this really means that if the school lasts until 19, while the hall is disinfected, athletes can't go to the gym, there's no cleaning lady, there's usually one bad one again, and it seems like a completely inappropriate decision that's actually trying to sort out the situation and save the thing but it's doing the exact opposite. Another measure, even stranger in the school-sports hall, quotes "cannot be organised training where students from different classrooms or students together with other persons can train for seniors. When training students together can train students from the same class."Let us really interpret this a little bit and bring it down to that ordinary, elementary school level, whether we have on the school team 10 basketball players or elementary school players, if we have them from, say, 7th and 4, from 7th and 4th, one from 7th and two from 7th, they can't actually train at the same time in the same day in the same hall, I don't know which coach in the world would manage to organize a team that would play so that players or players train each in their day and a separate term. So all these restrictions apply to our children's training in school halls. Interestingly, if they have their own spaces or use those urban areas, there are no restrictions. Apparently, the virus has one ability to distinguish space, the school halls go, to city halls and private ones just don't go down. At the same time, professional clubs in these same school halls have training and these rules do not apply to them. There's another interesting case, to make everything even more absurd, if you're a member of a younger category, games are allowed on weekends but over a week the trainings are disabled due to contact. So, we can go to the game, sit in a van or a bus, next to each other, but, well, we can't train. Now, I thank my fellow Miletic, who reminded him and I must admit, I have a dear friend who runs the dance school, and they are brought into an absurd situation that I can't work, I can't train sports or dance is just as much of a praiseworthy physical activity, so it's not easy for them either. Absurd to absurdity, which is from our children who want to play sports, makes test rabbits for decisions that are completely pointless and completely incomprehensible to any normal person. Therefore, the Homeland Movement supports this proposal but the competent ministry should stop the hypocritical behavior that destroys sports enthusiasm and the future of our children. Today we are proud of the successes of our athletes but they were all once children, children ready to sacrifice their free time and socialize with friends out of love for sport. Please do not destroy this enthusiasm and love of our children who will one day be top athletes, coaches or simply amateurs or recreationals to whom sport will become an inexorable part of life. On the one hand, you can't praise the successes of our athletes and on the other hand defend the children's entrance to the school halls. Stop using top athletes on the one hand to promote Croatia and our tourism and to stop all sports activities of our children on the other. The children deserve an environment in which they will develop their affinities and abilities, and this is how we pray, do not steal their future under the exception of health care. Once again, the Homeland Movement is aware of the current effects of the crown crisis and we believe that it will disappear and normal life will not only return to the streets but also to school and sports halls all over ours. Once again, we support this composition of the board, we agree that we would like to see a little more women in it, but I believe that's just that, a composition that will change just as much as the people who will get this prize. We support this composition of the award committee, Croatian athletes and athletes, sports workers and recreational athletes, we want a lot of happiness and health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7395	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. .../incomprehensible/... so I'm opening an individual debate, or we're continuing. Mr. Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7396	Thank you very much. Here's what the predecessors have to do as a parliamentary representative, of course that... on the proposal for the Franje Bucara Prize for the people who will decide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, I personally have nothing against these people, I said earlier that I would like someone to win the prize, myself personally, is it, of those who have promoted sports and at local levels di is much harder than in elite sports classes, here, I mentioned to Stipa Wrcan or the Ragby Club Sinj, so we have coaches numerous, we have people who give to others, whether, of course, sports associations and collectives, but these are my wishes. Of course, we all have to have some cheerleader passions like my colleague Dretar said before me that sport is what unites us as nothing else that can unite us, mainly within us in the Croats, if anyone unites us, behind Slobodan Milosevic who has united us with his aggression, unfortunately in his bloody campaign of self-defense. Sports is what we need to promote not only as far as the top scores are concerned, but really, I ask you once again whether you in the government consider reasonable decisions, reasonable decisions to be discriminatory part of the diet, mostly children, of course other athletes, here, mentioned from dancers to I don't know, all people, who even some have sources of existence that give training, training, simply people are in chaos. Private halls, can be trained, city halls can be, school halls, can't be. A couple of kids in this class can, a few of them don't know what coaches are going to, like sports communities. to me in, at my local level coming up, they don't know how to function. So you simply as a responsible person for sport, a sports secretary with the Ministry of Tourism, you simply have to react to stop this discrimination. I don't know where they get those decisions from at all headquarters, I can't figure out those decisions from before, which they made that farmer can't fertilize his own, his farm land can't throw the garbage, the garbage, as you want to know, how you want to figure it out, but those people who did it wrote penalties. Penalties for being out of isolation, although no one was within a mile of it. And here in sports means, a few days the virus works, a few don't work, for... It's working, it's not working, so what kind of virus is it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can someone explain it professionally here? I mean really brought people into confusion, parents were brought into confusion, children in confusion, sports are promoted, I see that yesterday the Prime Minister came to take basketball, he's a great basketball player from the street of Zagreb and he played basketball and that's okay, I got nothing to do with it. But we have a problem here sports associations, clubs, people who work, and mostly children and their parents. Well, literally, you're gonna freak out those poor kids. You'll freak out your parents, and you'll freak out sports employees. I don't know if there is, is there any coordination between you as the main man in the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Civil Protection Headquarters? Because what they're doing, it's unreasonable, logically unreasonable. I'm not an expert, nor do I know about the virus, more colleagues know about viruses, measures, or I don't know what it's all about. Here I would ask you to take certain contacts and measures, you as top sports official in the Republic of Croatia, you are a representative of all athletes in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you are a secretary and are expected to give solutions to sports employees. Your people are freaking out. People don't know how to behave anymore. Here, this is my question which I am personally interested in, not me, but which entire Croatian public and I would love, regardless of what the theme of the prize that you are, the committee that will award the Franjo Bučar award to all athletes, I think this was from you, in front of us parliamentary representatives for the entire Croatian public, primarily the sports public, our children, to get some information that you make from these unreasonable decisions of the Civil Protection Staff. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7397	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I'm asking you nicely to come back, we have a replica of you from your clubmate. Mr. Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7398	Thank you very much. Here, once again, colleague Bulj, I will take this legitimate and legal opportunity to speak and ask you, once again, Secretary of State, Mr. Holding to really do everything you can, this, I think there are those topics that we all share, that there are those things that are all our interests, and these are children and young and here, please do everything you can, to appeal to Minister Fuchs, let only the kids get into sports. Thank you, fellow Bull, for pointing that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7399	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7400	Well, here, I think it's a matter of consensus, that we're now asking MPs here we're not very numerous, and that we're asking the entire sports audience, educational institutions, education schools, principals, coaches. All to ask is, they expect this answer because of unreasonable and illogical decisions. One day the virus's working, the weekend doesn't work. Or I don't know, kids can train in one hall, in private and city... And he can't go to school. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, they're unreasonable decisions, so I'd ask you to come here in front of the public because people expect you to do it, and so would the MPs to ask us and you to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-24-0.u7401	Thank you very much. Since we no longer have a debate, Mr. Proposer's representative has no further explanation, I would like to conclude the debate, thank you all for all of you esteemed colleagues and colleagues and allow me to congratulate you, on behalf of you and on behalf of you, my fellow Minister of State today, and I hope that this debate will improve the position of sport in the new Ministry of Tourism and Sports. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met, and I'll see you tomorrow when we continue the session at 9:30 with a statement on the amendments. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 1922 hours.
