ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5336	Let's move on. It is now up to the House Movement Representatives Club, respected colleague Karolina Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5337	Thank you very much. Here, I'll pick it up one more time so we can all see. This is the most legislative body in Croatia. We are all invited to protect the demographic order, human rights and freedoms and to represent all Croats and Croats regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, religion, political commitment. Freedom of opinion and speech is guaranteed by the Constitution. Who takes it for granted to someone or a group to deny that freedom and in the name of what? The Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, from this place, I am ordering the most legislative authority not to bother to identify 1,033 parents, mothers and fathers who care for their children. As you have seen, I do not again raise these letters here, I have 1,033 letters with the name of mothers and fathers who are asking to stop immediately with questionable and according to many clear indications, judging by excessive coercions towards children and withholding their freedom. I am speaking on behalf of about 200,000 members of the "Parents 0 to 24" initiative, we are asking for the abolition of the National Civil Protection Staff and the numerous concerned parents who are personally reporting to me. The first requirement of concerned parents is to immediately suspend wearing masks in children. There are a number of scientific studies that clearly prove that such masks do not contribute to reducing any infection while at the same time they can cause a number of health-psychological problems in children. On their behalf, I ask the headquarters to specify precisely the scientific research which founded its decision and to answer whether they considered the opposite scientific research. So the parent's message is, don't torture our children with masks because there's no basis for that. It is not enough to call on the pious European practice because there are highly civilized and above the averagely advanced European country such as the UK or Sweden in which such restrictions are not of value not only to children but also to adults. Their other request concerns excessive use of disinfectants for which, among other things, Prof. Dr. Valery Vrček made it clear that it is a large number of hormonal toxins, I quote: “We have agreed to mass chemicalisation of the environment, people and children with hormonal toxins. In this case, it is the quadruple ammonium salts that are the regular ingredient of these biocidal products. This is pointless and dangerous because questions remain to be answered. Do we expect an increased number of allergic reactions due to the use of quantum ammonium salts in disinfectants? Do we expect an increased frequency of asthma and finally expect an increased number of superbacterials? All should bear in mind that they are criminally responsible for the violation of children's health." The third requirement concerns many studies of unnecessary and surprising testing of asymptomatic people. Explain to the public why you test people who have no symptoms of tests that scientists around the world claim are hypersensitive and generally produce new cases of positive ones. Out of the total number of all tested persons, according to your Alemka Markotic, only 5 to 10% of them have symptoms. So stop testing people who have no symptoms. Now listen to this information. By 31 August of this year, Croatia has thrown 200 million kunas into vain testing for most people without symptoms. 1,033 parents and I mother 4-faith children as 1,034 We highlight another request, perhaps a threat, do not touch children. Neither in this, nor in any other case, forget or step on the constitution of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the General Declaration on Human Rights and the Family Law guaranteed the right of parents to decide on their children. As chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, I have placed this topic as a item of the agenda of today's session of the Assembly Committee, and in the end I just want to add the children we are obliged to protect, and the voice of the parents must always be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5338	Here's my colleague Bacic, you've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5339	And I thank Mr. President. He's been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure of HS. I don't understand. Kristo speaks in his own name or in the name of the Homeland Movement when he problems the introduction and obligation to hold a mask in Croatia, the more Croatian, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia confirmed the decisions of the headquarters and, in particular, the part in which it refers to the security protection measures of masking. So here's the scandal for me that the Homeland Movement is troublesome with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5340	Comrade Kristo, please put your mask on first. Put on a mask or I'll have to shut you out of the debate. Now I'm gonna take a five-minute break, and your colleagues Kristo will be away by the end of the day from the HS session because you don't stick to what all the other MPs and MPs are holding. We've got a five-minute break. It's 9:00 P.M. We are going to the second debate of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns esteemed colleague Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5410	Dear President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are next year going to have a census in the Republic of Croatia and I'm afraid for the first time in the history of the country we will fall below 4 million inhabitants. We've been under threat of demographic disaster for the last 30 years. For the past 30 years, Croatia has had a negative demographic growth, so every year we lose one city of size, such as Makarska, Županje, we lose 15 to 20 thousand people every year only as far as natural growth is concerned. Without leaving several tens of thousands of people in the Western European country. So, for example, we're in '91. A year ago, they had 51 829 newborn children. Last year, only 36 135. Last year we had as many as 51 794 dead. This is question no. 1st in the Republic of Croatia. We're a people who don't stop, our villages turn into salasses, salses into deserts. Slavonia, once rich, proud, is now devastated and impoverished. Demographically devastationed, every other house empty, healed into weeds and dreche. No better situation in Baranja, no better situation in Dalmatia Zagora, no better situation in Lika. Croatia simply disappears and the issue of all issues, all governments must be a demographic renewal. We have already, in the expert's opinion, come to the point that we can no longer be demographically restored ourselves. And what did this government do, what did previous governments do about demographic restoration? In this government we also lost the name demographics in the resolution ministry, there was created one central office for demographics and young people who have very limited possibilities of action, financially almost nothing, and I'm afraid these negative demographic trends will continue from year to year. In fact, the state government has left under quotes demographic restoration to local self-government units, which is absurd. And then every unit of local self-government has to fight as well as knows and washes depending on its financial opportunities. For example, we have made a series of decisions in the town of Vukovar where Croatia's conservative party and Croatian sovereigns have for 7 years made a series of decisions precisely on our initiative so that we are the only city that co-finances the costs of housing to families with 3 or more children. Here's the last budget where our amendment was adopted that we doubled the one-time aid for newborn children. We are one of the few cities that finance the retraining of primary school children, which has funded notebooks and work notes since this year to primary school children. But that's not the policy of local self-government units. Demography has to be done by central government because we're going to be in a situation where we build bridges, build roads, and we're wondering who's going to drive those roads. These days, we are all discussing whether Croatia needs military planes, of course, but who will be protected by military planes, whose safety if we turn into an old country, into a country where there are no more children's wages, where from year to year the number of newborn children falls. Without a genuine demographic strategy, Croatia will disappear. And all of our stories fall into the water today and tomorrow and five years from now. Pass a little from Brod towards Ilock, at 8 p.m. in 10 villages you won't find 3 persons. It's a real picture of Croatia, we're bickering around for me irrelevant things, on the other hand, what's most important it's the survival of the Croatian nation, disappearing. And it's nobody's fault. It is no longer Brussels, neither Belgrade nor Belgrade, nor the Pest as it once was, nor Vienna, we blame ourselves, or the state authority who is unable to identify the real problems of the Republic of Croatia. And I expect that in the future, the next budget of 2021, much more funds will be invested in demographic recovery because without it all of what we're doing will no longer have any purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5455	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. As every time it is the first day of the week, we begin with the presentation of the positions of representatives' clubs and independent representatives, so today the first in line is the respected colleague Darko Klasic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists. The MP wants a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5456	Yes, violation of the Rules of Procedure. 14. which refers to the Constitution and the violation of the Constitution in Article 14. 112, which reads: "The government is responsible for the Croatian Parliament". President of the Parliament, therefore, on Friday at a public session of the Parliament in front of the entire Croatian nation, you said that you were powerless before the Croatian government if you do not answer our parliamentary questions. That's how you confirmed the violation of the government's trinity. On behalf of the Homeland Movement Club... /
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5457	... /The Incursion President: Here are colleagues Kristo Vidovic, you get a warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5458	I am asking for an end to the meeting of the Croatian Parliament until the Government responds... /Conversation off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5459	Please sit down. This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, let's study the Rules of Procedure. Have a seat. You get a second warning now, and if you're going to get a third, I'm going to take away your right of speech today. This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please choose to use the means and instruments that exist in the Rules of Procedure for the presentation of such views. So there's a way to say it, but not like you just did it. So, you got two warnings. I invite you not to do what you're doing now because I will be forced to give you a third warning. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What can I explain?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5461	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5462	So the Rules of Procedure are as clear as the laws. What would you like me to interpret?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5463	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5464	No, you can't get any more, go ahead if you want to complain to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5465	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5466	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5467	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5468	No, on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, I'm sending in a rush and I'm doing it. The government is answering the questions of MPs and advocates with the dynamics she believes is correct on her part and answers a large number of questions, some questions being late. When I'm late, I send an ambulance. What would you like? Where did I hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5469	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5470	So, colleagues Kristo, we can run this controversy in a different way, and not like this here under the batting rod of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5471	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5472	No, it's not a question of answer, it's certainly not a question of respecting the Constitution and the law that's settled as it says in the acts, I stick to these acts, and there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. So we can be satisfied or not satisfied with the dynamics that the government is responding to, but this is not about breaking the Rules of Procedure. So, you find a way to articulate your views, but not through the breach of the Rules of Procedure because it's not the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5473	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5474	I did not say that I was powerless before the Croatian government, but there are acts that oblige me to act, and I act according to these acts. However, if the government does not answer the question, there is no instrument that I can force the government to do so. It is so to you and I no longer want to talk to you in this way, this is neither now nor the time nor place, we can discuss it under other instruments of the Rules of Procedure. So very simple. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5475	Thank you very much. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd just like to fill you in on a request, that's all. I'm going to have the DORH report arrive here in the Parliament. Do we see that daily measures are being made? the information and measures come out because the nation is interested, and the institutions are... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5476	Comrade Bulj, please break the Rules of Procedure again because you have not explained for what reason you are looking for a word. Now begins a free speech in which every representative and representative on behalf of his club can make a stand as could colleague Vidović Kristo about this problem, so you could also say in those five minutes what is bothering you and if those five minutes are not enough then I don't understand why we have them at all. So now we're going, start of the week and we're starting with five minutes of club debates it's called free speech in which you can also talk about the topics that you're now starting to talk about. But what you're doing for it right now, there's no business basis. So you have five minutes of speech to say it. You're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're not looking for anything and you're starting to say what you have the right to speak from this pay phone right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5477	Don't torture me, torture the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5478	Comrade Bulj, please sit down, please talk about it five minutes ahead of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5479	The institutions don't work, so if you can get the DORH report here to come because you see that the measures break through every little bit and that leaks the information from the DORH as on the tape. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5480	Comrade Bulj, please sit down. My colleagues and colleagues, all the problems that exist in the Croatian society, which you want to talk about, you can talk about now for the next five minutes and please stick to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5481	Thank you, Mr. President. Here on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, I'm looking for a half-hour break for the next reason. First, what colleague Vidovic Kristo presented, we consider a very sensitive issue and cannot just get over it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5482	I have to stop you right now, my colleague, because the break is sought by certain points, related to the item of the agenda under discussion, for a break. So, you're now looking for a break out of the agenda for something that has nothing to do with the agenda point. ... So there are simple rules of play, I didn't come up with them, it was the decision of the Croatian Parliament [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm asking you first not to yell out of the bench. [[/Intruder: But it's connected to the HS session. So it's connected to every item of the agenda.]] What you're doing right now is creating chaos. I'm about for you to say whatever you want. But within the forms that exist in HS. [[Intruder: I am creating chaos.]] So no one takes away your right to speak and right, whatever you want, say in these five minutes. But let's stick to the rules of the game. That's all I ask. Don't tell me to take away your word, not to allow anything, I'm giving you everything, but within the framework of what you have In the framework of instruments that exist in the Rules of Procedure. [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5483	Well, surely the chaos that is created in the country does not come from our side but from the other side of Mark's square, so, we have a condition as it is, I've been looking for a break, if that's...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5484	You can't, it's not the rule of the Rules of Procedure simply. Here you go, it's a five-minute free debate, you say whatever you want. First up is counterpart Darko Klasic on behalf of the HSLS and reformers' club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5485	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Good morning, everyone. First of all, I'm going to the other topic, but perhaps equally important, especially for the citizens of this country. This is the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 10 March of this year, where the Court of Justice has decided on the abolition of the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. On the basis of this decision of the Constitutional Court, the abolished part of the law, the way to discriminate and discredit students of professional and specialist studies compared to those of the university study. The argument of this court decision is completely separate from life's reality and threatens to lead to serious problems for students of vocational studies at higher education institutions, but also for legislators, which we find inadmissible both in contrast with EU policies and practices and the European Qualifications Framework. In most EU countries, such a scenario is absolutely impossible, and the EU recommends the application of the European Qualifications Framework. If the constitutional decision is applied retroactively, that is not, if these amendments are adopted and the law is completed by 31 December of this year, with the exception of currently 55,000 students of professional studies, another 50,000 are those who have completed those studies and will be left without legal qualifications, i.e. in employment they will have the last qualification prescribed by law, which is secondary education. As a result, there may be major problems in the functioning of different state systems, if there are problems related to their smooth functioning. As an example, you can only be listed by the High School of Police or the School of Health, where you are educated for example, nurses or other medical professions or police officials, who... were placed in an independent position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can you imagine what would happen if we needed the ability to lose our qualifications, or to reduce their qualifications? This raises their qualifications for the jobs they are currently performing, and we all know that there is a large deficit in those services. There may be a collapse of certain parts... if literally this decision is to apply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a serious problem and the result of poor communication between the university and the ministry in the last government meeting, i.e. The forest in communication between the rector Boras and the former minister of Mrs. You're a savage. As liberals, we are opposed to the existing legal vacuum, and therefore we insist on removing it, as we advocate the rapid adoption of European standards, and strongly condemning the opposite and regressive trends of distance from the European standard, as is the case with regard to this problem. In this case, the existing legal situation also endangers the achievement of the fundamental principles of EU functioning and actions such as cross-border mobility, i.e. freedom of movement in education where there are equal and uniform standards that oppose individual professions. We believe that the existence of stable laws is an important guarantee of personal freedoms because every law aims to achieve legal certainty, in order to ensure the possibility and perspective of citizens. In connection with this statement, I have also submitted a parliamentary question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I expect an adequately quick answer, because our deadlines are running out, and I will remind you that on 31.12, the deadline is the last time this law is to be agreed upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5507	And we're going to the 11th debate. For now, the last reported, respected colleague Dalia Oreskovic on behalf of the Party's Representatives Club with a name, Smart and GLAS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5508	The Honorable President of HS, fellow MPs and MPs. I don't think today's the other day for a structured five-minute speech. It seems to me that it is high time for the Croatian Parliament to ask itself what should be our priority at this time and what is truly crucial and important for the further work of this body. Under the Constitution, HS oversees the work of the Government and other public officials who are responsible to the HS in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I invite you all, as representatives of the ruling and thus representatives of the opposition of all world-famous colors and clubs, to take a sincere look at ourselves in the eyes and ask whether the Croatian Parliament in this meeting is truly capable of performing its role. We adopted a government programme called Safe Croatia, if we continue like this, Croatia will be as safe as it was a credible government in the previous meeting. That is what the affairs that are revealed day and day testify to and the end cannot be seen. For Croatian citizens, Croatia is not safe, there is no security in education because there is no certainty that they will be able to work at the right workplace at the end without a party card having an advantage. Croatian citizens are not even sure about getting jobs because always some corrupt affair compared to those who have qualifications is given priority. Croatian citizens are not even sure about their health services because they are shared on those who are important and ordinary citizens who are unable to obtain for what they were in the health system and were paying for the funds. The only sure thing in Croatia and that's safe from every threat is corruption. A few MPs before me talked about Croatia's breakup and the reasons for the eviction. Well, corruption is the reason. I don't know how many times I've pointed out that I've prepared a strategy to curb corruption, and I'm particularly proud of it in a professional way. However, to fight corruption is really not a key strategy, nor are changes and additions to the laws now announced by the government. It's a key political will. Given the statements of the President of the State that we heard yesterday, which seriously question the constitutionality and legality of the work of a whole series of state bodies including the Government, Prime Minister, Resort Minister, USKOK, DORH, and even representatives of the judicial authority, it is high time that the Croatian Parliament urgently took action today through its respective committees or to openly acknowledge that the fight against the will to fight corruption simply does not exist. I call on HS to establish and examine, through the Justice Committee, whether there is any truth in the allegations we could have heard yesterday. I call on the Legislative Committee to determine the shortcomings in the legislative framework, I call on the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy to determine how security services should actually act. Because, according to what we heard yesterday, it is difficult to imagine that SOA and other similar bodies can carry out their task in accordance with the Constitution and the law, if the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister in one day and the same day give a diametric opposite view of what the Prime Minister needed, could or should have known about the investigations in JANAF. Does this mean that the work of security services is managed in the way that those two masters in A do is a cartoon? Will the Croatian Parliament continue to suffer such a situation? So, I call on HS to take over those roles that the Constitution has drawn upon him or simply we can admit that we have become guardians of the masters of illusion, and sooner or later, our citizens will realize that the one who is at the top of the food chain is the one who holds all the strings in his hands the greatest illusionist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5509	Thank you to all who participated in the free speech in the debates of clubs and independent representatives. Let's move on. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5544	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here speaking from this booth should stand behind every spoken word in this honorable House. I mean, I say them, I stand behind them, but this isn't my private parlage because I still represent some people, those who chose me, the pensioners I wear in the name of the party I represent and the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. These people have been texting me and calling me for months to do the job, making their proposals, asking questions, sharing experiences, but also the fears. So I decided to just convey their thoughts and thus be their voice in the right sense of the word. All requests and calls are easy to split into two groups. First group, you need to wipe out your debts. This, of course, in debt religious relations is not considered for a number of reasons, but today I am here to convey the attitude of people who feel that some debts should be forgotten. Perhaps we should communicate better with them why it is impossible. Also among these people is the most people who have an attitude, I want to pay back the debt, but as 200 grew to 1200. Is there any more room to cut the costs of the procedure? There is, I'm sure there is, and you all know it well, and that's the kind of law we have to pass. The second attitude that predominates, give us a rite of payment, an option that even mentioned itself as a real solution that would satisfy both sides in a religious debt relationship, but it turns out that the religious side still cannot agree to another postponement of the unsustainable. For executives and judges, this measurement moratorium is not an acceptable solution. For the first time, a three-month moratorium was introduced on April 17th, and after its end in July, the government decided to extend it for another three months. The delay in the implementation in the first quarter was introduced for a total of a million 89,620 payment bases, and were applied to 234,587 citizens and 10,269 natural persons performing registered activity and subsequently extended. Moratories have been introduced due to the special circumstances caused by the headquarters measures to give citizens who have reduced incomes or threatened jobs the necessary financial rest. The moratorium included pensioners who had been breathing for a long time, for several months lived a man worthy of life and know it is very difficult for them to return to that misery from before. I must say that when a social measure is planned or saved by making it easier, suddenly groups that you cannot otherwise see together at the table are in the same boat, benevolent and barely standing, full and hungry, rich and poor, as if the poor are not hard enough in life. They are still attached and loaded with people whose existence is not compromised, but they are able to get some relief irresistible. So that top of the debt pyramid, which on average owes more than 4 million kuna, I'm excluding from what I'm about to say about the executions. I want the problem in front of HSU to be seen as a whole, but also in depth, to enter into the structure of the debt, as many people as it owes to, and that possible social measures now and always be designed to help the exclusively existentially endangered. Six months behind us is a long time. People die, instead of them, there's one pension, the citizens are out of work, they're paying other people's bills, they're existentially endangered people, but they're threatened by entire families, and they're the ones they need to protect. Not by law but by the constitutional principles of the social state and the state of social justice in the foundations of which life is worthy of man. I thank all people of goodwill who address me with their problems so that they can understand how they live and can be properly represented by these speakers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5568	The ninth debate of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and esteemed counterpart Nino Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5569	The Honorable President of the Assembly, fellow Members and fellow MPs, last in a series of affairs of the ruling who, after only a few weeks of working in this assembly, left us without three colleagues, who were sitting with us in the assembly yesterday, and now in custody she has thrown us into the shadow of all other topics this week. For some topics, it is not a pity, but there is a theme that is at our heart and that I appeal to her at least during these free speeches that will be dedicated to her we open our ears, minds and hearts. The national day of the fight against violence against women we marked yesterday was established in memory of a terrible crime that took place on 22 September 1990 at the Zagreb Municipal Civil Court when a husband killed his wife and judge and lawyer on a divorce case, and he severely wounded a notifier. We're talking about three taken lives, one severely endangered and four families forever unhappy. Colloquial events like this can often be said to be tragic, which is deeply wrong, it is not a tragic event because with tragedy it shares only an unfortunate end. In fact, the tragedy also carries something sublime, cathartic, and in such actions there is nothing sublime but brutal, cruel, inhuman. To those who have at least witnessed to him indirectly, and there is no person in Croatia who has not heard of this crime left no feeling of purification but astonishment, nausea and pain. In this huge evil that happened 21 years ago, the only resulting little drop is that it encouraged the Assembly to declare September 22nd the National Day against Violence against Women, so all together it encourages us 21 years later to take on all the other things that we do and which make us stop and commit ourselves to this important topic. 21 years and 1 day ago in the Zagreb court, the most serious crime of this kind took place against women, but killing both literally and delayed what we call killing in the notion of killing souls and hearts, beating up, humiliating women continues in cases that will never come to the headlines, eventually if they are reported in statistics, and statistics say the following. This year, in the first eight months, we heard 8 women killed, recorded in 4.116 cases of violence against women, 849 women victims of domestic violence. Corruptio Optimi Pessima says a deep Latin saying when what else is best broken becomes the worst of all. A family that is the foundation of society and civilization, a warm home, a nest, comfort, a source of strength, pleasure and happiness, a place where we rest and hide when it becomes a source of accident, violence, humiliation, turns into hell. Some of our fellow citizens, whose team is dedicated to our thoughts and today suffers in the homes that have melted their nests, and have defrocked themselves into dungeons and torture grounds, where instead of hugs, slaps, instead of compliments of swearing, instead of understanding humiliation, instead of sharing good economic addiction, instead of the joy of parenting emotionally and any other blackmail to children. Close human relationships between two free human individuals such as love and marriage are complex, occasionally full of market, and conflict, we all know that and it's all human and normal and it concerns human privacy and family intimacy. But in situations where you cross the line of respect for the integrity of another person, and that relationship goes into violence, that concerns all of us as a civilized and solidarity society that must not leave victims to their fate, and there must be zero tolerance and that is not flossula. We have different contexts of anthropological, cultural, psychological, sociological and other explanations and theories when we talk about all other days of the year. On the occasion of the National Day of Combating Violence against Women, there is no room for anything but, no way, from where or what evil is, just one question, what can we do to protect women from violence? The responsibility of our parliamentary deputies is much greater than that of other citizens because we are legislators. The answer for me and my colleagues at the Most Club is to sharpen the punishment for the bullys. All the respect for education, the development of awareness of non-violence, communication, the only thing we feel secure that it will work is the stricter punishment of the violent and the greater support of the victims. Is it the transition to dragon mode if we ask the question, how is it that only a small part of the condemning verdicts for violence against women in the family end with unconditional penalties, while in most cases, probations are imposed in the range of 6 to 12 months? The consciousness we want to inspire, and with this sentence I end up, [[Intruder: Thank you]] to cherish by marking this day i.e. yesterday [[Intruder: Thank you]] And I hope by the unity that we can achieve around it is zero tolerance to violence. [[Intruder: Thank you colleague Rasdic]] but also the fight against routines on occasions like this. [[Thank you very much.]] Marking must not go to...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5570	Dear Mr. Rasdic, thank you very much, time has passed long ago. I'm begging you, we've got five minutes and we're gonna stick with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5571	Excuse me... Excuse me. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5572	It's all right. Let's move on, now it's the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected colleague Rada Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5614	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. As my colleague said, yesterday was National Day Against Violence Against Women. Just one fact, from 2016 to '18. 46 women were killed, 39 of them by their closest family members. Eight more women have been killed in the last eight months alone. Please, on this occasion in which we are able to stand up in honor of those who died for freedom, who died for fighting for a better Croatia, please let us rise and honor all those women who could not achieve their lives in full potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5615	Comrade Boric, just, just a little please, we could have arranged this. So, calling for a minute of silence works chairmanship at HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5616	I'm sorry, I'm sorry you didn't see that coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5617	We could have arranged that. Now you bring me and the MPs into a rather awkward situation because every time someone dies or every time we have a similar situation, then the MPs will come by and ask us to get up for someone, which I think, it's okay to get up and mark it, but I think it'd be okay to make a deal about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5618	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I wanted to sacrifice my minute, but I believe that since we've agreed as women that all clubs today, and I think it's a good thing, to make one subject, regardless of what we're not here or the homogeneous body, that one topic could unite us all, so I hope we'll do it another time. But, well, I would like to say something that really concerns us today, because although the Constitutional Court has yet in 2017 made a decision that obliges the Assembly to, within the period of 2nd year, pass a modern bill on health measures to exercise the right to freedom to decide on the birth of children. As we know, not only is the deadline not respected, what really worries, is that the Minister of Health, Mr. Willy Beros, a few days ago prejudged what that law might look like. According to him, in what the law should look like, there is not a word about regulation calling for conscience, which unfortunately from what the reports of different women's associations and women's networks of Croatia, at the moment, 60% of gynecologists and gynecologists are calling for an appeal of conscience. All it has to do is compare with our neighbouring country, and Mr Beroš said that there, the commission will deal with comparisons with EU practice, so from the first EU practice in the neighbourhood, conscience callers in Slovenia are only 3%. I wonder if these people have less conscience or more concerns about women's rights to reproductive health. Also, what concerns us at this point, so either we get a new and modern law that will also talk about availability, so, women, not only access to surgical termination of unwanted pregnancy, but whether we can also be modern and deal with how less traumatic women would experience this experience, which is a medical approach to stopping pregnancy. If availability were equally important, I would say class approach, it is not the eighth time where it continues, Mr. Willi Beroš believes that abortion at the request of women should continue to be paid, where in this country, it is the most expensive in Dubrovnik, in some cities it is not at all, in some hospitals it is not performed, so it is women and the additional cost or going to neighbouring countries where these procedures are cheaper. So what we're interested in is how it's possible that, that there's such an unregulated payment ratio and we think that the right to abortion is one of the rights that women can exercise and according to the way it stands. 35 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Art. 35 8 The European Court of Human Rights, which guarantees protection of private and family life, which includes autonomy, physical and moral integrity. And here we come to the most speculative part of the new law's proposal, as at least he suggested it to us, in his interview, the minister, which is counseling for women. The advice for women we don't know the criteria for who would advise women, and on the other hand, the autonomy of decision-making is being violated because here it's supposed that women would probably, we might as well take away then and business skills, be treated as someone who doesn't know how to decide, not just about their own body, but also about their lives. The decisions women make regarding reproductive and sexual rights are not just these decisions. They're decisions on respecting women's autonomy in decision-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5619	I would like to thank my colleague, Boric, and once again, I would like to ask you, therefore, that in situations like this, before a representative or a representative suggests that we agree between ourselves and I agree that with a minute of silence and honor to all those women who have been killed by domestic violence, so I invite you to do so now. - A moment of silence - May eternal praise be to them and glory to them. Let's move on, now it's up to counterpart Nada Murganic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5711	I would like to thank the esteemed president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Yeah, we'll talk about this subject, this negative social phenomenon, on behalf of the club. And what we have already said in advance, it is the fact that violence is present in all environments and in all countries. However, we are only different by how individual societies and states are willing to protect their citizens, their human rights and freedoms, to protect those who are the most vulnerable, children, elderly people, people with disabilities, to protect their families. The government of the Republic of Croatia and HDZ is determined to fight violence against women, from domestic violence and in all forms of violence at all. On the day, National Day against Violence 22.9.2017. A national strategy against domestic violence in the family has been adopted in the government, and in the following month, the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family. And these documents have been drawn up by a series of measures, and mechanisms have been launched to improve the situation in society in the fight against violence. The legislation is very significant and very often we talk about how laws are not implemented and how we lack laws. Last year, all forms of violence and sexual violence and rape were changed in that direction. It is very important to prosecute the perpetrator with the help of the MUP, as well as the court because righteous penalties are also punishment, but they are also prevention. But it also takes psychological treatment for the perpetrator not to commit relapse and that's prevention. It is extremely important to help victims, to separate the victims, to strengthen them, so we have 19 autonomous houses co-financed or financed from the state budget, from European funds, and because of the existence of these autonomous houses special thanks to civil society organisations that are government partners in the care of women. SOS phones are secured, instructions and addresses are provided where and how to seek help. The institutions and institutions are strengthened through staff education, inter-resorship cooperation is important because one carrier, one entity is not enough and therefore we have formed national teams, county teams to act positively in all directions. And what is certainly most important, which is education and education, prevention in the sense that from the earliest days we raise our young people to have zero tolerance for violence, that any of their conflicts do not solve any form of violence, pushing, verbally, fighting, tearing and anything else, that young people recognize in time the violent, to spread awareness of how much violence is the problem and how harmful it is, and what we find to be a few times petty or harmless. We certainly need support in this, and we also have support for media that are aware of this fight and this negative phenomenon, but certainly work and influence through social networks. What we've been told very often, so much of what you've reportedly done, repeats, it's supposed to tell us, but these five minutes I've already brought out what's been done 5 years ago, but the results aren't visible. Of course, and this is because it is a lasting and long-term process in which all factors should act in due time, but also, all committed to be directed towards this goal, which is to reduce, i.e. completely eliminate violent behavior from all our pores of society. So, lastly, I'm going to say that there is a strong political will to combat violence from this government and HDZ, but appeal to the victims, come in, ask for help on time, as soon as you see violent behavior, we have instruments and we have institutions and institutions to help.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5755	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, it is now up to the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5756	I thank the Honorable President of the Assembly. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS, on whose behalf I will speak today, joins the initiative of the Committee on Gender Equality to mark the National Day against Violence against Women in this way. The intention is to present and update this topic through this form of public appearance in the assembly. So yesterday, 22.9., as I said, the National Day Against Violence Against Women was marked. It's the day we remember the tragedy that happened in '99. It is also a day of memory of all women who are victims of violence, but also of the day when we are fighting for reproductive rights, against inequality in the labour market, against sexism that is everyday and labelling women in the public sphere. And on that very day, but not only that, but each of the following needs to be spoken for the awareness and sensitization of the public that violence is not happening to someone else, but that it is present in our immediate vicinity, but that it often turns away from that phenomenon. There are rare cases that apply and very large to us unknown, but the suggesting number speaks of how many women are actually willing to suffer. Violence against women is a monster that surrounds us and is very present, whether violence of mental, physical or economic nature affects women regardless of the social status, years of life or the degree of education and leaves lasting consequences to the psychological and physical nature because they mainly come from those they believe, from those they love. And after the suffering and hiding of the bully, we come up with tragic consequences of statistics that are more than dark. So in the first eight months of 2020, 8 women were killed, so each month one life was extinguished because the victim suffered violence in four walls and did not dare report. They suffered thinking that maybe they were guilty of being insecure loved ones, so he drinks, he's always angry, and he makes noises and sometimes he hits them. They hoped it would be better, and eventually they felt that they needed to keep that secret because they were burdened with prejudice as to what the people would say. It is known that one of the main obstacles to solving the problem of violence against women is exactly how to encourage women to report violence and expose a bully. It is mainly because they suffer from fear of perpetrators, mistrust in competent institutions, guilt, environmental pressure, Stigma and others. And it must not be forgotten that this is a dark number that is actually ten times larger, which means that one application against a bully must be 10 more women silent and suffering. It is therefore important to warn how unacceptable violence, any kind, is. It is therefore important that these women I spoke of did not become numbers in the dark statistics that we turn to thinking about how young or old they were and how much they actually suffered to be beaten after all. And finally, the most important thing is to warn of the most dangerous, which is the intergenerational transmission of violent behavior that is passed down from knee to knee, where entire families live in violence for generations, where women, mothers, sisters, suffer from bullys, and the child sees it all. As we know, he learns by model, adopts negative patterns of behavior by treating them as normal, and instead of protecting themselves, they become violent and cowardly because every bully is actually a coward. And a coward beating a woman, a coward speaking in a sexist dictionary, insulting them and labeling women, restricting women who want to freely decide everything about their bodies and their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5774	Let's move on, there's now a respected colleague, Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj, on behalf of the HNS's Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5775	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In memory of 3 women killed during a divorce case at the municipal court on 22 September 1999 in Croatia, the National Day against Violence Against Women has been marked since that date. In 2019 13 women were killed, 5 more than in 2018. In the first 8 months of this year of 8 women killed, 7 of the 8 victims killed, 7 women were women. Despite a satisfactory legislative framework, shelters for victims of violence are crowded. The trombone of the system causes mistrust and abandonment of the victim from seeking the help of the institutions, as well as of society. Although statistics show a total decline in the number of cases of domestic violence, it concerns the trend of brutalisation of the same. Victims of violence are not faceless characters of black chronicles. These are our neighbors, friends, girls, girls, women, and as long as one of them suffers violence, insults and threats, we cannot and must not remain silent. Violence against women does not know national, cultural or status differences. What happens in the house, if on the streets and as such in the way of our society's progress towards equality, peace and human rights for all, is as long as we live in a society that tolerates killing, brutal beating, demeaning and insulting women, in a society where a woman is underpaid, where we aimly place ourselves on the margins of political and social life, where she has to be reminded daily of her role and equality, we cannot say that we are moving forward. So yesterday, anyway, and like every other day, the opportunity to speak out again loudly about the problem of violence against women and send a clear message of zero tolerance to every form of violent behavior. Violence against women and families, as well as any other obligation of all of us, is to continuously encourage mutual cooperation in the repression and sanctioning of violence, not to close our eyes and not to keep quiet on various forms of violent behavior, but to ensure the support and protection of victims and, together with education and prevention, build an open and tolerant society in which human rights and diversity are respected in which women will feel secure and respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5781	8th Club is SDP's club and respected colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u5782	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I remember I can't stand soup anymore because we were sitting at the table until we ate it even if it was dark, and I remember yelling and yelling, and I remember my mom pushing paper in her mouth, and I remember a wild look when his hands were around her neck. During the evening, the laundromat abused his wife mentally, and then he leaned upon her and hit her head and body until she collapsed and was half consciously lying on the floor. She spent almost two hours there, and only when she noticed that she was breathing rustly and difficultly, around midnight, the Perajica called for an ambulance. The Supreme Court reduced the sentence to the guy who touched his eight-year-old daughter, took pictures of naked and sent those photos around. A man for six months in prison for having sex with a child, a girl who remained pregnant for 14 years took her on abortion, repeatedly hit the girl with a fist to the head as if she had expired a traffic permit, seven young men in a year repeatedly raped a 15-year-old girl in Zadar, blackmailed her with shots, a cop who sexually harassed a young colleague all night long because he committed only once the victim had to pay the costs of the procedure, a teacher in high school hugged and touched a student clapped on her buttocks, and he was freed, a Požeko-Slavon Mayor Alojz Tomašević, who spoke to his wife that she was a crazy cow, a fool, a fool and physically harassed her, grabbed her hands by the neck and squeezed her and said that he would kill her, stab her, stabbed and dismembered her, had no reason to be re-elected. These are all some of the inscriptions in Croatian media, brutally how brutal and Croatian reality is. Violence is everywhere around us, violence is experienced by women of all ages, all occupations regardless of what part of Croatia they live in. Women who have been or are still exposed to violence there are also in this Croatian Assembly. And they could probably say something about it today in front of this, for this pay phone, but maybe they're not ready enough yet, and they're not ready enough because the state doesn't trust them. They feel very often betrayed, unsupported, forgotten, neglected. And that's why it's the responsibility of a colleague and a colleague on all of us because violence isn't a private problem that needs to be kept in four walls, and then cover it up afterwards. Violence is a social problem, and we as advocates and representatives of Croatian citizens must do everything possible to suppress the state daily, question and force it not to happen in the new Penal Code to increase the penalties of laws for rapists, rapists, murderers, but unfortunately, in 2020, the courts continue to pursue the trend of the lowest sentences, with a wave of suspended sentences from 6 to 12 months in prison. We must do everything to make sure never again that a woman with the failure of Croatian institutions remains murdered, not only beaten, but also killed because it is a 3.3 degree. We must do everything possible to put all the mechanisms at our disposal in the fight against violence against women, which is education, prevention and sanctions. Some of the mechanisms we have one of these and so on. The Istanbul Convention or the Council of Europe Convention on combating and combating violence against women and domestic violence. And we have to make all our colleagues and colleagues so by the end of 2020 no county in Croatia will be without a women's shelter, and now there are five. We have to do everything we can to make sure that no county in Croatia is there, without a women's counseling center, and there are many in Croatia today. We have to do everything we have to do, I know we can't involve this in the fate of power, but it really doesn't come to these ridiculous judgments, and then the Supreme Court and these lowest judgments are actually reducing and lowering. We must do everything in Croatia to conquer the society of tolerance, the society of non-violence and society that will sanction violent, rapists and murderers because the minimum that every human being deserves, and women are just that they have the right to a dignified life, a life without beatings for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6766	Now we're going to move to agenda points. First today: - Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2020; The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article. 109. Budget law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Agriculture. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Honorable Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6767	I'm asking for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6768	My colleague Oreshkovic. Well, there are rules. ... So imagine that everyone sitting here is reacting that way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So raise your hand and I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6769	Well, you didn't see me, I raised my hand, I'm asking for a word. ..
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6770	. .../ Intruder President: About what?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6771	... I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6772	.../ You're looking for a break, then you can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6773	Thank you. So, I'm looking for a break in terms of the article. 213th century 2. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Namely, reports on the implementation of the state budget may establish
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6774	Conditions [[Intruder President: counterpart Oreshkovic.]] [[Intruder President: Do you want to be removed from the assembly?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6775	No, I want to explain why I'm looking for a break. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6776	. .../ No, you don't have a mask.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6777	Yeah, I'm sorry. Excuse me. Therefore, when discussing the implementation of the state budget, the conditions and criteria for financing the tasks of the national authorities can be established. Given the very difficult accusations brought yesterday by the president of the country, which seriously question the constitutionality and legality of a whole series of state bodies, further consultations are needed at the club to know how we will continue to discuss what the applicant is putting on the agenda for us today. I am expressing particular concern regarding the work of the Security Intelligence Agency. According to the law, it is precisely the body's duty to establish and prevent organised economic crime as well as leaks of information from competent state authorities. From what we heard yesterday, it is seriously questionable whether state bodies can carry out their tasks...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6778	My colleague Oreshkovic, I have to stop this right now, has nothing to do with what you're talking about right now. Please stick to the explanation that is related to the agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6779	The implementation of the state budget has its own, Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Article 213(2). Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6780	Okay. Thank you. Comrade Bačić, you've reached out to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6781	Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break in order to refer once again to the half-year report on the state budget for this year, and to make clear everything that the Government has done to ensure that during this crown of crisis, it manages to preserve the liquidity of Croatian entrepreneurs and contribute to the preservation of the health of Croatian citizens. But what further prompted me to ask for a break is Ms. Oreshkovic's earlier presentation, as well as her current exposure in which she joins the position of the president of the Republic of Croatia to also accuse the Prime Minister and the Government of not being informed of the course of the secret procedure conducted by the investigating bodies in the Republic of Croatia. Mrs. Oreshkovic, instead of stopping here, condemn on behalf of her club the position of the president of the Republic of Croatia in which he calls the government who is the executive body because it does not interfere in the work of the judicial authority, you are trying here to trouble the work of those who work in accordance with the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia. That I heard from someone else, but when I hear it from the former president of the Committee of Conflict of Interest, it's incomprehensible and scandalous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6782	Comrade Bačić, you are now doing the same as your colleague Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6783	But here I am going back to what I originally asked for a break on behalf of the MPs' club as I supported, supported once again the government's work first of all, the way the government manages this crisis, and the confirmation is the latest credit rating agency that has confirmed the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia in these very challenging times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6784	Please stick to the subject, all those who speak and ask for a break. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6785	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MOST Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes per item of the agenda report for the first half of 2019, and I have to say here regardless, and we can't just pull out on the crown crisis, the crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies so it's obvious that we are not self-sufficient and now that we see that we are not self-sufficient, when we have the most resources and all the most incentives we have in the Republic of Croatia for agriculture 3 billion EUR we import means of food products, never again, it grows rapidly, while our farmers are plowing their agricultural products. So literally, we have 800,000 of this 800 million acres of uninhabited land, which means at this point we have one huge problem of unsustainable and self-sustainableness. To shut us down for seven days, seven days to keep our border closed, we wouldn't be self-sufficient. As for the budget itself and the extra budget revenues and the realization is zero, I can say for the Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia's realization is zero. All the projects announced are zero in the first half of the year from infrastructure roads example Kukuzovac – Križice, the union of Sinj on the highway that has been promised for years is absolutely zero. That's how it is, for example. and Drniš, Knina, the entire Dalmatian Zagora and Dalmatia, regardless of what you had 2.5 years ago a cabinet meeting in Split where you promised 2 billion kuna projects. So far it's zero. As for not only that, but here's the irrigation, also zero, for example. The blue field, Peter's field, the property field, zero. So in 2019 with regard to infrastructure and the Dalmatian Zagora and Dalmatia and like in implementation is zero, zero, I repeat to you that you hear the good gentlemen representatives from those parts, zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6786	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. Is there any other club coming up for a break? If not, we'll continue to work at 11 o'clock sharp. It's 10:00.49.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6787	Good afternoon, everyone. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 11:00 A.M.]] Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is Minister Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6788	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, as usual, and in accordance with the budget law, we are submitting this report for the first 6 months, and I also believe during your replicas, the debate on behalf of clubs, individually that we need to extend the debate not only to the first 6 months but also to the current moments and as to the budget as well as some projections for the next. So, as regards what we are under the obligation of law for the first 6 months, a report to the Croatian Parliament has been submitted in accordance with all the items, or all the parts required, starting with macroeconomic indicators. What may be most important is the achievement of certain categories of GDP and individual components. Overall, our economy in the first 6 months well knows that GDP recorded a decline in the first 6 months of 7.8%, so we still had a slight growth of about 0.4% in the first quarter, but then in the second quarter, the decline was 15%, which we know very well, the largest three-month decline ever recorded in national account statistics since it was being monitored. Inflation in the first half is 0.5%, when we look at the production side of GDP we see different performances, so industrial production decreases from 6.4%, trade to little 6.6%, while, for example, the index of construction works has recorded an increase of 3.1% in the first half of 2020. It's really one of the few indicators that have a positive sign in these very first six months. The night tourists decrease by 77%, although we know very well that this way we enter the peak of the season, but still the 5th and 6th months have a certain significance. As for the revenue side of the budget, the total revenues of the state budget in the first half were reached at HRK 60.4 billion, down 7.2%. However, in these circumstances, mainly covid should be observed to place a slightly higher focus on the achievement and execution of tax revenues, which in the first half recorded a decrease of 13.6% compared to the same period of the previous year amounted to 32 billion kuna. In turn, the profit tax in the first half of the year 4.2 billion kuna or 20.9% reduction with the fact that we have to mention in the profit tax that and with regard to the government's measures to postpone or write down tax claims, and thus the shift of the obligation to submit annual financial reports and to account for profit taxes, has affected the fact that this annual account is practically not in the first half of the year but in the second half. Of course, by the end of the year, we'll see the execution of the profit tax. VAT 20.5 billion kuna or a drop of 12.6%, special taxes and excise duties of 6.5 billion kuna or 11.3% reduction, contributes to 10.4 billion kuna or 12.2% reduction. As for the expenditure side of the budget, it was made in the amount of 77.1 billion kuna and when we look at its structure and, of course, some of its components, it is certain that in the first half, we have received current expenditures, current expenditures such as pensions, pension incomes, salaries and other expenditures for the first half is a characteristic fact that already in the first half, expenditures have been increased by 10.1 billion kuna, mostly due to measures to preserve jobs in the economy, so for measures concerning the payment of parts of the salaries to employers and entrepreneurs to preserve jobs, so for employees. You remember yourself was originally 3,250, and then 4,000 kuna with all public taxes in terms of taxes and contributions. In total, 6.7 billion kuna has been paid, then there is an increase in staff expenditure as much as possible prior to the agreed increase in some other transfers from last year 1.2 billion kuna and a pension of around 740 million kuna. When we look at the overall picture of expenditure and face and face revenues, in the first half of this year, a budget deficit of 16.7 billion kuna or 4.6% of the estimated GDP has been achieved. When we add to this the results of out-of- budget users who achieved a deficit of 844 million kuna or 0.2% of GDP and the result of units of local and regional (regional) self-government less than 0.1% and when we consolidate all of this together, the budget consolidated by the general government according to the national methodology in the mid-term budget achieved a deficit of 17.9 billion kuna or 4.9% of the estimated GDP. As for the achievement of the first term, I will remind you only a little bit of the beginning of the pandemic crisis, then at that time Croatia was still in the first half of the EU Council Presidency and of our initiative, we call our country's insistence on the proposal, the European Commission has also supported all institutions, that a temporary suspension of fiscal rules has been brought in, that for this year and until further a focus will not be placed on the achievement of the budget in terms of deficits, surpluses, public debt rather than that the focus is primarily on preserving jobs. In these circumstances, and of course related and unrelated to that, I think that we all remember very well, it was among other things and the debate in HS on individual measures, and especially when we came with the budget rebalance for this year it was a question of how to secure liquidity, so the bill of financing the state budget itself that will present on its back in fact all these challenges we are talking about. I'm just going to remind you, the original funding plan for this year, so we're talking about the plan that was adopted at the end of last year, the budget adopted by HS last year, of course when we haven't had any knowledge yet, or the thinking that a covid as such might occur, the financing bill was totaling 30.5 billion kuna and it meant practical zero borrowing. Therefore, the borrowing or re-financing of existing commitments, whether on the international or domestic market, had in it a provision concerning the practically projected and envisaged surplus, both the state and the general government budget. When these circumstances occurred with our forecasts that we will have a decline in economic activity, that we will have a fall related to the revenue side of the budget, that at the same time we will have challenges on the bulky side of the budget and how we will finance all these needs that we are talking about, from health, economic to wider social, we have come from, among other things, the rebalancing of the budget which has revised and the side of the financing account. It was even more than doubled, to 63.4 billion kuna and, among other things, the key question was how will the Republic of Croatia get rid of all the funds. And I can admit that, of course, and thank you for your previous conference, that's when we discussed in HS the constructive proposals that came, how and how to perform. We have stuck to our line, which we ourselves said at the beginning, by combining operations on the domestic, international market, but also with partner institutions, primarily international financial institutions or European institutions, this problem, or the need for funding, will be resolved and, ultimately, it has happened. So, by submitting this report in 6 months, I can conclude that we have implemented the financing bill with 30.6., 53.8 billion kuna of the total projected 63.4. However, in the follow-up of the year, during July, August, and now and during September, we can say that we have practically provided all our funding needs for this year. We started with the domestic market, the first operations were related to our bilateral arrangements with banks, we did all this clearly, transparently, remember that I was as finance minister and in a commitment according to the conclusion of HS whenever I came to HS in some way to give up-to-date information or inform HS of all the activities undertaken, after that were followed by operations on the mandatory market, also domestically, in several interactions and after that we prepared, I like to say so in a colloquial way, a field to go out on the international market. This, our exit to the international market, was between the other and the time, but it was essentially planned in a way that we could meet everything we imagined on the domestic market, to meet the criteria for entering the foreign exchange exchange exchange exchange exchange exchange rate mechanism 2 is that in the eyes of the financial public there is an extremely important and significant weight. And there were also very positive circumstances in terms of the debate at European level on this point in the future, and now a very current plan called the EU's new generation. In this way we went to the international market, a bond of EUR 2 billion under very favourable conditions is in fact an indication that we have been well timed among other things. In the meantime, of course, we realized everything we did all the time with international financial institutions. The World Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank, is two items already in HS. Also others such as the EIB, the RBDR and similar ones with which we continue to talk and ultimately the financing account will see some effects of the agreement at European level this year as well. In the first part this will refer to this Shore Programme, which among other things in the form of favourable loans, finance measures such as us cutting down on working time or some other for the preservation of jobs, and, of course, in the perspective that comes and the increasing share of grants that will not be in the financing account but will be as the revenue side of the budget. That's what I have to apostrophe maybe in some reports so far on the implementation of the state budget, the financing account would be relatively less covered in terms, both in the report itself and in terms of some presentation of the finance minister, not just me, but all of my predecessors and colleagues who submitted those reports. But in those circumstances, I think we should absolutely mention it and, and elaborate because it was one of the very important, you remember, and we were asking each other a question of whether we were going to be able to get rid of all these financial resources. And in this time that I have left here only for a short time to refer to the budget for the continuation of the year. We will, of course, report HS, and in some near time in the coming weeks, come to HS and the draft budget for next year, and parallel to this and the budget rebalance for this year. The budget rebalancing will mean, among other things, the finding that the revenue side of the budget is slightly better than the projections we had in the rebalancing process. But also, we have additional needs on the bulky side of the budget. Our budget rebalancing measures for this year concerned the payment of part of the salaries and support for the businessmen in 3 months. However, for certain sectors such as tourism, transport and other service activities, these measures have been extended. In the meantime, we also put into office and measure concerning the financing of short working hours, as well as some other circumstances that were not foreseen at that time. And in the end, we have, among other things, a different organisational structure of the government itself and of the budget users, so if nothing and those technical aspects we will in some way embrace this rebalancing itself. The government will adopt budget guidelines for next year at its session tomorrow. I'm going to use this opportunity, so just to let you know as well that as far as our estimates and forecasts for this year's original estimate of 9.4 for this year would be slightly better, so our estimate for this year is an 8% GDP decline. When we look at individual ingredients from personal consumption through investments to the very export of goods and imports of goods and services, improvements are visible from individual to individual categories, however what is also important is that as far as the budget itself is concerned, we still see it at around 6.7% of GDP in terms of deficits and public debt at the end of the year of 85.9% of GDP. However, it is also important in terms of forward and this three-year period, we believe that this crisis as deep as it is and which still has a very high level of uncertainty because at this point no one has knowledge of the vaccines and about some other circumstances of the health epidemiological segment, and then of course these reflections on the economy itself, but the expectations are that after the fall next year, our forecasts are at about 5%, and in the medium term, something over 3%, which means that the level of GDP from 2019 could reach and reach this at the beginning of 2023. Most of the GDP components will in some ways be neutralised in terms of the fall by the end of 2022, however, we believe that mainly exporting services and certain categories of services will not still be compensated fully. Anyway, whatever these are our forecasts and estimates, it's up to us, of course, to make these forecasts and estimates as good as possible. You were just before and in the explanation of one of the breaks referred to the rating agency and their report on Friday, where above all, what is most important is that we preserved and defended our investment credit rating. But on the other hand, it's just a report that I believe you've read, it's not that long, but it's very, very substantial. It's apostrophe of three key segments. On the one hand, this is the economic part in terms of first and foremost the emphasis on preserving jobs and all that we have done. On the other hand, it's a fiscal part, that despite the fact that we have a temporary suspension of fiscal rules that we can't allow for an end in some way we can say as we have had our own fiscal imbalances and in some way we're going towards going back to what we have in this situation when we have this control of public finances and where we have a trend in reducing public debt. And the third segment is the one that agencies always apostrophy and analyze, which is among other elements of the political economy. So political stability that is a necessary condition and a prerequisite for successful management of both public finances and the overall economic policy. When we actually look at and look at all of this together and put our estimates on some and we face these arguments, I think we have enough arguments to say that these evaluations and forecasts are extremely credible, credible and that on the domestic and international market we can certainly speak very clearly of them. It's up to us to do and to make as much use of the so-called. The positive risks that mean that these assessments can be better, so the decline is lower and the growth is higher, but also that as much as possible we neutralize and reduce further prevailing, therefore present, but also prevailing in the overall sense of negative risks. Again, I mention starting from a medical epidemiology to certain segments and components of our economy. Croatia has one big chance at the moment, which is what is current, very current for the next 2 to 4 years, it is the EU's new generation. I am a Fund of Recovery and Resistance, and I speak on purpose and a recovery where the key element is put on investment both public and private, and resistance means that the economy is being strengthened European and so Croatian to all today possible crises that many people have both economically and politically analysts said, is not the question of whether a crisis will come, it is only a question of when and in which segment and how deep as such will leave a mark. This is also seen here, we recorded the last crisis for six years the decline of GDP in economic activity, and it took us another 4.5 years to reach and neutralize these effects. So only in 2019 did we reach our 2008 level. I believe that we should all be smart enough and wise enough not to repeat such a mistake and mistake, however, rather than, in these circumstances, any of those challenges, and of all of us together, demand maximum sacrifice and effort to use it in that positive sense, so that we take advantage of that opportunity for one quality, real and transformation of our economy, and then, among other things, each such report on the implementation of the state budget will be wherever and where, in some ways, more favourable, as it has been in recent years when more than any report I have submitted in the Croatian Parliament is generally in front of each figure, we have a positive provision. Unfortunately, in these first six months, the situation is with negative signs, by the end of the year, here I have just presented to you what our expectations are, and in any case, I thank you for your attention and look forward to the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6789	Thank you, Minister, you have many replicas. The first line was sought by Mr. Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6790	Dear Ministers, here you have shown the state of state finances in this report, which is slightly catastrophic, a 7.8% drop in GDP, a 7.2% drop in income, a growth in expenditure, a budget deficit of nearly 17 billion kuna. But what I resent to you here is that you have put your report on the coronary pandemic. In part, I can only agree with you here, I wonder how much the responsible political headquarters of civil protection for this state of state which has closed all the catering facilities for 3, 4 months, closed the carriers, closed the shops, on the other hand, the government has decided to pay those who have been banned from the work of 4,000 kuna net wages. So the great co-responsibility of this state of finances has exactly the Civil Protection Headquarters, and today, when we have five times as many infected, we move on to the Swedish model and everything works like nothing...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6791	Thank you. Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6792	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your rep. So, first of all, as far as public finances are concerned, here I will repeat again, over the past years, we have actually submitted reports for the annual budget report with surpluses in the register, continuous public debt cuts for more than ten percentage points in a little less than 4 years, and these were all the things that have allowed us to react from the budget in these circumstances, that we have credibility on both this domestic and international market and all these measures as such to finance. The headquarters and all the decisions they made as well as the Government know that they were also carefully analysed, founded in scientific and professional circles and what is also important to say that they did not ignore this economic part all the time. The fact is that at one point a decision was made on this collokual locking of the economy, but in these circumstances, we had some measures to do with how and how to help the economy get out of such circumstances as little as vulnerable as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6793	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6794	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. It is clear that this half-year report on the implementation of the state budget shows a significant drop in the revenues of the state budget, particularly conditioned by the pandemic covid-19. But a similar situation is happening, you know very well at the level of units of local and regional self-government, especially if I can say that the fall of income is marked by my Dubrovnik-Neretva County or local self-government unit in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, since this county is primarily dependent on tourism, and the fall of tourism where exactly the largest in the local self-government unit has problems with the revenues of their budgets, so I am interested in Mr. Minister what the Government has done so far at the recovery, if so I can say these revenues and the budget of the unit of local self-government and what is your view by the end of the year? Are we going to have any more measures against these same units of local self-government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6795	Thank you. Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6796	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, as you well apostrophe not only of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which is certainly in these circumstances, mainly because of the tourist season, perhaps one of the most affected by the negative repercussions of covid, but for all units of local and regional self-government we initially said this question, and how to ensure the liquidity of the state, state budget, the system as such is extremely important. If anyone can solve this problem it is a central central state and we have assumed on ourselves both the obligation and the responsibility to centralize all these financing needs, we ensure that the state is still much easier than that of a certain city, municipality or county going to market and looking for liquidity, that we secure, and then through these so-called so-called cities. We lower that liquidity. So far, local self-government has been granted about a billion and 400 million kunas, one part of it to finance tax returns, and you know that this year we're the first time in six months, and the second part for the effects of covid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6797	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6798	Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. If you can sum up a little bit again how it came that credit agencies approved a stable or investment credit rating, that it was not easy, that Croatia was also the chairman's country, that the credit rating that we received with the European Central Bank prior to the entry of RM2 contributed to the fact that the same expenditure party which, if I remember well in the rebalancing of 8 billion kuna went down showed the responsibility of this government's behaviour in public finances, that we knew and participated in the planning of the Recovery Fund and the Multi-annual Financial Framework, that you, too, on the councils of SURE instrument that we expected 400 million euros, were all components that led to the confirmation, which are greatly ignored in the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6799	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6800	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So here's just a little higher and rating agency since it's the current topic on Friday when that report was published, and then we made little comment in public space, trying to bring the citizens closer to the importance and importance of such a decision, so I'd just like to apostroph one more fact. Yesterday, the government's president in Koprivnica said in the past few years that only four countries, including Croatia, have recorded an increase in their return to the credit rating investment zone. So, not to say more like a physical dictionary or a dictionary of physicists, that it's much easier to go down than it is up there. When we returned to the investment zone, and it was a really painful job, of course, that in these circumstances first and foremost it was to preserve that rating. And I'm going to repeat once again economic indicators, fiscal indicators, political stability, but the overall credibility has all led to the SNP confirming our rating with stable prospects and of course we're going to do everything we can to keep it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6801	Thank you very much. Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6802	Thank you. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. Just one comment on transparency, so I'll give you all the details later, but one comment on budget transparency. Since the budget openness index has always been monitored since 2006, Croatia is somewhere in the middle of the countries being monitored, so there are places to improve this transparency, there are details that are not analytically developed at the synthetic level. In today's technology, you will agree that there is no obstacle to all obstacles to the whole analysis being seen, for example. For example, in these expenditures according to the functional qualification you have items of a team of economic affairs that are not elsewhere classified, planned even in the amount of 2 billion kunas and even health services up to 3.5 billion kunas etc., here is little to comment on transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6803	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6804	Thank you very much for your comments and replicas. Well, here I am certainly never going to say that things are ideal and that I can't be better. So, especially with regard to the transparency of the budget, you can always do even better and we have to go that way. Since the Single Treasury Account was introduced, it has been one major fundamental reform of our public finances and the budget itself, a major step made, and then the unification of all budget users and all that has been past years. However, the challenges are always new, as you say, were on certain items, there were new circumstances, so among other things there should be an adequate answer. Transparency all, ultimately, these are taxpayers' money and every taxpayer has the right and we have the obligation to report every possible item so that all we can do is further improve and on transparency we will do so. We've been working on a new Budget Law for some time now where we're trying to make improvements in some kind of budget process by contributing everything to even better circumstances. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6805	Thank you. Mr. Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6806	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, here we are, and you said today that the historic decline in GDP is more than 15%. I personally and colleagues from the IDS club have repeatedly warned about the excessive dependence of the state budget on tourism, which also brings too little resistance or little resistance to the crisis. And today we are witnesses, and that is what the EBRD has warned us about. What we of course advocate is tourism is important to us but production is what generates one development and tourism gives added value. You are the person appointed for talks with representatives from the Kanfanar factory, which will lead to further investment, job conservation and spending that is important to speed up the process of exiting the crisis, so what exactly do you do and what can workers expect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6807	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6808	Thank you very much. Well, I'll just be a minute to elaborate on it, but what I can say is that these talks are ongoing, I will, while they are going on, refrain from any deeper comments purely from some professional garters among other things, however, what we can apostrophe and what we have already said many times, of course we will make our contribution to continue production and remain regardless of all the circumstances that you also know and some circumstances, contractual obligations, emphasising contractual obligations, etc., as well as some others that have been mentioned and mentioned in the past weeks in public space, including between others and tax policy. Tax policy, you know, the Croatian Parliament has voted a whole series of laws over the past years where the economy has been released for more than 9 billion kunas, and we will soon come to you with some new proposals, in all segments and so on direct and indirect taxation and what I have to say in particular, so when I talk about a specific case, we can't ignore that excise system either, but the company that produces and exports more than 80%, the excise system It does not in itself have that much meaning or at all no meaning on that exporting part. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6809	Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6810	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, perhaps your comment on this extremely high, strong increase in meat prices of 7.5% and 11%, if you know, maybe the state has reduced VAT 25 to 13%, whether it's some speculation of traders since I say we have lower taxes, maybe the Ministry of Agriculture or the State Inspectorate because they normally increase the price of vegetables and meat and that the prices of energy 10% fall and that the state reduces or encourages consumption, so maybe I don't know whether it's you or the Ministry of Agriculture that makes one comment because this is not good to show for when the state makes contributions and on the other hand, are these exceptional circumstances but it's certainly not pleasant to read that such high amounts are going to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6811	Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6812	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So this time I'm going to try and try and hope he doesn't mind, paraphrasing yesterday's words and teaching Professor. Simovic from the Faculty of Economics on Tax Policy, among other things, covered the entire tax system and clearly showed in some way and then scientifically, professionally proved the justification that history was not only in Croatia but also in some other countries, showing that the reduction in VAT rates was generally not linked and was not fully seen with an adequate price reduction while the reverse case was more than visible. In particular, we went into these changes because we wanted to make a contribution among other things and a particular contribution and incentives in some way domestic production, domestic value creation, as much as and how this resulted, we followed from month to month certain categories of reduction, but if they were reduced prices, it was not appropriate to reduce VAT, we cannot ignore, of course, the fact that certain categories such as meat and world breeding categories, so they have some effects but in any case, thanks for the comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6813	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6814	Thank you very much, Vice President, the Honorable Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. So here I would like you to point out once again that we may be one of the first countries if not the first to react so quickly to this pandemic, reacting in a way to help both the economy and the employees and to amortise all the negative effects that have actually proved to be justified in this way and savings in the budget, as well as the effects that have been achieved on borrowing or providing liquid funds. This is what is important for the public to know how important it is and how timely it is in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6815	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6816	Thank you well-respected MPs on your replica and commentary. So I think that this answer is actually best quoted or read by someone impartial who analyzes it, we are nevertheless biased and subjective in that and of course we will always defend certain measures that we have taken but here, already mentioned earlier and report, rating agencies but also some other institutions actually show and finally confirm that it was not only appropriate to respond, but also timely. We did not wait for the development and the situation at European level, international financial institutions, but immediately put into office, and here among other things I will attach to this previous replica which I have remained in debt, so the state is doing what it can under the given circumstances. So we have no mechanisms if we lower VAT, force someone to lower the price because we are a market economy but of course, do and encourage certain measures to do so. In this particular case, we have taken measures that we can freely say as well as the unprecedented crisis and the measures absolutely without A precedent. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6817	- Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6818	So I have a question about the deficit you mentioned. It is clear that the EU Commission now sees this less strictly, so it sees this less restrictively than before the crown means this deficit and borrowing, although it also violates the Stability Pact and the EU, EU semester rules, etc., but it will later insist on austerity measures. And we saw in the example of Greece, even the IMF admitted that the austerity measures were not effective, certainly not for the social majority. They produced practically in Greece a humanitarian disaster. Is that what we're talking about? Is that what we're talking about? Do you feel that the measures you have taken in the budget where we see that the budget is becoming less and less full of VAT, is that, which is the basis of this budget filling, the tax reforms you have implemented In 4 waves to be effective? [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6819	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6820	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs and for your replica and comment. I think you're right about both the circumstances and the suspension of fiscal rules. But good is now a question of more predictions. I personally do not believe that it will go in that direction as it was in the last economic and financial crisis and that this so-called. sharpen or save measures re-imposed as a key item. If such a case were then, perhaps in these circumstances, we would place a greater emphasis on the sustainability of the public finances budget and less on the preservation of jobs. Anyway, Croatia I think it has one really good experience, however painful it is from the past crisis, not to repeat that mistake. As it has been in recent years, we have given her an epithet that may again be subjective, but a smart consolidation where we have practically secured both payments and growth and pensions and salaries and meeting all needs, but in one appropriate way to bring these public finances back to balance. We'll keep going that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6821	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6822	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, the liquidity of the constitution is preserved, that is the fact, the result is the amount for interest which is 6 times the amount for child's allowance, let's say what we see from the report. It is evident that the expenditures exploded during the first six months. How is the budget for next year under way I am interested in what is going on in order to bring the expenditures of the state into some reasonable frameworks? The fact is that some economists even say that this crisis threw us out in 2005, then the expenditures were significantly lower, and here's the thing: maybe you'll let us know what's going on, and we'll see when you give us a draft budget, but here's a chance to ask you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6823	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6824	Thank you well-respected MPs, so surely the wasteful side of the budget, I'd say, I won't give her a superlative, but one of the most important as the income side, but the same as the financing bill. All of our needs for this year that I've counted can be further increased by an additional EUR 3.5 billion, as far as we have to secure by the end of the year. For the next year only when you start out from retirement, the indexation that we predict is about 2%, that's a billion and 200 million kuna more, so our contribution to the EU budget, so the functioning of the state, social policy, the health system, and then there are always reasons why the spending party is the way it is. What is most important, however, is that we do not run away from keeping our expenditures under control so that they are manageable as such. That's what we showed this year when we're in rebalancing, remember, the first measures we've funded we've exclusively financed from the redistribution of existing expenditures. So, all budget users, all ministers, savings in their portfolios to focus where most important is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6825	Thank you, too. Mr. Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6826	Your Honor, I'd like to repeat one question I've asked before. Are you as minister satisfied with the expenditure side in general with regard to the budget itself and do you think that should change dramatically in the future? That's the first one. Secondly, regarding debts that have been accumulated over the last few years, how do you think that during some subsequent period, this will be covered, given that the state through hospitals or through other public institutions owes large-scale drugs, but when these same companies owe them to the state, not only companies, but also individuals. That's one thing. And there's another interesting thing you mentioned. Here we see that funding and mostly management is centralized, how that we haven't turned to, say, the Danish model where it's practically decentralised, so that still a little greater management powers are put on the regional centres or the county... Even according to local self-government? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm also interested in How are you going to compensate for next year's crisis? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6827	Thank you. Mr. Minister's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6828	Thank you very much. ... 45 minutes, but not enough minutes. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the Minister of Finance is satisfied, I don't think that, neither can I, always better, in terms of transparency and cost-effective foreign budgets. We try to do this, of course, we always have different views on how and how dynamic we are, but I think we've made big steps on the cost side of the budget as well. I personally hope that in some due time we will see our budget and on some principles and principles at a higher level, which is the so-called zero without unsetting, something that we did at the beginning of the 4th and 5th months to practically focus on what is necessary and to build a budget from below, rather than on top. As far as major drugs and health problems are concerned, a topic that is very common in HS and has been apostrophyd many times already. All these measures and injections, the resolutions in terms of the settlement of certain parts are obviously not a solution, need something more comprehensive. We'll continue to do at least as far as these unions are concerned, we'll have talks by the end of the year, we'll try. At least how many of those payment deadlines you put in some frames. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6829	Thank you very much. Ma'am. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6830	Thank you. Dear Minister, at the outset, I would only ask if you could, in the future, given the scope of these documents, provide us with the tables in Excel. The Excel can also lock the data, but in this way we can neither analyze them nor... Comparing, etc., is a really difficult analysis and we actually have very little time for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's part of the transparency story. The second question is that we would ask you as part of the anti-corruption measures actually to make public purchases linked to budget items, so that in each public procurement we have a budget position so that we can later analyse which part of the budget has gone beyond which economic operators, it is also very important for monitoring the actual prevention of corruption. And an important thing, and this is about consumption, so did you think about lowering VAT to public services because that way you could really control The price, it won't come. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] up to the rise in prices [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] And I think the effect would be much greater. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6831	Time. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6832	Thank you, well-respected MPs. Well, as before, one of the previous replicas of Puljak, therefore, as regards transparency, of course things can always be better. We, along with the report defined by the legal framework, are obliged to submit to the Croatian Parliament, of course, are always at our disposal for any other and additional clarification, the question, not only during the debate but also otherwise. I can only direct you to the website of the Ministry of Finance. No, I have to admit the most ideal and the most transparent, we'll fix that too, but we have a monthly data release, income, expenditure, all of what it is, we're trying to keep that time gap as short as possible. As far as VAT is concerned, here, it's also teaching to a colleague of Lalovec, as he mentioned, so when we look at, here, for the past four years, tax reform and all the changes we've made, the only thing we've really seen is a total reduction, and that's a reduction of VAT on the supply of electricity, as well as some other related services, but in any case, one topic we've always considered, of course, as well as a whole tax policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6833	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Find it in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6834	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, did you calculate or at least frame the extent to which, with the Covida-19 pandemic, corruption in public procurement and the leak of public money in private pockets has affected the negative risk of GDP falling? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6836	Thank you very much. Well, it's hard for the Ministry of Finance to count and calculate, in a way we're imputing, and if we can even have any insight into whether there were these or those shops, etc., that's what some other bodies and other organs do. I can only say that we are counting on what is in the official and recorded course, so, among other things, some time ago, we went out with the data and it was updated today that, as far as the expenditure side of the budget is concerned, we had about $12.5 billion more expenses and expenditures to this day. So, most of the time, more than half of that amount is for payout measures in the economy, for health care, these unambiguous loans that I said according to local self-government, HZZO, HBOR and similar, and also for some 10 billion kunas falling income, on the one hand, on the basis of delays and write-offs for the first time, taxes, but also due to the fall in economic activity itself that reflects the decline in income. That's what we can count on and deal with it, of course, publicly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6837	Thank you, too. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. She's the first one. Vesna Vucilovic in front of the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6838	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers and Associates. In front of us is the report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of the year, and already at first sight is an obvious comment which the revenues have failed, expenditures transferred. Compared to the same period, we heard that incomes are lower by 5 billion, expenditures are higher by 10 billion, less VAT, taxes, contributions, as the main cause of the fall in income. Of course it makes perfect sense because when you lock people in houses, you limit the movement, the drop in consumption is fully expected. In the spring, it was important to scare the citizens before the elections, and now it is no longer desirable to spread fear and panic, so the prime minister tells us that panic is gone and that everything is fine. And it's not right. In the spring, we see now, it was not appropriate to spread panic and ban the work of many companies, and also, it is not appropriate to presently wear pink glasses and speak everything will be great. What do we do privately when we get fired and our incomes fall? We're cutting costs. It's the only logical behavior, unless you have a big brother sending out leads from abroad. This is how Croatia behaves, counting on the famous billions Europe will send us. We have become unfortunately what Kosovo was in the former Yugoslavia. Croatia is at the beginning of Europe, but not because our people are incompetent, lazy or ignorant. We've been at the beginning for crime and clientelism of the ruling structures for the past 20 years. The affairs are shrinking, changing like on the current tape, unfortunately, they're not shrinking. Representatives lose immunity by 3 in one day. We've got years of inaction coming up. The charge comes to us, which over the past years we haven't made any reforms except for the reform of national holidays. We now depend on this famous help Europe sends us. In the first six months, over 10 billion arrived. That's 50% of our collected VAT in the same period, twice the collected profit tax. In those 10 billion, 7 are from funds, 3 are from EU assistance, and if we know how this money from the funds is mostly invested in the public sector, this practice continues in light of the arrests and affairs of the last week alone, and from last week alone. It remains questionable how much that money ends up in the private pockets of local powers. If USKOK were to promote in detail numerous local sheriffs, he would likely encounter other similar companies that adorn the championship in selecting suppliers. But institutions do their job. Income from state assets and public enterprises amounts to a miserable 800 million kuna. This amount testifies to the relation to governmental property management and to the negative selection in the selection of management staff. It is no wonder that affairs in public enterprises have become part of everyday life. Political staffing on the party key chooses the same, rather than capable, and the result is consistent with that. The expenditures are $77 billion, they're 15% higher than the previous year. The cost of services is about 3 billion, higher by 3% compared to last year. 90 million kunas were spent on the promotion. The question remains why is the state so advertised and what are the millions being spent on? Rents, rents 428 million, 13% more than last year, space obviously never enough. It is also an interesting item for 30 million kuna premiums. So it's far less than the funds spent on promotion, and it's about renting space not to talk about it. The state should have a secure property. From this amount, it is seen that this property is secured, so the issue remains related to the security of the property that has recently been hit by Zagreb. If it has not been secured, the question of liability of the relevant shall be raised. The team's costs have been reduced by 10 million kunas, saying they can be if they want to and why the item was 10 million kuna higher last year. Was that necessary? It probably isn't, but there is, it can be. Financial expenditures speak of debt slavery in which we are located they are more than 2% compared to last year and as I have already said, the cost of interest is 6 times the amount paid for the child's allowance. The expenditure for courts increased 4.5% compared to the same period last year is 906 million kuna, and the processes in Croatia are going on and on. It is 400 days until the first-degree decision on average. Some accused and deceased before the verdict, which is with those on the media pillar of shame, their once successful company no longer exists today, and the indictee, meanwhile, is being released like Srdjan Mladic and his SMS company. And that is the result of our notorious judiciary, which is why we are among other countries that are not globally competitive. Subsidies have grown, amounting to over nine billion kuna. We heard and we all know that the good part is conditioned by Covid measures. We also cannot ignore what entrepreneurs tell us from day to day, and they say, you don't have to give us anything but stop taking. It is not insignificant because they all pay in the budget, and when the state shares, we have seen the case of Josipa Rimac paying subsidies, support and substantial funds to the like and the chosen. In a country that is the first to perceive corruption in the EU, this practice is very dangerous and brings in a number of potential problems and future affairs. Agriculture is being invested more and more, the results are getting worse. In the first six months of 4.4 billion million more than last year, the minister heard and spoke constantly about the growth of the number of cattle, sows and other cattle last week. But Croatia continues to import food, and only the production of milk on farms has dropped 11% in the past term of the government of Andrej Plenkovic. They'd say something rotted in the agriculture sector. To supply water 402 million kuna, 229 more than last year. The losses still in the system too great, the quality of water would be discussed, mostly here I mean Slavonia and the share of arsenic. A guarantee has been issued for the purchase of new trains, so we remain in Slavonia to see if any of these trains will also be on the tracks towards Slavonia. We may no longer ride 60 or even 20 km [20 km] per hour by rail and have a bicycle dilemma or a train. 9.6 million kunas were allocated to the development of sports, and even top athletes were banned from training due to the epidemic. A number of competitions have been delayed including the Olympic Games, numerous amateur clubs continue to be banned from training in school halls while professional clubs are currently training in the same hall without problems or masks on their faces. How do we finance all of this? The bonds, borrowing and debt exceeded 300 billion kuna. In the first term, GDP fell 7.8% with a record decline in the second quarter of 15.1%. The only thing that grew in that period was imagine state spending and that's 2.7%. I will not look back here at all those extra-account items because there is simply no time to mention how it has drawn attention to me to explain the implementation of the plan, the financial plan of the Environmental Protection Fund and the energy efficiency which is an example of the laziness of the administration because on the 1.5 page, the reasoning of income and expenditure is written to me, which seems to me to be some sort of a highlight of the haughtiness of this essentially unnecessary fund. As the budget for next year is under way and finally I hope that the relevant ministries will take care of the fact that uncertainty remains the main feature of the next period and, when drawing up the budget on the spending side, we are left with reforms that are announced but not implemented, and without reforms, we will continue to exceed the figures on the left and right, raise credits, borrow and remain at the beginning of the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6839	Now it is Mr. Pavliček's turn and then Mr. Zekanovic will share the time in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6840	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as I pointed out in the replica to the Minister, today in this report an extremely poor state of state finances, we see on the one hand a decline in income, on the other hand a rise in state expenditure resulting in a total of less than 17 billion kuna budgets, but what is particularly in my eyes, which has shifted everything to the crown and that the crown is the cause of all this. The comparison with other European countries shows that the decline in most other European countries is much lower than in our country, which means that they were still doing something different towards the crown of the pandemic. So I personally believe that in the name of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we believe that great co-responsibility in this state of state of the state of finances is currently in place by the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia. The purely political body that decided to close half the state during March and April, let's just remember, today we had 30 to 50 infected per day, all the catering facilities, numerous shops, banned work or transportation of carriers, were closed schools, kindergartens, etc. On the other hand, the government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to assist all those who have been banned from work through the financing of salaries employed by 4000 kuna. On the one hand, this same government is making a decision to ban labour, on the other hand it is also making a decision to co-finance from public funds or from the state budget. Six months today. Later, we have 5, 6 times more infected on a daily basis and everything works normal. Today the catering facilities are working, today the shops are open, today the kids are going to school, today the car carriers are driving, what's changed? I wonder what's changed? Whether this political body will admit its mistake and say that we are co-responsible today that the state budget is under 17 billion kuna because we misjudged in March this year and closed the state or we'll all be pretending to be on that old folk's "Eat the Wolf of Donkeys" and nothing to anyone. Someone has to bear not only political but also moral responsibility because when we see all this now, I wonder who's normal here, who's crazy here? So I'm head of the Civil Protection Headquarters of the City of Vukovar, so many contradictory decisions have been made by the national headquarters that you can't figure out what's going on anymore. So until yesterday's ban, there's no need to wear a mask, then we all have to wear a mask. After that, children at school must be separated but come by the same bus to that school. Absurd to absurd. And all this is the result of the good work of this particular lack of such a disastrous decision of the Civil Protection Staff itself. I think this budget unfortunately just spilling from hollow to empty, without any effect, where are the big investments? Look, I don't remember in the last few months some large infrastructure investment that was financed by the state budget. For example, in the city of Vukovar, we don't have a bypass today, there was supposed to be public procurement at the beginning of this year, it was delayed because of the pandemic's crown. Where are the demographic measures to be taken by the state? They're not there, simply because this budget is used to run from hollow to empty, and so the existing state would be maintained as long as it was shot at the seams from all sides. I think that someone, and we primarily think of the representatives of the Staff, must face this truth, that they are largely responsible for this situation and not just the pandemic of the coronary virus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6841	Now it's Mr. Zekanovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6842	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There's no minister, there's a secretary of state, thank you for being here. So we have an important document, a half-yearly report, but the minister doesn't. He's got more important things to do. What's the most important job? Isn't it the most important job in this highest home of the Croatian people to defend your report? The more important business it can be, the more I don't get it. So I'm very sorry that Minister Maric is not here because I know he won't listen to what we're saying because the voting machine is on this side, they'll do what A. Plenkovic wants anyway. I'm just gonna pull two, three thoughts from Minister Maric's speech for this pay phone a few minutes ago. He said that in 2023 we would reach the level of 2019. And he said that in 2019 we came to the level of 2008. So the equation is simple, in 2023 we'll get to the level of 2008 and we'll be satisfied. There is no state in the EU and here I will say responsibly, there is no one in the world who is proud of where the finance minister is proud that in 2023 he will come for development in 2008. Will Minister Maric come to us here in 5 years and say great, we'll come to the evolution of 1945 and then we'll take it as a success? So it's a complete disaster. Another thing Mr. Maric didn't mention from this pay phone and it's very important and it's not another piece of help that we get from the EU. I'll repeat, we didn't get another lip, and here in this house, A. Plenkovic was happily announcing billions in early March. And they're gone. So he announced at 6 months, then at 7 p.m., and at the beginning of this call, and then a few days ago, when he had his current watch, he re-announced and announced. And money still has nothing, so much about European solidarity. And dear Minister, if you ever watch what I'm saying, is it European solidarity that Hungarian MOL is shutting down the Sisak refinery these days and what is becoming history? Is solidarity European that today Croatian tanks, INA tanks drive Croatian oil from Croatian oil fields in Hungary for processing? Well, it's not European solidarity, it's everyone's looking at themselves. Everyone's looking at themselves. Well, it's not even European solidarity when Austria, Germany, France and who knows what country has not imposed a ban on tourists to go to our country because there is no European solidarity, there is today exclusively European selfishness. And Croatia has handed over its sovereignty to the EU which clearly does not take care of it. So we're paying today, and I'm talking about it and I'm going to repeat, 650 million kunas more EU membership in the hope that we'll get some kind of refund from that EU later because there's no money returned. And I will point out again in the end that fantastic fact that Minister Maric boasted, in 2023, if everything is okay according to Andrej Plenkovic's plan, we will be developed as we were in 2008 and we must be satisfied. And who's to blame? It's nobody's fault. It's not the Civil Protection Staff's fault, he did everything right, shut down the state and backward Croatia. How much? Let's count it out, 15 years ago and nobody's guilty because Andrej Plenkovic is not even guilty when the directors, the managers of the commercial companies he's put in prison, but he's always someone else's guilty, he's dealing with corruption. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6843	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Boris Lalovec who will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6844	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have before us a proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the state budget for the first 6 months of 2020 and what is first and said here under the strong negative influence of the epidemic, a 7.8% drop has been recorded, or when it is somehow measured by quarterlys is the strongest decline in the second quarter of 15%. When this is translated in layman's terms, we create about 400 billion kunas of GDP a year, 400 billion kunas. At least we create GDP we create goods and values in the first quarter that's about 90 billion kuna, then in the second quarter we create about 100 million kuna in the third quarter means during the summer when the tourist season we create about 112 billion kuna and then the fourth around 98. Why am I telling you this? I am talking about showing what the seasonality of the Croatian economy is, and in this seasonality of the Croatian economy, the strong seasonality of the Croatian economy depends on our budget and what we are talking about here today. So when you see that in the third quarter we create 112 billion kuna, so we're talking about last year's amounts relative to the first quarter, that's almost 30% higher value, so 30% higher value during the summer when we have 15 to 20 million tourists, consumption, trade, etc. compared to some kind of activity that takes place in January, February, March. This is how tax revenues are made to you, so are the complex and whole structure of the tax, and then when you see the fall of certain economic activities, it also has a strong impact on tax revenues. And this shows this report where VAT falls most strongly, it fell by about 3 billion kuna, but there we always have to count with some certain distance, so somewhere around 12%, and it's the most important source of revenue from the state budget. And that's why my question here this morning is how much more generally we have here, unfortunately, because of the structure of the economy and the cost structure of our budget, or the expenditure side of the budget, is the importance of VAT and some attempt to stimulate economic activity through smaller VAT, so we see a reduction or between VAT rates from 25% to 13% given a certain incentive to trade, given a certain incentive to the economy, then you see on the other hand these entrepreneurs who have received support from the state budget of these 6.7 billion kuna would be interesting to get by some sectors, meaning trade, etc. and those who have received support from the state budget increase the price of fruit, vegetables, meat, etc. which have lower rates, increase by 10.11%. And if we know that the largest part of the structure of these prices is the price of energy, that's how certain structures are set, and energy prices on world markets are falling, so much is falling that oil in history has never been negative, it has been traded at loss. So whoever bought the oil still had to pay, it never happened in history, that oil creates losses, that interest rates are down, that you have on the other hand such manipulation on the food market and I hope it will prove to be both the Ministry of Agriculture and all the agencies that it is simple and through some legal regulations we must not allow such strong manipulations on the market. Is that where no one can tell me if the state of subsidies and farmers, gives subsidies to traders, reduces tax rates when the hardest prices fly to the sky. This has now shown this case and I think we should take this seriously if something like this would happen in the future, that no matter how certain market mechanisms exist that the state has to react there especially because the state has also participated in a buy-in, reoccupation of these certain agricultural products. So I think there must be additional controls here, especially because it is the most important part of the basket for Croatian citizens. The decrease in actually most of you see that there were in and VAT exports from about 25%, but we see that imports were not so much a decrease somewhere he was at 17%, but what was actually real and it proved to be actually that investments fell somewhere between 6% and 7% and that's what worries. This is the first thing that actually when the economy slows down first, the banks give you credit, we're somewhere in the moratorium of about 40 to 50 billion kuna credits, meaning economic activity and incentives don't have if the banks actually close down, close that pipe and now they're looking at the only one who's going to continue to give credit and economic activity is gone when there's no credit activity and when it's actually starting to fall strong household spending because they're simply expectations. The economy is actually a perception of born what's going to happen in six months, meaning what's going to happen, what citizens expect in six months and something like that is actually very similar to you actually reacting to the rating agency. There was talk here about rating agencies, we're good, as we managed to deal, so agencies are watching Croatia's perception for 2-3 years. We are looking at the current impact, and our perception for 2-3 years is positive, no matter how much someone wants to talk about it negatively and spread certain things because we have already strongly entered Euro-Atlantic integration, what we have actually said and joined the market of 500 million consumers. And our exports and actually the use of certain funds. Can we imagine what she was like in 2008 when she simply couldn't, no matter what she said, she couldn't have just gotten any funding on the financial market. I was unfortunately in this one society where Europe was only talking about cutting, just.../incomprehensible/... cutting, cutting, cutting, European Commission or Union simply did not know any other plans to exit from certain crises other than cutting. Today, you do not hear in any European country a completely one perception of different instruments of combating the crisis benefits of the European Commission or what it used for 2008, a completely different concept, another concept. So fiscal measures are developing, monetary measures are developing, we have seen and the strong influence of the CNB that stabilized the exchange rate at 7.53, although it has spent one significant part of its foreign exchange inflows, one significant part of the foreign exchange inflows has spent, it has reacted as far as the liquidity of the market is concerned, and today, even though it is closed to entrepreneurs, it is what we must work to open it further to entrepreneurs is still large and amounts to around 40 billion kuna in a system that is good for the perception of citizens that means that there are some money there, that there is no more to be drawn into itself, and in that part, monetary policy has played something similar to that of the European monetary institutions. The fiscal measures are also given a certain incentive to spend and what we are all talking about here using some means and perception of rating agencies for Croatia is because we are entering the ERM 2 mechanism, which we are going to access the European currency exclusively because they know that there will be no only the HND fight with foreign exchange liquidity because we can only get foreign exchanges from two ways, we can get from the export of goods and services, or most of the foreign currency we get from tourism. And when he was strong and from foreign direct investment, unfortunately foreign direct investment in such crises where everyone is not moving in, tourism is seen as being the most sensitive source of foreign exchange for us to be a stable kuna when we enter is actually EU funds, yes. It is an inflow that comes to Croatia, which comes to the expense of the CNB that is later converted and converted, and that is the part where Croatia and now less vulnerable than in 2008 when it depended exclusively on an inflow of foreign exchanges, which exclusively, or direct foreign investment or export of goods. So once again, it's been a strong pressure on budget revenues, we're talking, not just, and the most important part of the VAT, so in the future we'll be discussing such an economy, such a structural reform that we're now strongly changing VAT is impossible, impossible. Because from VAT, don't forget that we're paying half the pension fund, the pension fund pays 45 billion kuna pensions. 22 billion kuna is paid from the peace payments, the difference of 22 billion kuna is paid from VAT, pensions are paid from VAT. To be clear, that there's no borrowing, no money, so VAT is, I'm saying very clearly, in order to have a stable pension system we have to have the VAT as it is. We must not further endanger the pension system because we are located at a lower limit of EUR 500, 400 to 500 of pensions. And that's why when we talk about some kind of big instant solutions, they're gone. I think the measures are going to be taken in the future quarterly It will not be possible, just for a short time, to take long-term measures for a year, but from quarter to quarter and what is important to say that Croatia is good to access all integrations. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6845	Thank you, too, Mr. Lalovac. It is now up to Mrs Sandra Bencic to speak on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6846	Dear Vice President, I thank you. So first I'm going to say something about the quality of the document and the possibility that we, as Parliament, will monitor budgetary and planning, and then the execution. First of all, the documents we're getting are a lot of things that aren't in themselves a problem, the problem is that they're actually unsearchable. So they're in unsearchable formats, and there's no reason why table views aren't delivered in an exel document that's being searched and that allows us to analyze and compact the different documents that we get. So, for the future, they would really ask that we be supplied with documents in a searchable form, so that every document at the outset has content to make it easier to do so. As regards the transparency of budget implementation, we have another proposal and we would ask those who are in the Committee on Budgets that maybe, and ask the Ministry of Finance for this, which is that, in fact, real consumption would be transparent, especially in relation to the outflow of funds or expenditures of budgets that go towards the economy and economic operators through public procurement, it would be important that each public procurement has a label of the budget item from which it is paid so that, in fact, with the implementation of the budget, it would be possible for all entities that were users through the public procurement of the budget and in this way to detect, and perhaps prevent some corruption affairs if we saw that certain economic operators, therefore, have significant, actually obtain significant funds from the budget. Furthermore, what is important in this report that we want to highlight is therefore, we saw in it that it is in the first half of 2020. a total of 6.7 billion kuna expenditure for the covid crisis or for the implementation of measures to preserve jobs in employers. What we think would be important is that when such a large part of the budget and the budget consumption that was not planned, we could not plan a covid epidemic, it is therefore spent on preserving jobs to then get the evaluation of the impact of these measures in the report. What does that mean exactly? This means, therefore, that evaluation of the impact of measures on the preservation of jobs and the level of income of workers should include data on the number of workers who still lost their jobs in those employers who were users of measures because there are, how many there are and who were employers. Furthermore, the number of employers who were users of the measures, and also paid their dividends for 2019. Since, unfortunately, the definition of the measures has failed to make it impossible to pay dividends for 2019. those employers who are users of the measure. I will now say as someone who was co-owner of the company and later crafts, so it is, of course, the duty of every employer to take the risk first and the means available to invest in the myth of the risk, and only then, of course, the state. So, we are not against the state helping to preserve jobs, and in particular workers' salaries, but we are in favour of knowing whose primary obligation to take that risk is and it is not acceptable for people to pay dividends for 2019. and very high, so the owners of the company, and that at the same time we paid them millions of support. So, that, we can't have that situation anymore and we'd really like to know how many such cases were, how many dividends were paid in total and how many of these employers received total subsidies from the budget to, to preserve jobs. As far away as the document itself is concerned, we need some further clarifications. For example, in the document, the income and expenditure account according to the economic classification on page 8, position 3226 concerning single-use military assets, we have in the first 6 months, in the first 6 months of 2020 compared to 2019, 3200% increase, and we do not know what, nor would we ask for an explanation of what kind of cost. Similarly at 3296, we have an increase of 200% compared to the first 6 months of 2019, we should also explain the costs. Then, at the rate of interest received by the loans of companies and craftsmen outside the public sector, we have an increase of 4700% and 47 times, respectively, we should also have an additional explanation. And we also ask that on page 10, position 4228 further clarify the increase of 1100%, which is approximately 11 times compared to 2019 for military equipment purposes. So these are some expenditures that are not really clear to us exactly what they were getting and why they are such huge increases compared to 2019.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6847	Now it's Mr., ma'am, I'm sorry, Mariana Puljak, who will speak in front of the IP, Smart and Voice Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6848	I thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this exhibition, just to point out that Croatia is the second poorest country in the EU, so after Bulgaria and the crisis, we welcomed it from that position, so that it should be kept in mind when spoken and in this report, is it often mentioned that the covid or the crown crisis is our fault for the state of finances. So the report shows the expected changes on the side of income and expenditure, I say the justification is often due to a covid which is of course not planned and it is logically this crisis and it is expected that it is all, all the deficit is explained in this way. However, the coronary crisis has actually eaten ever more serious reforms that are announced most frequently in all pre-election campaigns, and we are not actually going to apply them and curb the actual expenditures of the state. Therefore, our revenues have unplannedly decreased more than planned, expenditure has also increased more than planned and difficult budget years, which will actually depend on EU assistance, but will depend primarily on sound management of budget expenditures. If we weren't members of the EU, this sinking budget would be much harder and more serious, and now it's serious, but I'm saying it would probably be even harder. So, the decline in income, the increase in expenditure and the rise in government budget deficits are the most important features of these six months. The revenues of the state budget were reached at 60 billion, less by 7.2% compared to the previous period, and most of the revenues relate to taxes reduced by 13.6%. The value added tax, we heard a 12.6% reduction compared to last year, it's a serious income hole created by a reduction in personal consumption, a slight recovery, here we saw it in June and still some charge from June to October. It is the highest source of tax revenues, which is why its impact is the largest in total revenues. Not to mention, therefore, from a report where there is still a reduction in walking, taxes, excise duties, contributions, pension, insurance and employment, revenues from administrative and administrative fees, and on the item that is seriously taken into account in the next periods, this is mainly EU income, revenue, therefore, from assistance that generates 25% growth. In the absence of income due to these exceptional circumstances, spending management is actually a key leverage of budget management, and here in this report, we see, we have a growth in expenditure that increased by 15.2% compared to the same period last year. I say again, a justification for the COVID epidemic for job conservation measures, all together when we add 16.7 billion additional, 2.8 billion budget expenditures, so a total of about 9.5 billion kuna. These specific expenditures, in exceptional circumstances, increase the level of expenditure which is generally excessive due to inefficient management. Ineffectiveness includes, of course, corruption that can be freely said, became a way of life in Croatia. The explanation states that increased expenditure for employees, in the education sector, is one of the reasons but is not, we believe that it is not worth the justification given the amount of costs to be affected by structural reforms. Due to the postponement of all these reforms, Croatia has been the largest number of years in the post-pression period since 2008, so the longest we have been out of the crisis and from this one as it seems, from this crisis we will get the longest out of all the countries in the EU. If we look at the cost of economic classification, the first place is the growth of subsidies, it has increased to 9.3 billion compared to 3.7 billion in the past period. The second largest increase in growth was in the aid of the given abroad and within the general budget, so social protection, general public services, economic affairs, health care, public order and security, education slightly less, 4.9%. Therefore, an analysis and answers should be sought through key moments, which is a real effective public administration reform that must bring additional value by reducing the share of the costs of the state apparatus in terms of these general and public services and economic services, in particular the inflow of subsidies, which is once a fine name for covering the inreliability, inefficientness, inequitableness in the system of large state-owned enterprises in the public sector. So we are particularly interested, here when we talked about transparency earlier, in communication with the minister, why not see these details and analysts, we have here, besides agreeing to deliver reports in machine-readable form or in table views, so that we can also analyse them, so sometimes we don't see details and real analysts hiding behind sums so these advances for Croatia airlines, 150 million kuna, HZ infrastructure, HZ passenger transport from the category of subsidies transferred to the category of assistance, Croatian roads, Croatian highways, Croatian waterways, etc. Therefore, long-term internal problems covered by budgetary expenditure and the postponement of structural reforms are the root cause of a budget deficit that has only been met by the growth of expenditure and the decline of revenue caused by this epidemic. Finally, we have an increase in the general budget deficit, a general government deficit of 17.9 billion, of which the government budget deficit is 16.7 billion or 4.6% of GDP. Compared to the previous period, the deficit of the state budget has been increased 9 times since the first half of 2019, it is a serious deficit, EU assistance is expected, although it is both desirable and welcome, it should not be forgotten that the underlying reasons in our long-standing internal structural problems that have not been seriously addressed by any government so far. There have always been some surface, partial reforms that have spent all available resources. Without deep reforms on the expenditure side of the budget, all the reforms on the revenue side remain in fact empty and Croatia will remain at the bottom of all EU rankings, so we will remain the poorest and the other poorest EU country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6849	Thank you, too. He's in front of the HDZ Attorney's Club now. Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6850	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Ministers with State Secretary and Associate. Before us is the proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2020. Despite the fact that some colleagues want to show that this situation is primarily due to our non-implementation of any reforms and measures taken, I must say that in the previous 3 years the state budget has had surpluses, and it has taken care of a lot of segments, but you will allow that much cannot be done overnight and for certain changes takes time and time and is always much harder, I have always said that something negative has happened but to return and raise and do in one way a positive effect. It is important to say in this period that what I have pointed out so far, when you look at 2019, that this year has indeed been and will be very much one of the most challenging, challenging years in this term because it is important to achieve exactly that balance between what is possible and what is caused by the pandemic can be done. At home, the economy and what has already been mentioned, therefore, is obvious and that is what this government has responded in time and responded adequately with the measures it has taken. In the first quarter, 0.4% of GDP was growth. But afterwards, in this quarter, it fell more than 15% compared to the previous year. What are the components of exactly that and the reasons for the fall? These are primarily reduced exports of goods and services of over 25.6%, a decrease in household consumption by 6.8% and a reduction in gross fixed capital investment of 6.3%. At the same time, imports fell something about 17.5%, but there was also a growth in state consumption of 2.7%. However, what is still to be said is that the achievement of these revenues in the first half was influenced by all those tax discharges that many want to forget, which took place in 2019. Also, the tax changes that took place in 2019 with effect from 1.1.2020, so it should certainly be noted that it intervened precisely on value added tax when tax rates were reduced for example. Food services in catering from 25 to 13 and many others before. In addition, the taxing system of profits has changed where the increase from income from 3 to 7.5 million kuna, where the profit tax was reduced from 20 for this category to 12% and thus we have 10,000 new taxpayers who are 93% of whom are subject to a 12% profit tax. There have also been changes in specific taxes and excise duties where the return of the part of the excise duty paid for diesel fuels used in rail transport, goods and passengers and the release of excise duties on electricity in rail transport of goods and passengers has been imposed. In addition, a change in the taxation of non-alcoholic beverages per proportion of additional sugars was made, so that instead of the current linear quantitative taxation per hectolitre, the correction was the excise duty of alcohol and tobacco. It should also be noted, however, that the increased personal deduction from 1 January 2020 to 4,000 kuna, which has a major impact on the achievement of budget revenues, is also mentioned. As we have seen, the government has just used all of the positive and that fiscal space that had previous years and which has achieved that those finances also bring in very high-quality levels in this context have been adopted two aid packages to the economy and citizens, and so the first changes have led to the fact that entrepreneurs who have had a 20% drop in income have been freed from direct taxes and contributions, and then the April package additionally for those who have dropped 50% were fully exempt from direct taxes and contributions. So when we say that this budget is less achieved by 7.2% then it has a very good basis and that the impact of this particular covid has also affected the reduction of some income as a profit tax and added value, with the profit tax having that effect, given that we have also been making shifts in the presentation and delivery of financial reports, so the effect with a departure in the 7th month. We must also not forget that the revenues are helpful, which means that we have stepped up the use of European funds where they have increased by more than 25%. In expenditure, we have the execution of 77 billion kuna, which is when we look at the cost structure, or what measures are spent most on, then it is precisely these 6.7 billion kunas of expenditure for employees and in the economy that means a lot. However, we also have an increase in expenditure for primary and secondary schools of 1.2 billion kuna and also 2.3 billion kunas are the funds spent on EU funds, i.e. participation and funding from EU funds. So this report shows the real situation, shows everything and the use of the budget stock, shows a very high-quality job report on the domestic and foreign markets, which can be seen nicely. And it can also actually show how much with those savings that have been achieved so far could be directed towards the economy and disabled and thus save many jobs, and in addition to that, we also have the position of the Commission for Fiscal Policy, which is very supportive of these measures, and precisely by suspending these fiscal rules, we actually support everything that the government has done and enables, in fact, to suggest that it has a significant impact and increase in the medium-term and long-term Croatian economy that can be strengthened in this way and we are aware that the public debt will grow and that in May 2020 it has recorded a level of 81.5% of GDP. However, we believe that these quality measures can be very high-quality and fast, quickly improved. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports this half-yearly report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6851	Thank you. Now Mr. Zvonimir Troscott will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6852	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. By listening to all this data that we've had the opportunity to see and present today, and here and presentations, it's all beautifully analyzed and it's shown, it's shown in a way that we can all understand it. However, these facts cannot be disproved by what we have heard today. But unfortunately we don't hear anything new, nothing in the sense of how things change. The EU funds, always welcome us, welcome a pillow to ease the crisis and maintain stability. However, we cannot accept that it is all that we as a people and a state can do. How to attract direct investment? How to Incentivize Production? There are no such answers either they are principled or they are abstract to understand for us fellows here, and also to our citizens that we represent here in the assembly. Our program in this sense is not entirely accurate, but it guesses essentially and gives a long-term recipe, which is that if you want to transform a country that is what it is, you have to invest in education and effective institutions. Under no. 1. The strategic economic plan must be to attract foreign investment and in this sense the best example can be given to us by Infobit, Infobip and Nanobip who are recognized in international capital markets where Infobit, Infobip even became a unicorn. In this respect, tax policy must be a function of raising the competitiveness of Croatian companies and in all Croatian, Croatian economies. Today’s presentations show a lack of important structural reforms, which are the most important health system. We've heard about the debt to the majors. Furthermore, the pension system financed by the VAT 50%, the disbursement of entrepreneurs through compulsory membership fees according to the HGK, the HOK and further when the entrepreneur owes the State will be charged immediately, and when the State owes the entrepreneur that payment is delayed. Furthermore, the education system and labour legislation, here we see a problem of requalification and in general the HZZ where there are many who are, who are receiving social compensation and are working in the gray economy, which we did not take into account when adopting the Foreign Law. And further, we also have a judicial system that is the key where court proceedings are long lasting. Therefore, the key is to raise Croatian productivity, growth in productivity and wage growth, and there we have a deviation and divergence from the euro area where Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Slovenia can greatly be an example of how to implement, implement and reform and how to do so. We must preserve the liquidity that is rapidly achieved by increasing personal consumption and, in this sense, as a club MOST, we will welcome a reduction in the tax on, to the income announced by 1.1. i.e. a change in all those items that will lead to the release of liquidity for personal consumption that is potentially leading to an increase in gross national income. The tax base must primarily be in the health and pension system, an educational system that needs to be aligned with the labour market, primarily by retraining all those who want to work. Furthermore, abolished social assistance to all those working in the gray economy and further channel these funds towards young people who unfortunately emigrate in view of this new Foreigners Act where the price of labour on the market will be affected, labour in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, all tax, non-tax and parafiscal duties should be disbursed. In this respect, MOST advocates the abolition of mandatory membership fees according to the HOK and HGK and we advocate an Anglo-Saxon model, whereby such chambers should operate on the basis of companies where they would self-inflicted with their services, rather than being paid by companies on the market who are very unhappy with the services they receive from these chambers. Here we talked about the spending side of the budget, we'd only touch one component, which is cutting down on working time, and we welcome that policy. But on what we have warned, whether the state, whether the state has done all possible mechanisms and made sure that those entrepreneurs who received the funds really won't fire the workers we've funded at this time in 10, 11 and 12 months. So far, we have funded 6.7 billion kuna and will still be financed from the European Funds, but I do not know if we have managed to protect ourselves enough with mechanisms that companies that have received the money will respect it when the time comes. And now the final score. I'm going to name four, three positive things that happened, and they're directly tanging the RH budget. The 170 billion kuna financial envelope is a potential money that we can withdraw from EU funds if we have ready-made projects, I say potential. The second positive item is the announcement of a reduction in income tax and this is positive and we want to congratulate, negative, pardon third, and congratulations to the Government on returning to the investment zone and confirming ratings because it is nevertheless an assessment of the perception of the Croatian state over 2 to 3 years in the future. As for the negative things I'd like to stress here through today's exposure assessment. I would like to return to those loans that we voted here in the Croatian Parliament and return to the fact that they are still voted here and signed by the government for a start of 4 to 5 years, which means that this government will not start paying off those loans yet, and that will welcome the new government, who we will see, which means it is a delayed debt. It was here that we received an additional EUR 400 million from the European Instrument for Temporary Support for Risk-relieving Unemployment, but I would also like to point out that Croatia has received a billion Euros and 7 billion 500, 500 000, 500 million kuna, but Slovenia has received 100 million more. Then the question arises why Slovenia that is with the market is working twice as much as Croatia has received 750 million kunas more than Croatia. It's the same thing to valorize. Furthermore, government decisions and the closure headquarters of the entire economy, which further potentiated our imports for the reason that Kauflad and Sparta were open to us while, for example, Dolac was closed to what made it impossible for our products to be manufactured, and we bought cheaper and foreign. Four, the closure of Meggle and the potential closure of Bat's production plant in Kanfanar is a negative side. Five, Croatian oil is refined in Hungary, and refineries are closing in Croatia. Six, the issue of buying INA shares now that consultants have submitted an assessment of the value of INE that on September 22, 2020 the price of INE is 2,880 kuna, Minister Coric said in an interview that the government will buy shares and shares and that it will not burden the budget. In what way? Do you think maybe the stock and the package will buy you a website? Seven, the only component that grew in the second quarter of 2020 is exactly state spending, which is the segment of GDP in which we representatives or the club MOST are committed to reforms, in particular the health system we said, the discharge of entrepreneurs, justice, public administration and all where we would need money or liquidity that we would like to put and pump into the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6853	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Anya Chimpraga who will speak for the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6854	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2020. We see, it is evident that the coronary crisis has had a significant impact on the budget. The total revenue of the state budget was reached at a rate of €60.4 billion, down 7.2% at the annual level. While the total expenditure amounted to 77.1 billion kuna. So this year's budget revenues for the first 6 months are approximately 5 billion kunas smaller than our same period last year. The drop in economic activity most this year's budget revenues reflected VAT revenues that fell by 13.2%. Industrial production dropped 6.4%, turnover to a low of 6.6%, and the index of construction works increased by 3.1%. The average number of registered unemployed in HZZ in the first term was 148,000, an increase of 8%. The expenditure of the state budget increased most in the first half of this year on subsidies for the implementation of job conservation measures, which resulted in 6 commas billion, 6.7 billion kuna. It is clear that the expenditure due to the pandemic caused by Covid-19 and the earthquake that hit the head of the city of Zagreb and the surrounding budget have been additionally burdened, but on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I will stress that special mechanisms should be created which will simply have to be compensated for a huge, huge delay in the development and development of the area. Statistics suggest that out of 117 units of local self-government in which members of all national minorities with a share greater than 5% of the population live, 103 units of local self-government live members of the Serb community. Of these 55.45% of Serbs live in assisted areas where development is in groups, means from 1 to 4 according to the development index. According to the information we have as a club, the following needs have been shown for the development of municipal economic and social infrastructure. Construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation of 32% of national roads in these areas and 48% of county roads, 32% of local and 46% of unclassified roads in these undeveloped municipalities. Over 60% of the settlement has no water network and in municipalities the average rate of the development index is 54%. The average source income is 959 kn while the average unemployment rate is 33%. The population depopulation between 1991 and 2011 is -45%. All of these points to the need for additional measures for greater financial support, poorly developed, economically and demographically impoverished areas. The intervention plans for many environments, of course, bring new investments, projects, new jobs, which would greatly help both the preservation and survival of these parts. With the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem we hope that the programmes and measures will also focus on the environments where national minorities traditionally live. But what about the environments that are not covered by these intervention plans and projects? The opportunity for even regional development, of course, must also have municipalities such as Vriginmost, Gline, Topusski, Dvor, Vrhovina, Udbine, Lower Lapac, Gračac, Obrovec, Kistanja, Ervenik, Bishop, Kijevo, Civilians and many other municipalities. We must therefore step up the distribution of funds in regional development, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Demography. Otherwise, areas that are ideal for agriculture and rural tourism, such as Slavonia, Kordun, Bani, Lika and a good part of the Dalmatian hinterland I come from, will not be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6855	Thank you very much. Now it's individual debates, the first lady. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6856	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. The macro-economic indicators are under the strong influence of the COVID-19 disease pandemic, resulting in a 7.8% decline in the exports of goods and services, a decrease in activity in tourism, a drop in demand and a decrease in fixed capital investments. In particular, I will refer to the overall budget plan of the Ministry of Agriculture, which for 2020 amounts to 7.5 billion kuna, of which 4.4 billion kuna was made in the first half of this year. 58.62%. The European funds are planned for a total amount of 5.2 billion kuna, of which 2.8 billion kuna was made in the first term. 54.36%. More significant activities and projects are linked to direct payments in agriculture to extremely sensitive sectors with 119 million kuna paid for rural development measures and a common agricultural policy with more than 2 billion kuna withdrawn, making use of 78.4%. For direct payments from the common agricultural policy, payments have been made to farmers, first and second wars totalling 1.5 billion kuna of total planned 3 billion kuna and by the end of the year will be made by advances based on the single requirements for direct payments and... rural measures submitted in 2020 with an indicative advance of 1.5 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Based on most trade chain data in the first 6 months. This year, compared to the same period last year, the bought-out amount of domestic vegetables increased by 11.3% and the value of the bought-out fruit increased by 18.7%, which is an indication that it can be done at will or at sea. In the first six months. the external trade deficit of agricultural and food products has been reduced by 60%. This is the result of a 6% drop in imports that stopped at 1.5 billion euros. Exports are growing by almost 3% and amounting to slightly more than 1 billion euros. The structure of the external trade exchange clearly speaks about which production is not self-sufficient and where there is a problem with low competitiveness. Croatia needs to strengthen processing capacity because it is not good to export raw materials such as cereals and olives while on the other hand importing significant quantities of meat, milk, pastry products and oils. On the other hand, the high deficit in the external trade in fruit and vegetables speaks of the need to increase production, association of manufacturers and supply concentrations and adapt it to consumer requirements. Increasing domestic production is a prerequisite for self-sufficiency in food production, which is a matter of national security. In order to ensure fair conditions for the placement of domestic products on the market, we have to deal with unfair commercial practices and unfair competition that is a weight around the neck of our Croatian farmers but also more and more concerns arise from consumers who wonder if they know what they are eating. By prescribing product quality and stronger controls, this problem that so far is as large as a house could be much smaller. The increase in production and the reduction of imports cannot be achieved without reforms and without investments. However, we need a fairer distribution of support because it is not acceptable, nor sustainable, that 20 agricultural economies in Croatia receive on average 546 times more support than the average agricultural holding, and nearly 70,000 agricultural holdings do not receive any support, although they are registered in the register. Farmers must be able to dispose of agricultural land because it is a prerequisite for increasing production and development of the economy. I expect green public procurement and short supply chains to become a way to place domestic products in the kitchen of public contractors. I know that now may not be the best time to discuss VAT reduction, but I deeply believe that we should open these talks and plan to cut VAT to food when conditions are met to make production cheaper, and then make domestic products more accessible to our citizens. The smaller VAT should also have all those offering exclusively Croatian products in the service sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6857	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull has a replica, so stay here, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6858	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you were talking about agriculture, about self-sufficiency. Do you know how many irrigated fields of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia? Absolutely everything you said I believe that the government has haired and that, as far as domestic production is concerned, import lobbys within ministries and institutions are absolutely suitable for imports of food products, especially agricultural products, and that's true. The biggest problem of Croatian society is not our empty village and peasant who digs other people's fields in other countries. The biggest problem is in institutions, and this is the Ministry of Agriculture, which is responsible for dividing agricultural land, to help the farmer. However, it helps import lobbys because otherwise I don't see any problem. Well, it's a much more fertile Slavonia than the Irish country. The Croatian peasant works in Ireland, not in Croatia. Import Lobbies are the biggest problem, and that's the problem. [[Intruder: Thank you]] an institution. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6859	- Mrs. Crescent. Fifth answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6860	Dear counterpart Bulj, the data I presented are absolutely accurate, not only data from the ministry or government, but data from the sector, they show increased investment in the agriculture sector, which is also logical because we and the EU Member States are and everything that comes for rural development and direct payments comes from the EU budget. But I don't think you've listened very carefully that I've talked about structural reforms that are needed to remove the problems that burden Croatian agriculture, which is unfair commercial practice, unfair competition and imports at dumped prices, and I've also offered solutions to how to get there, and it was seen during this crisis when it couldn't be imported as it was wanted, that there was an increase in the purchase of domestic fruit and vegetables, which means it can be done whenever it wants or when it has to, and I absolutely support stronger market control instruments. the supervision of agricultural products imported and the better placement of domestic products. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6861	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Marian Pavlichek's turn, he's gone, he's losing his right, and Mrs. Paulichk's right. Katarina Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6862	Good afternoon, everyone. First, I think we should say something about the issue I raised this morning, Minister Maric, therefore, about the obvious deficit in the difference between income and expenditure or the lack of income compared to expenditure in the budget which is now being financed from the new borrowing of the state, and the EU Commission now sees that we say it less restrictively than before the crown of such borrowings. Therefore, the budget deficit is financed from the borrowing of the state, and rather the EU Commission would react negatively to such a thing because it is a violation of the rules of the EU Semester Stability Pact, etc., and thus it would certainly block something, and our government, in view of its character, would surely agree to restrictions. The EU Commission has now abolished the rigidly restrictive rules for government borrowing, i.e. an increase in public debt stemming from these rules, so the rulings are now allowed to finance public spending more easily in the short term. However, in the perspective of this, we should be aware that we will therefore return these non-liberal restrictive measures, austerity measures as a condition for further refinancing of public debt, but also for placements through the Recovery Fund and the new EU budget. So now public debt can grow more than before, the EU Commission allows it, but will again insist on austerity and budget balance measures or even condition budget surpluses such as in Greece to reduce public debt. However, it has been shown that Greece has not reduced public debt with budget balances or budget surpluses, but has reduced aggregate demand and has thrown Greece into the spiral of debt and deflation. That even the IMF admitted that the austerity measures had been missed. But of course the question for whom they were missed, is it not for capital, the austerity measures have certainly produced in Greece a humanitarian disaster, but capital was not an important item. That can happen to us colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the deficit in the budget is a sign of the alarm and need and necessity of questioning the current alleged development strategies that rest on neo-liberal development myths based on a private initiative by reducing the tax on the basis of a free competition, etc. Development and socially inclusive growth are only possible through policies of state interventionism, protectionism, through industrial policies, but also through democratisation of these policies, through working self-government and the like. Development involves rejecting the orientation that some economic analysts rightly call... because it is consistent with the owners of capital, physical and human at the expense of those who live from their work. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That reform fits and what we've heard about, the ICT sector, which is completely and completely wrongly expected to be destroyed by large entities. Growth engines are big businesses and their small satellites, but such a reform is beyond the accounting tricks this government represents as a development policy. What we see in the report on the implementation of the budget is an illustration of the accepted myths about the need to lower taxes for the richest, while the tax most affected by the poorest therefore, VAT, is not reduced. The half-yearly report, therefore, shows how the VAT is filling the register, whether, while tax reforms are being conducted to facilitate the richest lives, whether, from profit tax, we see in the report, the case is only filled with 5 billion, and from VAT, 23 billion. But they've just failed the most, as we've heard, the VAT revenues for about 3 million kuna, if I'm right, so 17% has been mentioned. It is partly because of the fact that we have reduced, of course, what everyone mentions about economic activity, because of the effects of Covid-19 but also because of the fiscal effects of the tax discharge measures that are supposed to help the economy. For one thing, therefore, it is not strange in the renting tourist economy that depends on the dominant foreign and partly on domestic consumption during the tourist season. On the other hand, tax discharge is a real bet on entrepreneurs we're supposed to unload, so we'll all be better off. Namely, in 4, there is now a 5th tax reform, which is consistent with certain groups and thus an empty budget. There is no evidence that the tax changes undertaken will affect economic growth. However, I'll remind you that several waves have reduced the taxation of profits, that we have one of the lowest tax on profits, and this year that amount is even lower, so We need to ask how we're going to fill the budget. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6863	Thank you. ... replicas, good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6864	Thank you, esteemed Vice President, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's something I'd like to say about this half-year budget implementation report for the first half of 2020, because it's worth looking at, perhaps, at a period of budgeting itself, there sometime this time last year, on the 9th, 10th month, we've brought the budget neatly into that previous term in, I'd say, one dose of optimism, that in 2019 it might have been one of the best years that we could have in all areas and of course it was all seen and in the budget that was made for 2020, there somewhere in mid-11th month. That was the year of '18. and '19. and '17. We couldn't know what was going to happen, exactly what happened in the 2nd month, means the day of 25.2., when we got the first infected in the Republic of Korea virus, and then they turned all of ours, let's say, good opportunities and optimism, and it just started in the second direction, so we can say that in a year we might survive the best year, but obviously and a much worse year than we expected, and that it was simply not predictable, let's say, an input that could then already be considered as something that threatens us. 2.5% was projected growth, and now we're listening to a 9.4% drop. Some agencies say it will be less and I think it is one message to all of us that this government and this minister and everything we do, to do really best that we can not first achieve all our goals and preserve the state's finances in orderly form, as it has always been in recent years without any major earthquakes happening. Coronavirus was indeed one great unknown and the cause of what we have now in the first 6 months of 2020 simply, it wasn't just us that went this way, there were other, many other countries, I think they all entered a different thinking regime, which with their economic indicators to do in 2020 and all the countries that pass this story simply show the deficit. So, this story really needs to be set aside by what the state has done as an effort to keep, first of all, jobs, and that's what we've been talking about for months and what citizens have recognized, which is 6.5 billion direct investment in the private sector to preserve jobs and that's one major part of this deficit that has occurred in the past six months, in the first half. It'll probably be something by the end of the year. That's why we also grew public debt from the projected one, when we were already going towards better numbers at lower, simply, we came back to the number we almost had in 2016 when we took responsibility for this country. Of course, I want to look back at what has passed and local self-government, as one of the leaders below, I want to thank the Minister for what they have done in these 6 months, helped us, very much, that we can keep the basic functions in our budgets and that we can function normally due to all the unfavourable economic flows, and that I will immediately make the difference between local self-government on the coast which is dependent on tourism and those on the continent that may not have felt so much of the impact of tourism on our own budgets, but there are some other economic activities, too, so I don't believe that we will all repeat the figures we had in 2019, but what was a great help to us, these unambiguous loans that we will return, which were part of the balancing some of our own obligations that we had between the meaning of local self-government, the state itself, to, to the state, to which we were going towards the economy, and then we also at the local level, that we are helping this same economy, especially in the same economy, especially in our local economy, which would be much more than in our local budget. But it's important that we did one by one the best possible tourist season that has left us a dose of optimism that in 2021 we can do it all over again, but in a much better and safer way than we've learned in these past few months. And for that I say, praise for all the ministers and your ministry for having understanding of our needs and for what we do down at the local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6865	Thank you very much. Stay because Mrs. Peovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6866	Well, it's good that you thank the minister, but perhaps you should ask the question if you are aware that the deficit you say has and other countries in the EU will not be dealt with in the same way, that now, as I say, restrictions are allowed, we live in one fashion that after the debt begins to return, we will face internal devaluation again as it was in 2008, 2009 with the crisis and we have never recovered from it, and that means the reduction of wages, loss of jobs, all social and material indicators of poverty will get worse? Does he realize that the tax reforms you are carrying out are supposed to benefit these working majority who go and benefit only the richest in the past period have not shown any benefit to this socially depreciated majority, and that when the debts will begin to return, they will certainly reflect on the lives of those who are really the most vulnerable in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6867	Answer Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6868	Thank you very much. Dear MPs. When we were creating a state, we also knew that at that moment we were not equal to many others who were in our environment. We've had 30 years of experience behind us, so we know now that we're not going to be able to take the same burden and deal with this issue, but we certainly have shown that we know that in that time of crisis we're not going to make good decisions. Finally, we are not the ones who judge as politicians here in this assembly, we went out in the meantime and to the elections, after this half-yearly report, we have had the opportunity to say what they think about, whether tax reforms in four circles gave something to all the citizens you're talking about or not. The citizens assuredly, convincingly this time supported this particular government, this minister and the prime minister to lead us for the next four years because they obviously knew or felt that they were being cared for in the best possible way. Is that the maximum we can achieve? They'll show time ahead of us. I always say that there are people who know and can and can make decisions and those who know everything and have never made any.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6869	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6870	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. So today when we talk about the half-year report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2020, there is almost no colleague who has not looked back and has not stressed that it is understandable that the figures are different from those expected in view of the pandemic of the coronary virus that led to significant negative and social and economic conditions, and therefore our budget is not as planned in December of last year. However, what I would like to stress here is that we have some other reasons why the figures are not as they were in 2019 because we are very happy to compare the first half of this year with the mid-term 2019. It should not be forgotten that the previous government relieved its citizens and entrepreneurs on 4 occasions with 4 packages of tax reform and the last 4th package of tax reform has disbursed additional citizens and entrepreneurs with 2.4 billion kuna, and all these regulations and all these legal provisions came into force on 1 January 2020. So on that basis alone, we had different profits, e.g. VAT is reduced to preparing and serving food from 25% to 13%, which is extremely important to all of us living on the coast or on islands where there are almost no citizens and residents who do not live as I often and gladly say, from tourism and tourism. Furthermore, the tax on income of only 7.5 million kunas per rate of 12%, unlike the previous provisions, which had already been imposed by those entrepreneurs who had 3 million kunas of income. The base deduction was also increased to 4,000 kuna. Also, expenditure on primary and secondary school employees, according to the collective agreement, should also be increased by 1.2 billion kuna in 2020. Furthermore, pension and pension income expenditures also agreed and complied with all the legislation, and this item also increased us by 740.1 million kuna and, of course, with two packages of measures which increased expenditure by 6.7 billion kuna, led us to the state we now have in the budget. One of the most popular aid measures was to pay each worker 4,000 kuna with a tax write-off and contributes to companies with a decline of more than 50% and all praises to the Government and the restoring minister who continue with these needs measures by the end of this year. In April alone this year, we had 100,000 employers who paid their salaries for 581,000 workers. When it comes to tourism, I would say only briefly that the number of insurance companies has been reduced 0.5% in the first half of this year, mostly in the accommodation, preparation and food service activities because we have a negative movement and even a decline in the number of overnight stays by 77%. All of which, of course, conditioned that we had the number of unemployed who increased by 8.3% and I believe that the figures in the second half of the year would be much better because August alone records much better numbers than it was before. In fact, we were expected to have only 30% of the season in 2019, and August has in commercial facilities is about 60%, and all private owners, or private accommodation, were the best, and we have to say that we have a 51% drop. Here, all the praises and efforts to continue with these measures especially in those activities such as passenger transport, catering, tour operators, all those who had a fall greater than 60% and those who, due to the decisions of their local and national headquarters, were to be shut down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6871	Wait a minute. The first is Mrs. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6872	Dear MPs, can you explain to me how the cuts in taxation get affected by the charge of the budget? Furthermore, do you know which place on the profit tax scale means the amount of profit tax, we have in relation to other countries in the EU? Furthermore, have salaries increased with this sign of a tax reduction? Do you know where we are at the employment rate, say, in the EU? Do you know where we are in the EU according to the pre-existing labour contracts? Do you know where we are towards Eurostat, according to the employment rate? Here, any of these questions if you can answer me, and given your praise for tax reform, the reduction in profit taxation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6873	Thank you very much. I think the Minister should be answering you for half an hour. Here I will first, as far as taxation is concerned, means under the new law all those who have income above 7.5 million kuna pay a 12% tax earlier, it was for those of 3 million kuna and there is a large number of entrepreneurs who just belonged to this category between 3 and 7.5 million kunas of income to make it happen. In the first 6 months of 2020, profit tax amounted to 4 million 153,613, compared to 2019. 79.1% is a index, so we have a reduction, and if we look at it as planned, that's 63.6%, which means a little more than half of what we've been planning, given how much we've been doing and how much we could have worked for the first six months of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6874	Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6875	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Juričev Martinchev, the subject you have spoken to is the topic of tourism. So this is something that is absolutely challenging in the context of these first topics, a half-year budget implementation report in half a year. But today we have headlines in the paper that regardless of the efforts that the Government made that part or most of the hosts in Dalmatia decided to quit or the big headline was in one of the press actually their dissatisfaction. I try to be reasonable here, and no matter what effort you make, you can never please everyone. We also had the opportunity to see a great disproportionateity between the number of registered tourists in the country and what the minister could see on the basis of the fiscalisation that it was. What's going on in Dalmatia? What's the problem now because we're going to see it in the budget for the next six months? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6876	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6877	Thank you very much. As far as tourism is concerned, we know very well that most of the Adriatic hospitality and tourist facilities are for only 2 months, slightly more are the lucky ones who work, but surely such facilities are not located on islands especially uninhabited and it is very difficult to work for 2 and 3 months, and pay all the dues for a year, especially not to keep good cooks, waiters and 4,000 kunas is a commendable help given by the state along with paid contributions, but to have a good, valuable, quality chef. in the restaurant your amounts are far, far bigger, and our caterers have worked very little this summer, they couldn't make so much money that they can finance a whole year of so high income with all the donations they impose on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6878	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn, and I'm sorry, Anka Mrak Taritaš yes, please. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6879	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues are ahead of us with a semi-annual report on the implementation of the state budget for this first half of 2020. I use this opportunity, it was not a custom in the former assembly that ministers are with us for all day debates, Minister Maric was one of those exceptions that he has always been and I always try to highlight it for the simple reason why it shows me that it is important to the minister himself, regardless of what he hears from us MPs and what we will say through the debate. This report on the implementation of the budget for the first six months actually figures show everything. We've had and we've still got the crown crisis or Covid-19 which not only hit us, but it's hit Europe and the world. It turns out that the lockdown that's been around the world, that there's only one month or two left, is actually that the whole world would be bankrupt. So not just us, but all of us, and it turns out that this has to be approached in a different way or that we've snuck into some things and into some situations and we thought things were happening in our own way. Things are not happening in themselves, and this report on the implementation of the state budget, or all the topics we are talking about, we need to discuss in terms of what to do next, what reforms to do further. This is a warning. I'm absolutely sure, in that I'm not, I always try to think positively that after the crown comes some other crown or other story and that we have to be ready for certain situations and be absolutely prepared and do a series of reforms. This is the topic we need to work on, so this is a story where we need to do reforms. If you miss your chance, you've missed it forever. You and I know that the government has decided about the crown and the summer months that are extremely important to us for tourism and to open up and enable tourism and allow people to actually come and that certain people, therefore, that the citizens of tourism are making money, we still don't see it through this 6-month report, we'll see it further, but the figures show everything. In fact, the figures show what is always the relationship between the ruling and the opposition. The ruling will praise the government, they will say about the efforts made, the efforts to keep jobs, and I must say, I am one of those who was also in the former Parliament's assembly and we, as an opposition to those decisions that were and we have concluded that they were good, that they were possible, to keep jobs, to support them. We've been warning about some of the things we're going to warn you about right now. Through execution, the opposition will emphasize all those bad things, they'll say we should actually learn from this. We need to take a step out of this. We need to take a step out of this, of course, with regard to the functioning of the public administration. We are all, the fact that we have these days and that and this whole debate has somehow fallen into some other plan since we have this big affair called JANAF, that we have had one public or one company that was extremely good on the market and that all the time the domino effect opens up the scales that are the extent of the damage that has been done which is actually not a good picture of this country, is not a good picture of what it is, but to go back to this topic. So this implementation of the budget points to the fact that we need to wake up, that we can't sneak into the situation everything's going to be fine, we're where we are, let's try to keep our noses above the water and somehow swim. It says my people, they need to wake up, they really need to go seriously, they need to be analyzed into some serious reforms. So we formally can and we have done this, secure, keep the jobs, keep the people to stay, but what I purposely asked my colleague Juričev Martinchev and she answered, the good cook you won't be able to keep, he'll go somewhere further, a good waiter you won't be able to keep, so what the state has made possible, the state has made it possible for its activities that we are head over water but what we need to do, we need to take a step further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6880	Thank you, too. And now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6881	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished Deputy Prime Minister and Minister with fellow Members, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here are a few words about this half-year report on the implementation of the 2020 budget, of course it was marked by the crown crisis. The prime minister's exposure at first was very clear and too clear, this year is a challenge and it is a great challenge for all actors and of course, most of all for state finances. Today, there was a lot of talk about a well-known Croatian lateral mind that always came to its own, so it was the most dedicated work when it came to lockdown, about when we were in the 3rd and 4th months. Had a good part of the closed making catering, making shops. I was Chief of Staff of Osijek-Baranja County and I know exactly what they're talking about. We were the first county to launch the opening of green markets, we were the first county to spend the spring sowing, which was in progress at that moment, and I think the headquarters initiatives were the ones who ran the whole story. I think at that moment when you take areas, I'm going to talk about Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, which has 700, 800 000 inhabitants and there are only 150 respirators in all hospital facilities, then I think the decision to shut down in that part was absolutely correct when we look at what was happening in the environment. What's good and not that it's good but it's great, and this government recognized it, it's helping entrepreneurs. In the area of Osijek-Baranja County, a total of 32,000 workers were covered by measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which certainly already fragile the economy of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, at least kept their head above water. It is a decision that certainly has made many, many benefits and preserved the Croatian economy. What especially delights us people from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema is, of course, a continuation of investment. I would say that if there was no crown crisis, in 2020 it would certainly be a reference year when it comes to projects related to the end from which I come. Continuing Corridor 5c, one of the strategic important projects in our county and other neighbouring counties, from Osijek to Beli Manastir is certainly a capital building facility in Donji Miholjc, which has been waiting for construction over 60 years and is funded by the state with 80% of its own resources, over 200 and over 75 energy reconstruction projects over 200 million kuna in our area, our county is certainly the measures that have come well. At 4 a.m. 4.5 billion kuna in Osijek-Baranja County alone. It's a trend, but the crown has made its own, the crisis has made its own. Of course, by not getting away with the crown crisis, we believe that any crisis, and this will strengthen the view of all of us that reforms are necessary. Surely the Minister of Finance, the ministry and the government have a plan to put the Croatian economy into frameworks that will be self-sufficient, a word that is said quite often here and certainly is one of the most important words that should become not only fiction but should become reality. So I think that all of this that we're going through and going through is going to lead to that ultimate goal, which is that we have a country that we've been standing for, of course, over the last 30 years. And most importantly, we are the most responsible people in this Croatian state, there are no others, we are sitting in HS and what we are saying is certainly what someone will or will leave with a decision to stay here or to move on. So let's be realistic, be responsible, do what I think is best for all of us, that the challenges of time we know how to answer in the right and only possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6882	Thank you, too, stay where you were, have a few replicas, first replica has a gentleman. We can move on or we can open a round table. Can we go on? Can we go on? Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6883	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I was in Slavonia, so it's not exactly how your citizens talk about it, we need to know and you need to be correct that the coronary crisis has only exposed all the bad policies according to Slavonia is Croatia not self-sufficient. You know this well that people from Slavonia are leaving, leaving their households, their economies and going to dig in Ireland which is far less fertile than Slavonia. And the companies are leaving, and we see that people are out of work in Osijek. So now I don't know if it's the crown crisis that exposed all the bad policies that are being conducted towards Slavonia, I don't know if you've been involved in it or if it's really the coronary crisis that you're now going to call upon these next 4 years.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6884	Thank you very much for...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6885	Excuse me, first of all, I have to give you my word, Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6886	...the radishes. Of course not, the responsible man never asks for excuses in, in something, but that there are circumstances it certainly exists. Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem did not begin to be devastated by the arrival of the crown of the crisis. There have been a lot of bad times in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, but I am sure that this crown crisis and responsibility of the Croatian government towards Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem in this way, as I said, has kept the economy of Slavonia, the Baranja head above water. That's very important. Responsible moments, historic moments looking for responsible people, I'm looking for concrete moves. I therefore believe that by continuing the reforms, by continuing the projects that we have begun, we will come to the point that our children are not going anywhere further than to stay in their end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6887	- Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6888	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow, you spoke in the introduction of post-wise intelligence and the headquarters. You know that when the headquarters goes with its work and the crown goes, fear in a man of the unknown is a real fear. That was unknown. We didn't know what to do next. If headquarters had made a decision that we all had to stand on one foot a day for half an hour on the blowout, we would have done it because we didn't know what to do next. And, of course, there's an ex-brain when you start... And when you get that you have to live with it together, but it wasn't the subject of my replica. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The theme of my replica was reform. Reform is a good word and we all like to read the word reform and we all like to refer to reform, but that reform doesn't touch me and not touch me, so it's good. So this is the time, the time when it should be used, it needs to be used for reforms and to love them. in this assembly [[Intruder: Thank you]] to see the government come with that proposal. [[- Thank you, Mr. Dark.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6889	Thank you, Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6890	Thank you very much. I agree absolutely with this last thing you said. As for the first section of headquarters, I was the head of civil protection headquarters of the Osijek-Baranja County, even for the first time when we had a recorded coronary virus in our area with Dr. Peric entered the space where there was a man who was positive on the crown. We knew so little about it, we thought so little about it that it wasn't something that could hurt us. But let's be honest, the crown crisis was exactly what you said, something unknown, something we didn't know. But we should also be honest and say that local headquarters had the right to propose initiatives at the time and seek certain solutions. As I said, the Osijek-Baranja headquarters was the first headquarters to launch the opening of green markets and catering facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6891	Thank you. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6892	Thank you very much. My colleague Ivanovic, well, I've replicated this part of you where you've introduced us to the fact that you've been the head of a regional civil protection headquarters and you know for certain why this role was important and why it was this one, these events that started to happen, and I've been talking about it since the 2nd month, and so on, it caused what we have today in a half-yearly report in six months. Of our other colleagues from the opposition today we heard that up to them they would already be in the pluses in each segment, so we simply have to distinguish these little things because man can't believe such debates that up to them would already be all in the plus and it's all kind of wrongly done in some way. And today here we can say that we have the same number of employees as almost before the crown of the crisis and that it is certainly the state that has made it possible to have that kind of relationship, regardless of what someone is saying. We have to say it because simply, people have to hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6893	Thank you. Mr. Ivanovic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6894	I absolutely agree with what you said, I said in my individual debate precisely that we had only 800 thousand residents, the figure itself speaks for itself, I don't think I have to make any particular argument about it, but that's the health part. This economic part is certainly the measures of the Croatian government, I said that in our county, 1/3 of all employees received support. A total of 32,000 workers from my county, 300 million kuna, I think it's certainly something that has contributed to our economy's collapse anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6895	Thank you. Mr. Pavić. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6896	Thank you very much. I'm going to give my colleagues an injury to the Rules of Procedure, I've raised them before, you haven't seen them, if you'll let me. Well, thank you very much. [[I didn't see it, it's okay.]] A colleague, Boric, injured Rule 238, because by imposing opposition, the position that the opposition is all the time insulting the Croatian government, and apparently Mr. Boric is the only one in the Republic of Croatia who thinks that he is living well. Well, that's how I withdraw this violation of the Rules of Procedure, if he thinks that a beautiful Croatian people live. I'm withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6897	Thank you very much. It's been a while. No, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but let's move on. Mr. Pavić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6898	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You summed up very nicely how this crisis was and everything was reflected in the budget as the Osijek-Baranja County. There is somehow the thesis that citizens of Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema are not satisfied with government policy. Well exactly the best feedback in the first six months and how the government of Andrej Plenkovic was dealing with this crisis is 16 mandates in the 4th and 5th constituency. This is the best result of this government, and this is the best indicator that the citizens of Slavonia have stood behind this government and this policy and have confirmed, as well as the management of the Staff and the management of this crisis, this is trust, and through the project of Slava, Baranja and Srijem, citizens have seen the potential and development and future for staying in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6899	Mr. Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6900	Surely the only result that is worth, the result that we achieve in the elections. I'm going to say only one piece of information that speaks in favor of what I've been talking about, there's one place in our county called the Marians. With its suburban settlements, there are 1,600 inhabitants. At this point, they're making an investment for 65 million kuna. That's the information that defuses all the others who say that the time we're in is bad. Not bad, it is challenging for sure, but let's be honest, over the past 3 years there have never been more investments in the space of these 5 Slavonian counties that have fallen significantly behind the rest of Croatia. It's something we need, it's something we have to strive for, so here's what I hope the next financial envelope will come in favor of what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6901	Mr. Josip Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6902	Dear Vice President, Honorable Representative Ivanovic. I agree with your exposure. You are one of the few here who really as an operative who ran the headquarters, can speak, I would say and competently about what was happening at that time. At a time of crisis where, together with local, county, municipal and city headquarters, I would say, they manage the crisis together and manage the crisis well. I commend what the government has done in terms of employee salaries, it has really helped people to survive in the economy, to survive this crisis, not only in Slavonia, but in all of Croatia, and I want to say, another important fact, in my opinion, that the units of local self-government were competent and financially, I would say powerful and powerful that they can cope with the crisis, and thanks to the introduction of the fund for alignment and I am taking the opportunity to thank Minister Maric for this move because he has strengthened local self-government in Croatia and I also helped solve this crisis. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6903	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6904	Thank you very much. Surely this latter thing you said is important. Had it not been for this alignment, it would have been difficult, especially the east of Croatia to endure this crisis. As for what I'm going to do, here, once again, as a man who was at that point one of the actors in the worst times, as far as national headquarters is concerned, there was never a problem in communication, however, all of the ideas we had, all of the opinions we thought would encourage the economy, that they would not stop life in those areas were considered and most of our initiatives were given a confirmed answer to that. I'll say, here, I told you about the green markets, the spring sowing, but we saw the first county, the county headquarters that asked for there to be no ban on entering the village, but to be at the level of the entire county. So whoever wanted to have the initiative could have shown it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6905	And in the end, the last replica of the lady. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6906	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague. After all those positive indicators that we had after four rounds of discharge in the wake of last government of nearly nine billion kuna, the discharging of units of local and regional self-government, unfortunately there was a Covid crisis and that there was no strong investment of the state in the private sector, I can't even imagine what would have happened. You were saying how much investment there was in your county. In my county, 2400 entrepreneurs used these measures, so somewhere around 16 thousand total employees of 150 million kuna. So, of course, I have to commend the government's rapid reaction, and surely we all expect that in the next six months we will have significantly better indicators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6907	Answer, Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6908	Thank you very much. I said in my statement that it would certainly be a reference year in 2020 if the coronary crisis hadn't happened, but let's be honest, if some things hadn't happened, 2 and 3 years before the question, the question of how to deal with this coronary crisis, so here, in the end, I can conclude as a man coming from the field, that there are certainly hundreds more that have to change to be what we're trying to be but we can't admit what individuals are and that's first of all, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Finance did in these difficult and challenging times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6909	Thank you. We're moving on with individual debates, Mr. Pavić is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6910	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear Deputy Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing exactly the implementation of the budget, but many of the things that have happened in the last 6 months are not recorded in these reports and should put into context all these figures that are in the context of the crisis in the context of the Croatian EU presidency. Let's just take the situation that the previous SDP government rating agency has crashed credit ratings several times, that the government of A. Plenkovic has tripled the credit rating, that this year has been confirmed, and it is not an accident, 3 years after the order of surpluses that we have had and many other tax reforms and reforms that have led to us showing that we have credibility in international financial circles and political circles. A lot of stuff that's happened in the last six months. They're just the result of that credibility. So the credit agencies just credit swap with the European Central Bank of 2 billion euros, or where we which state 15 billion kuna deposited, sent them, they gave us 2 billion euros are one of the same key reasons that we are able to keep credit ratings. Also, low interest and investor confidence go in that direction. The measures we have given as a state of protection for over 600,000 jobs, never greater in history but also the responsible spending of the budget where in the rebalancing budget is reduced by 8 billion kuna despite increased expenditures for COVID. the reputation we had and which we spent during the Presidency, and primarily as well as the then-resoring minister for EU funds where Croatia managed to obtain a crown response package in the European Parliament in a faster procedure, made it possible for the maximum flexibility of European funds. Someone asked here today, I think from the Bridge Club, that there's not a single euro left, that's not true. Over 400m euros in redistributed to protective equipment, all the protective equipment bought from China, 450m kuna, was paid from EU funds. Over a billion and 200 million credits. A billion and a half kuna of HZZ measures, so of the 6.7 billion kuna measures paid, over a billion and a half kuna is from the European funds and as we also heard from the SURE instrument that was supposed to be 100 billion euros, something is slightly smaller but Croatia instead of 400 million euros will receive a billion euros in power from it. Thus, this year, as Minister Maric said, is fiscally rounded and recognized by rating agencies, recognized by international institutions, recognised by partners. Employment if we remove seasonal employment is practically at the same level and unemployment has even fallen on today, 145 000 unemployed but 10,300 unfulfilled jobs. When we bring all this together, we see that the context and the fall in GDP, which Minister Maric said will be about 8% this year and the growth that is foreseen and the large funds that we will get from the Recovery Fund, of which we can expect from the addition of this financial envelope, the second tranche already next year and also the multiannual financial framework, 22 billion euros. When calculations were made, measures of support within the crown of the crisis were about a little less than 10% of GDP. I think only Malta had stronger support measures and that's what you can see. You can see in the preservation of jobs, you can see in economic activity, which is that the headquarters preserved the stability of public finances, it's saying enough that we've protected ourselves early enough to secure the tourist season, we've had one of the best tourist seasons in the Mediterranean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6911	Thank you, too. The first replica has a Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6912	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, you reminded me of the low interest rates. The fact is that the low interest rates have been on the market for a long time, since Mario was glad to say "whatever it takes" and his successor has continued the policy of the central bank and of the European one he has led, we have historically low interest rates on the markets, so let's be honest to the end, it is not the merit that Minister Maric, whom I greatly appreciate and also the Government of A. Plenkovic, but the situation in the capital market that has been going on for years and fortunately continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6913	Answer, here you go, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6914	Well, I'll agree that it's a situation on the capital market because the capital market has confidence in this government,.../Intruder Vucilovic, does not understand. Yes, there is the world, but it has confidence in this government and this minister, has confidence in three years of surplus, has confidence in the measures that we bring as a government and here in the Parliament and has confidence that we will be able to repay it, has confidence at 22 billion euros that we win. Not all Member States could have been so positively in debt, not all Member States had received loans from the EUR 2 billion loan mechanism before entering RM2 for several months, which was a positive signal to the financial market and precisely for the sake of this financial market and has confidence, so that I finally agree with you, but because of the government's results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6915	And Mr. Boric's second line and last.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6916	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavić we heard today, and you mentioned it in your debate, you looked back on that former government, and here we have a minister from that Kukuriku government, and they then interpreted to us that the fall could... grow, we admired it. Although three years in a row they've had deficits that they somehow took out in the last one and we're listening to their theories, what if they were and how they would have already solved it. The fact is that they repeated everything the President of the Republic said, that in fact today's rating was nothing, so it was in that time. We were in the trash and they said it was great, no matter how much we owed it wasn't up to them, but it was always up to someone else, etc. What we do is quite the opposite of them and so it was 2015, 2016 and 2020, and citizens see it because they simply can't understand that they keep repeating the same actions and expect citizens to respect them. He won't, not in this way, especially a fellow Bull or anyone else who contests what's important, which is that this government has what needs to have, which is the stability of the political system that generates what we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6917	Thank you. Mr. Pavić, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6918	Thank you very much. Well, I think you're right. The political stability that was created, the reforms and the smart policy the government has shown has led to all of this, has led to now confirming credit ratings, but has also led to three times the increase in credit ratings. The current president of the Republic, the then prime minister, had as many as I remember three times the collapse of the credit rating. There was a crisis, now there's a crisis, we have stability, we have secure finances, we have a round this financial year, we turn to the next one, we have the results of the presidency that have led to never greater amounts available to the Republic of Croatia, we have results from the SURE programme from which we will get not 400 million euros but a billion euros of credit, but cheap loans. Therefore, this is all about confidence in this government, and the results of the past government and other options have been rewarded by citizens in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6919	Time. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6920	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Honorable ministers with their associates. After this debate, mostly from fellow Pavic, I thought I'd give up because really the Croatian people are not even aware of which government is leading and how well they live. I would just say that the crown crisis, this report that relates to that period in one part, has essentially revealed all the bad policies in the last twenty years in the Republic of Croatia, all the bad policies, of self-sufficiency, of labour rights, of entrepreneurs, of all of the protection of national interests. Unless it's good for you to lead half the ministers, I don't know if you were, to be in Slovenia 9 upstairs, I guess you weren't playing chess. Your colleague Ćorić, I don't know if he was a colleague of Maric played chess, I guess that's what it was, I don't know whose money the escort girls were bringing in, and that's what the tribal talk about. Only that that money was extra- budgeted by Janaf, these, those that came and invested and tripled investment, that no competition was destroyed, such as your sponsors given jobs today would certainly not have 6% of GDP, and that the minister knows what I'm saying, 6% of GDP from our evicted people to third countries and from Slavonia. A little while ago, the former mayor, if I'm not mistaken, praised the headquarters, commended it. So in your Slavonia, if during the time they declared the crisis, the Bridge headquarters did not support and did not vote in favour of these measures, to allow the headquarters of such power in this way. If he squished a field of five acres from you five miles, 8,000 kuna fines. Al says Berosch, you can vote in the election, a little mask if you're in self-insulation or if you're sick. So taking away freedom, trying to take away freedom via cell phones. So your policies have revealed everything that's wrong, but that's the crown crisis really opened up. We're not self-sufficient. Never again has the Republic of Croatia given an incentive in agriculture, never, and we have never imported again and we are not self-sufficient. 700,000 hectares of raw agricultural land, only in my Dalmatia 200,000 hectares is unprocessed so it can feed 11 million people in Dalmatia, we're not going to talk about Slavonia. So your story in these lights, it's like you've never come to Slavonia or Dalmatia. Where did you come from? As far as extra budget funds are concerned, here is my colleague Sanader here, he walked down with the prime minister was the government and so, two years ago, you were also promised two billion kunas in the Split-Dalmatia County projects. Zero. You know how...? Zero, nothing, absolutely nothing, except what you just came before the election so you said the 150 million kuna Alignment Fund, but it's not this year it's gonna be next year because it's a pre-election year so they're gonna be down locally promising. There will be promises, bro, a triba to get a lot of rocks so I can make those promises empty. So you simply in this corona crisis have exposed all the bad policies. We won't talk about people who are forgotten. Here's an example, it promised when that session was held in Split to the workers of Dalmatia where their facility did not take over you promised to solve them. I brought them here, they were in the Parliament you didn't want to let them go to the workers, they weren't paid for their claims, they were hungry and thirsty without the living room worked for years, not today, and then they were promised to settle down the government's session in Split so they wouldn't be protested, promised to get rid of people, nothing. As far as the projects are concerned, I repeat the out-of- budget threads, the Sinjsko polje is irrigated, do you know how irrigated the agricultural surfaces in the Republic of Croatia are in the prominences and says the prime minister will be able to achieve if we reach 1% of the irrigation of agricultural land, so much for an ambitious self-sustainability project. This is a short time for me, but indeed for the presentation of colleagues Pavić, after the replica of Mr. Boric, I thought that we should all dance what we did as Mao Ce-tung or during Stalin who last agreed to clap this one to go into some case, I think amazingly, I don't know we are here folk representatives to tell the truth and nothing truth harms the minister, but the fact that of these promises more brothers brought it here. I don't know where your stomach comes from, so if you throw up sometimes, does your stomach rise when you look people in the eyes that emigrates the outside, their drawers can't feed, it's not meaningful. You're laughing. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6921	We have replicas of two. The first is Honourable representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6922	Thank you very much. Here's the Honorable Representative Bulj asked where we came from? So I'm going to say that this morning at half past five I left Slavonia to come here to Zagreb for a session of the Croatian Parliament and I live all the time in my neighborhood in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem and everything I said for this pay phone I said exactly, argued and exceeded. So, ask someone where the world comes from, I think it's not the same place or time, maybe for some, it's not the question of all the questions, and we can talk about agriculture, about the economy, about all the social topics that are related to Slavonia, Baranja, Srem, and finally about the Dalmatian Zagora or any part of Croatia. Therefore, I believe that every single person who utters the words here stands and should stand behind them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6923	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6924	Thank you, Lippa. I can only say that the structures and institutions that do not operate the structures of the deep state that run from Slovenia 5 and so on, robbed Croatian energy, see what happens to JANAF, INU what happens to our agricultural land that was in Agrokor. The minister could talk about it for three days if he has the will and three nights. So, look at our drinking water sources, look at what's up with our agricultural land, so look at all this together and you'll see that you're not talking, I know it's nice to come in a tie, in a suit, in a light, but it's not a real state. I live and now in the country, Suvaca and I visit the region of Dalmatia Zagora, my Cilu Liku, it's not like that, it's not like that when sidettes with workers of Dalmatia wine, Brodotrogira, Brodosplita, it's not like that, former workers of Dalmatia, former people who worked in agricultural cooperatives, combined, unencumbered agricultural land, and industry has been destroyed, and tourism is on Checi. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6925	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6926	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Bulj, so here's the opportunity to be with us in power, you went out just because you took down Minister Marić, you didn't take responsibility for running this country, and we have since agreed over 5 billion kuna for the Split-Dalmatia County. Many projects have been agreed, many projects are being implemented, some of them I started myself. I'd just say here's the "Wish" program, right out of Imotski, 6,000 employees of women in rural areas, low qualifications that could never get a chance, so whether we kept our promises or didn't say citizens. They've given us trust again, we've got government again, you're in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6927	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6928	You as a commercial traveller of good perfume and expensive wine in the ministry have explained it very well and have done very well, and as far as participation is concerned, the only parliamentary representative since the 1990s. The year that supported this government is the truth, which has not voted for the budget is me. Just because of false promises, which the minister can confirm, that it is.../incomprehensible/... that I did not support as the only parliamentary representative of the majority I did not vote on the budget, for the budget did not know it by my colleagues from the club and I will always repeat this and I will always repeat it, everything you promised these billions don't lie to my people, don't lie to my people, you're just liars, you said 2 billion kuna projects, the fast road Sinj-Kukuzovac, absolutely nothing, absolutely. So, the one thing that you've done for us is you're out of your mind... by the river Cetina and the harmful projects, and that's probably what you've been to Slovenian 5 this 9th, so you've probably been hanging out too, so you've got this good story and you've got a good one. Smile, good and greasy smile. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6929	We've completed an individual discussion with this. Next is the debate, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome the distinguished representative Grozdana Perić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6930	Thank you very much, Vice President. I call on Article 238. You should have reacted because in this way how my colleague Bulj insults his colleague Pavić is embarrassing, he cannot say in this way something that is unargumented, especially on a personal level how he does it and I think it was really necessary to react in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6931	Here's another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6932	Well, an esteemed colleague hurt Article 238, because she thinks she's the Honorable president so that you and I can write what I'm going to say to her, and she can't. So there's nothing for me to write... I've said what I think and I'll say what I think every time. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Everything you promised, 2 billion kuna for Dalmatia, zero kuna is invested, zero kuna, and that's true, everything else is a lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6933	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning before warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6934	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6935	Final debate on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6936	I would like to thank the chairman, Minister Maric and his associates, colleagues and colleagues. We've heard a lot of things now, there's been a lot of focus on headquarters, the work of headquarters, I wouldn't look too much at it, and the prime minister himself said they were a political body. Just because I'm from Osijek-Baranja County, I have to point out that this headquarters, although greatly praised here, has violated the fundamental human rights of the Charter of Human Rights, the right to family, the privacy of family life is something that is guaranteed, it's part of the Lisbon Treaty, and drones above the city that have seen residents are definitely violating human rights, so that's why they were first, but I'm not going to go too far on headquarters and about it. The Slavonia project was also mentioned. I'll tell you what it looks like in Nasice because I live there, so here's nothing I'm making up but a concrete example. There's a crossroads, a new asphalt, a traffic light, everything works, everything at the entrance to the city. Now I hear there's going to be another dig, so there's going to be a roundabout, although it's working, there's no need, but there's that, and there's going to be some big millions that are being mentioned. But let's get back to the state budget. For the first six months, there has been an observation that extensive construction and material, can't be less, let's be realistic. Whether certain items could be more transparent, maybe they could, but then we'll have even more material than we have now, but the budget is that way and there's no big philosophy there. A colleague named Lalovac referred to the situation in 2008, meaning when this last financial crisis was, and the fact is that the EU then had a policy of saving, cutting, and now has a liquidity policy that is significantly different from that savings policy. And they led what they are, what the Central Bank did in America, and the fact is that the crisis is significantly shorter if we have such an official policy and that's right now, but the question remains, of course, what if the EU takes back that policy it had in 2008. There were also mentioned pensions, that a lot of money comes from the pension budget because it doesn't collect enough and that's one question that will be present without further ado. Without increasing employment, without an increase in wages, the issue will not be solved in the long run. We also say that at the level of employment and the number of jobs preserved, etc., I don't know today Governor Boris Vujčić said on the day of the big plans that we lost 50,000 jobs, so you must agree who is telling the truth, Governor Vujčić or someone else. The fact is that this crisis hit the service sector greatly, and that the decline in industry and trade exports was significantly milder. And we constantly advocate reforms, we keep saying that some things need to be changed, re-industrious is definitely the way we need to go in order to be more resilient to some of the next hits, which we'll be realistic about. And I'm going to quote Governor Vujčić a little more, he said today that economic recovery is on the move, but a return to the pre-crisis situation could be slow, unequal and uncertain. This is one warning that tells us that when making the budget for next year we have to take care of the spending party because if we see that we have now come to the level of 2005. Then I'll just say that the expenditures were then 87 billion kuna, and this year there are 147 billion kunas planned, and these are the things to be taken into account, as well as that VAT reduction on agricultural products that are announced, and we see that prices are not reduced but that the prices are rising. If this is a measure that needs to be implemented, you can go some other way, stay to see. I'm just going to say that we're not going to support this, from the Homeland Movement, this report, because we think that the spending party could have been significantly different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6937	Next final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6938	Thank you very much. I'm sorry the minister has... A few questions, eventually leaving, may have felt that I could ask whatever a few questions about Agrokor, but good. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I would say at the end what I said and in an individual debate. The crown crisis is, here he is back,... Question. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The crown crisis is, come down, the crown, free, don't, behind the pole. The Corona crisis has exposed all the bad policies, and this minister has denied one time and the prime minister that 6% of GDP was before the crown of the crisis from our evicted people and no one in the EU has such a GDP ratio as Croatia. 6% of GDP, 20 billion kuna, was GDP, and this affects our budget as well. That's what it's all about. No country in the world has moved so many of its people and then boasted about economic growth, and we've basically lost our workforce so that today we can pass the Foreign Law, so we don't have a quota at all, so let's get everyone in, now that we've moved our people out, of course we don't have any more quotas. As far as our policy itself is concerned, look at the relationship to energy. Look at this wind power plant, look at Janaf, look at our agricultural land that is located, it was partly located in Agrokor, now who knows whose hands it is, look at our sources. So we don't use our potentials and resources, and this government didn't have much courage, it didn't have the courage, for example. to declare our international right, dear counterpart Pavic, our international declaration of an exclusive economic belt, against which you have voted. And that's our international right. While the Italian fleets are destroying our flora and fauna, they literally defend the submarine and have added value. Italian fleets in our territory. So we didn't have the strength. So in the budget, just as numbers to speak, you've come very well at the time of the headquarters and the headquarters, I repeat again, for which the Bridge as a club did not vote to give him such powers. And what Bačić's godfather and Seks decided to the Constitutional Court that he was working under the Constitution, is, as if in Slovenia 9, you were often, this one, as if they had agreed there, and probably had agreed there, along with Stipe Mesic, Milanovic, your colleagues, did. So we here when we talk about the budget that we need to talk about what is currently being achieved. In my Dalmatian burn, you absolutely didn't invest anything. Zero, Your Honor, Prime Minister. Here, my colleague Sanader will confirm that. Fast road to Sinj, nothing, laugh, nothing. They promised workers at the time to prevent the workers of Dalmatia who did not exercise their right, pays that you would solve their problem, you did not solve the problem. In fact, again the other day, these poor workers who haven't been paid to have bread, they protest again. You didn't let them enter the Parliament. Irrigation of the Sinj field. Well, it's very simple. If we were to quote Sinjsko polje, our producer would be a competitive agricultural producer, but no, you never give any more incentives, but to those who absolutely don't know what a cow is, which is a pomidora. You give me incentives, as Josepha Rimac dealt with through the Ministry of Agriculture in Grazac to her cousin or to whom. Give incentives to people who don't know, dear Minister Pavic, if you know what a cow looks like, how many cows do you know? You should know that already if you're from Imotsky how many cows have tits, 4. So we have at this point, but you're laughing, but you've funded your campaign. Those who raise motives, of which the tribune has a peasant, where I live, to remain his diet, it makes sense to you. You as gravediggers who have done graves to Croatian people who have done more damage to these areas, to 2/3 of Croatia, Lika, Gorski Kotar, my Dalmatian Zagora, which is not funny. Well, you don't have to come two days before the election and tell the Cetina province 150 million kuna, 200 million kuna to the Imot province, and you know it's a lie, that it's a lie. And I asked you the other day where your money was, and you say, that's for 2021, you know why? Because it's an election. So, colleagues Vucilović,... This asphalting, they'll dig asphalt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you have pre-elections, here to take out the cube in my Dalmatian Zagora, you see exactly the election cycles as they pave. He'll now pave in pre-election time, it'll be asphalt, he won't have a di chicken piled up to the stake. There, that'll work. [[Intruder: Time, time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's a delusion of these authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6939	The next final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU, the esteemed representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6940	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here, all of our calculations are marked by some kind of crisis, this one is marking us with a coronary virus crisis. For 30 years now, our budget problems have been at fault, and for the next 30 years, it will seem to be the coronary virus. Unfortunately, the problems with the budget are obviously our reality that will follow us for a long, long time, and that we have 3 Minister Marić, to compromise them into one, I don't think we would have been able to solve these problems that exist in Croatia. I'm going to base myself a little more on agriculture because in this execution it's said that 58% of the execution is in the agricultural section. It is said that we have increased this, we have increased that, but the basic question for both the former budget and this budget is better for Croatia's agriculture. The answer is no. She's in a worse place than she's ever been. So we haven't achieved by budget or budgeting anything to improve the situation in agriculture. Did we solve the issue of state agricultural land? We didn't. Have we resolved the issue of unfair commercial practices for agricultural products? We didn't. Have we resolved the issue of non-transparent and unfair distribution of EU funds in agriculture? We didn't. Have we solved the negative trade balance in agriculture? We haven't solved it. We've lost fruit growing, vegetables, milking, pig farming, the only branch that works for us in agriculture is warfare. But not thanks to the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and those before this and the Ministry of Agriculture, but because warlords sell their products to Italians and Italians give a relatively correct price, so that our warriors are still the only ones who can live, and in order to be a warrior and to survive, you must have a certain amount of agricultural land. Unfortunately, we're destroying the woods with excessive cutting. The leak from the Croatian forests is all over the place. 2 million and 340 thousand cubic metres of hulls were sold at auction for this year. And you know how much our finalization is? 0.67%. Only 0.67% of us finalize. Who reads cream from Croatian oak and Croatian trees? Someone outside, the Italians, the Austrians, the Hungarians, we even export the cut. But here we were also witnessing that when the cutting truck turns over, the logs fall out, and that is the problem of the Croatian forests that no one solves, and we all know how to trade with logs in the Croatian forests. There's a leak of money that could help us reduce employment, in the problem of these crises, so we're not even with this budget. These executions moved nowhere. Obsolete tax debts to the state. Well, we had a colleague here recently who owed more than 600,000 kuna, he was paid by the state, he was in debt to the state, and at the end of that, the debt went out of date. Unfortunately, not everyone can do that for the Republic of Croatia. We haven't solved the problems of the completed, the blocked, the poor, the pensioners who survive, and the heads of the words mentioned here are the crowns and the headquarters. Well, even today here we're hiding behind these masks that I can bet on, most of you don't believe in protecting but someone said we have to wear masks and we wear them like sheep here, I don't know why we're poisoning ourselves. Instead of seeking the Swedish model that proved to be the best in this crisis and proved it, we saw that when they gave in to all those measures from the beginning of the headquarters, that the economy had lived and that nothing terrible had happened but, I think that the coronary virus still attacked the most Croatian finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6941	The next individual debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6942	The people who are watching this, I can just say don't think you're out of your mind, you're not doing well in spite of HDZ stories, you really need to diagnose the problem, because it's also true that many who are now criticizing the government would really do what the government is doing right now. At least according to what they said in the debate. The root changes are not mentioned but should therefore be said that filling the budget is at risk not only because of the COVID -19 crisis but also tax reforms that contribute to the richest, root changes that would really benefit the social majority would first address the problem that can be solved, which is tax policy. Here, a lot has been said but nothing about the analysis of the impact of tax reforms that have been carried out with the reason that the deficit in the budget will produce great positive effects on the economy, only the richest ones need to earn money. This year, the taxing system of profits has changed where the amount of income from 3 to 7.5 million kuna is increased to pay a lower tax rate of 12%. This applies to an additional 10 000 taxpayers, or a total of 93% of the taxpayers, to a lower rate than 12%. Otherwise, even in the first wave, the profit tax was reduced from 20 to 18% and to 12% for small entrepreneurs up to 3 million kuna and then the fourth wave increased the threshold of small entrepreneurs 7.5 income and in the fifth wave the rate goes from 12 to 10%, what is now announced. Such a reform is undertaken on a wave of fairy tales that economic liberals spread in the media that in us allegedly profit tax is high but if VAT is indeed one of the highest taxes in Europe, capital tax is only one of the lowest taxes in Europe, only Norway and Hungary have a higher VAT than we do, Denmark has, as we do and profit tax only has lower Ireland, Cyprus and Romania. So we have a very low profit tax. Also, countries that have more tax rates, the fact is that they are richer and vice versa. For example, if our goal is to reduce tax rates for the richest, consider Macedonia. Macedonia, which as a good student, has reduced capital taxes which is very good on the famous Doing Business scale, has one of the highest unemployment rates, over 50% of people do not have heating. High taxes obviously do not interfere with foreign trade chains, hotel chains, chains, banks and teleopers who regularly make profits every year in their home countries that could be reinvested in the development of our economy. Have you ever heard of foreign investors complaining of high taxes when the Zagreb airports, the Istrian highways, are, say, given in concessions? Have you heard that someone complained about high taxes when Pliva or Croatia were sold insurance and many other major state-owned companies? Of course you're not because foreign large-scale capital knows that it can make a very good profit out of the state with such a low capital tax. In this direction, capital and retail bourgeoisies are radicalised and that the highest income tax reduction for those who have the highest incomes has been reduced to two in three times, the highest tax rate has been abolished from 40% and in the remaining two classes has been reduced in the first to 24 and the second to 36, and in the announced fifth wave, the rate will be reduced to 20% and 30%, respectively. These changes increase regression as the tax burden of the less wealthy is relatively increased. For example, those with incomes above £30,000 will receive the highest, for example, those who have about €25,000 in gross wages will receive about 1,500 raises. Those who have less will get less, a hundred kunas. So, in us such tax reform that pleases the richest empty register on behalf of some bet in the future that these entrepreneurs will after they settle down, so-called. Trickle down system, secure well-paid jobs for most. It's actually a fundamental problem and this report demonstrates it. Therefore, this is not a development budget and this report shows this because it agrees with a created wrong public picture manipulated by domestic economic liberals who assures us that Croatia is the country with the biggest taxes and that this is one of the main reasons for economic lagging which is simply not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6943	Time. The next final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6944	Thank you very much. Here's after this midterm, I have a few more sentences to say, and in favor of what's going on and what happened in this period, in this half-year. In fact, many colleagues on our left all of what had been before, and what had happened, were also contracted on concessions, and various, given guarantees and so on, which were obviously not important at the time because it was, they counted on it to be run by another government, some other ministers, and then it was very benevolently given. However, when all that is happening now is to be recognised, which is the fact that it is happening all over the world, and what cannot be avoided by the Croatian state, nor by the Croatian budget, then it is the stigmatisation and calling of only this government which is not to be expected, but it is always necessary to tell the truth as it is, in all of this, that when you look at one, one U.S., who has lost over 40 million jobs compared to us who at this point have only 100, about 150,000 people, then we must certainly be satisfied with what has been done in this period, how jobs have been preserved and how businesses have been taken care of, and about employees. I will single out here, although I have taken all that we have done in the previous term, which all the benefits and laws we have passed to improve the situation for both employees and citizens, here is just an example of subsidies in this half-year when we can see that more than €9.4 billion has been paid, which is more than 70%, there is a demanding labour market policy paid, plus subsidies in agriculture, which some colleagues are very happy to mention, and that is 2.7 billion kuna for direct payments is 1.6 billion kuna, of which 993 million are from European Union funds, and over 610 million from national funds. Also, 905 million kuna has been paid for the rural development programme in the first half, out of which around 800 million and 106 national million kunas have been paid out of the European Union funds. Also, over 64.7 million kunas were paid for de minimis support programmes in the first term. In addition, it should be pointed out that traffic was taken into account where local self-government was taken into account and over 732 million kuna was paid for decentralised functions, and I also mention that for additional maternity leave and equipment for newborn children, 831 million kuna was allocated, which is more than 38.7 million more than in the same period in 2019, and let us not forget that this budget base from 120% raised to 170% of budget bases, so 5,654,00 kuna. An allowance for children who were also made with 641 million kuna. So, in addition to all the difficulties, with all the problems, each segment has been taken care of and that is what needs to be mentioned, and that the situation is different, and I believe that this year too would have a significant surplus and significant reduction of public debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6945	With this, we've completely exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. Let's go to the next item of the agenda, that is: - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of other Parties to the preparedness and prevention initiative in the catastrophes for South-Eastern Europe on the arrangements of the host country for the secretariat of the preparedness and prevention initiative in disasters for South-Eastern Europe, second reading, P.Z. Number 23. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Pursuant to that Article of the Rules of Procedure, the laws which are confirmed in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts shall, as a rule, be adopted in one reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6948	The Honorable Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Madam Representatives and the Gentlemen Representatives. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of other Parties to the Initiative for preparedness and Prevention in disaster prevention for South East Europe and on arrangements for non-accessaries for the Secretariat of the Initiative. For the past 20 years, the Republic of Croatia has been a full member of the preparedness and prevention initiative in disaster prevention for Southeast Europe in March 2000, as part of the Third Work Table of the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe with the aim of strengthening regional cooperation in the field of disaster prevention and preparedness. In accordance with the signed memorandum on the institutional framework of this initiative in Sarajevo on 28.11.2013, which was ratified and currently in force in the Republic of Croatia, this confirmation law was published in National No. 6 of 2014, the initiative passed into the regional ownership of 10 Member States, and the lead role of the donor was shifted from donor to Member States. The initiative is attended by representatives of national protection and rescue services of the next 10 countries, such as Albania, BiH, Bulgaria, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia, Romania, Slovenia, Serbia, Turkey and Croatia. The Republic of Croatia and the countries participating in the disaster preparedness and prevention initiative have mutual interests in mutual cooperation in the area of prevention or mitigation of the consequences of natural and civilizational disasters, in particular the re-change of information and training related to the planning and implementation of measures to protect against earthquakes, floods, fires, pollution of seas or waters of radiological hazards and industrial disasters. The parties' co-operation so far in the framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative was achieved through the programme of disaster management training, working meetings and participation in courses, seminars and conferences. It is the disaster management training programme that is the key activity of this initiative in which Member States participate by creating 10 concrete training activities in each year in the area of preparedness and prevention. To date, the Republic of Croatia has translated 30 of such specific trainings and activities, including special emphasis on disaster risk reduction workshops for primary and secondary school directors, a total of 5 workshops between 2014 and 219 with a total of 100 trained members from Member States with the aim of reducing the risk of disasters. Then, training of members of the fire departments from BiH, Macedonia and Montenegro from 2015 to 2018 to rescue from fires from vehicles in a car accident and to shut down fires from air, a total of 35 trained, trained students in these three categories. In accordance with this memorandum, each Member State shall pay an annual membership fee of EUR 25,000, which shall finance the work of the Secretariat of this initiative and the activities of the training programme of which I have mentioned. The agreement regulates the work of the Sarajevo-based secretariat, which is why BiH is their council of ministers and depositary of the agreement. It therefore regulates the legal status of the secretariat in order to enable the effective performance of operational duties and tasks. There are different issues such as staffing, immunity or privileges, exemptions, tax payments and other activities. Negotiations on this agreement lasted longer because the agreement should have been acceptable to all Member States. The Agreement does not require the adoption or amendment of existing laws but is subject to confirmation under Article 18. Laws on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. This law would therefore confirm the agreement in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6949	Thank you very much. We are going with the club representatives, the first respected representative of Nino Rasudiæ on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6950	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, let me immediately say that for the Most Representatives Club this law is unacceptable, I will argue this with two basic issues. The first is the framework of this merger itself which is completely unclear and I would say contrary to the geostrategic interests and aspirations of the Republic of Croatia, and the second is about the absolute surplus and uselessness of that office, which we will pay EUR 25,000 a year for being completely thrown away, the money thrown away. What's this about? DPISEE i.e. An initiative for preparedness and prevention in disasters for Southeast Europe has been created within something called SEECP, which is the process of co-operation in Southeast Europe. The process was launched in 1996, the basic charter was adopted in 2000, the Republic of Croatia has been a participant and formally since 2004. In 2007, Hido Biscevic became chief secretary of the regional co-operation council. Within this story, the framework includes countries of the former Yugoslavia plus Albania, plus Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey. Now I wonder why Hungary is not here, and is Turkey? Why we're doing some kind of framework, it's perfectly understandable for me to do some kind of framework for better coordination, perhaps in natural disasters. But what is the natural disaster in which we care that we are connected to Turkey, and we are not with Hungary? Or that we're with Macedonia and we're not with Italy? Itd., etc. So I see all of this on the trail of one push again in a political framework that is being fought that it is a region or our spaces, Southeast Europe, etc., fully devising this intention of fighting together and preventing and natural disasters, the fact that they are not our northern and western neighbours, while Southeasternly doing so goes to the border of Turkey and Iran, that area in which we are, in common, fighting natural disasters. That's what this connection is about. We see in the articles of this document that the office, the secretariat, it de facto already works in Sarajevo, where the Head of Secretariat and staff has immunity, do not pay the BiH tax, have diplomatic tables, de facto diplomatic status. If we open their pages, page dppi.info let's see what this office does and how they protect us, prevent us from possible natural disaster and facilitate the handling of these natural disasters if they happen, the first sentence we find is the following, quote. Human and economic losses due to natural disasters continue to increase and remain an obstacle to sustainable development in Southeast Europe. Is this some area of monsoon where every year natural disasters destroy the entire economy so that these disasters that this office of three people in Sarajevo will prevent and resolve their consequences, in order to be able to resiliently break down the countries of Southeast Europe, I think this is an insult to common sense and an insult to taxpayers who are expected to pour 25 thousand euros a year into this completely pointless... Sarajevo office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This whole story about so, we Google away, of course, there's nonsense, for example, on page 3 of this document in Art. 2 something is said about regional ownership, regional ownership, similar, total ambiguities and nebuloses, calculus, obviously bad from English. We heard, conferences, courses, seminars, but where did this office show up in practice? If the flood occurs, which is the problem and so far bilaterally heard from colleagues in Serbia or Hungary who do not have here or if the fire crosses the borders of Croatia and BiH without problems and so far, cooperation goes. We do not have to pay for a surplus office in Sarajevo that does nothing and we do not have to push ourselves into one framework, I repeat, in which Turkey is not Hungary and Italy or Austria. In the background of all this, and we see it on the dppi.info site in their official office, and it points to UN conferences on reducing the risk of disasters. And the key to everything seems to be next. Climate risk management in the context of sustainable development. The ministry, therefore, is said to study ore in a waste of time. So, I will repeat in conclusion, because of the problematic framework of integration, it is the former Yugoslavia + further down Turkey and Albania, because of the complete lack of the office in Sarajevo that we should pay for, and it is unclear in practice what and how it works, for the Mosta Club it is totally unacceptable to accept such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6951	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6952	... The Parliament, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Dear Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to briefly refer to this Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Council of Ministers and the Government of other parties of the Initiative for the preparedness and prevention of disasters for Southeast Europe on the engagement of the host country for the secretariat of the initiative for preparedness and prevention of disasters for Southeast Europe. With the goal of strengthening regional cooperation in the field of disaster prevention and preparedness, the Republic of Croatia has been a member of the initiative for preparedness and prevention in disaster prevention for Southeast Europe for 20 years. The institutional framework of this initiative is the Memorandum of Understanding for the preparedness and prevention of disasters for Southeast Europe signed and ratified by Croatia. Thus, the Republic of Croatia, with other countries, has properly addressed the issues of mutual co-operation within the initiative for preparedness and prevention of disasters for Southeast Europe. The basis for the conclusion of this agreement is in the provisions of the memorandum, drawn up in Sarajevo in 2013, the parties to the agreement are the Council of Ministers of BiH as a representative of the state of the host state of the Sarajevo-based secretariat and the Council of Ministers of Albania and the governments of Montenegro, Croatia, Romania, Northern Macedonia, Slovenia, Serbia and Turkey, as representatives of the countries of the preparedness and integration initiative for Southeast Europe. The conclusion of this Agreement continues with good cooperation between the Member States of the initiative aimed at the successful implementation of the secretariat's mission through the effective performance of operational duties and tasks of the Sarajevo and BiH-based secretariat as depositary of the Agreement. The agreements shall regulate the comprehensive work of the secretariat, the duties and obligations of the countries, the depositary countries, as well as the membership of the participating states. The agreement was drawn up in Ankara on 4 April 2018 and signed in Sarajevo on 4 July the same year. Historically, the agreement was drawn up on the basis of an initiative to prepare and prevent disasters for Southeast Europe, and the initiative stemmed from the co-operation process in Southeast Europe, an organisation established by Albania, Bulgaria, the Helen Republic, Northern Macedonia, Romania, Serbia and Turkey in 1996. The organisations subsequently joined BiH, Croatia, Moldova, Montenegro, Slovenia and Kosovo. For the purposes of this Agreement, no new laws or amendments to existing laws shall be required, and additional financial resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia shall be required, but shall be subject to confirmation by art. 18. Laws on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. This law confirms the agreement in order to make their provisions within the meaning of Article 1(1) of the Treaty. 141. The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. HDZ will support this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6953	Thank you. Next is the Party's representative club with the name and last name, Smart and GLAS, the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6954	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. It is not disputed that the Government is an authorised proponent of this law, it is not disputed that according to the Rules of Procedure to be confirmed, which confirm international contracts are adopted as a rule in one reading. Nor is it disputed that this agreement is designed on the basis of co-operation between the BiH Council of Ministers and the governments of those member states of the disaster prevention initiative in Southeast Europe. I'm not going to trouble this much with the content and text of this draft itself. I'm going to do something else, and that's a provision. 99 Constitution. I have spoken of this in this Croatian Assembly several times. Therefore, that provision provides for the President of the Republic and the Government to cooperate in the design and implementation of foreign policy. I ask this House, does Croatia have foreign policy? What is its content in relation to countries in the environment, in relation to our neighbours, in relation to individual international groups or any other international initiative. Our problem is not that we are numerically or territorially small, our problem is that we are unable to define what we want to achieve and what our foreign policy priorities are. Unless HS and SS representatives know what the real background and content of this Agreement is or how it was designed, who was involved in this, whether there was indeed a co-creation of foreign policy between the president of the state and the government, how much of our foreign policy can our citizens know about it. What I'm talking about is taking place in a whole series of examples that come up in public from time to time as new affairs. Whether it's about the trip of former President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic to the United States or the trip of the current president to Albania. It cannot be determined whether it was an official or private journey and whether the taxpayers' funds spent for this purpose were justified or not. So, if we don't know what our foreign political positions are, if we don't know what the foreign policy objective is, my question is, how can we monitor and control the process, whether the executive authorities are acting in accordance with their tasks and whether they are doing the role they play by citizens and days. Especially with regard to BiH, it may be most visible how there is no clear view of what RS policy will be and what we want to achieve there. I must admit that of all the opportunities we had to see in the past recent period, I was left with the last visit of the Prime Minister in September this year, BiH. I didn't hear any particularly significant foreign policy messages that would maintain the position of the Republic of Croatia, but I heard something said at a joint press conference with the head of the HDZ in BiH, with Mr. Dragan Cicovic. At that time, our Prime Minister praised the success of the recently held parliamentary elections thanks to the votes coming from the country. So it is the interest of the political party HDZ, not the interest of the Republic of Croatia. It's about time we made a distinction here. We also need to take care of all this when we are discussing such bill proposals. As I was saying, it's high time this House did the same thing. 99 The Constitution and finally to say that we will define our foreign policy positions whether it is a neighbouring state or an international association.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6955	Next is an individual debate, Honorary Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6956	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, when we discuss and read this document, we ask ourselves in our Croatia, in foreign policy any sense, so when we talk about very important things and these are natural or elemental disasters, so you ask how it is possible that Hungary is not there, bordering with us, in a large part of its border, that BiH is naturally Serbia, C. Gora, Slovenia. But where did Turkey come from, from Bulgaria, from Romania? I know when Dinar burns in Dalmatia, then the contact is between the BiH Ministry and the Ministry here in Croatia, it is handled in this way, as clear as I am aware, and we often have these fires from BiH and essentially come from BiH to the side of Croatia, it is in the area of this work and Republika Srpska and these other parts where the fires come uncontrollably. But what is the meaning of this document? Here on behalf of the HDZ club, a colleague says she has signed these climate disasters, threats that can wait for Croatia with Moldova and we do not have Hungary. Can anyone explain why we sign these threats with Moldova if there is a threat in Moldova, we can help as a state or vice versa, but our priority is to sign it with our border state, that's Hungary. Italy. We're here in the same area, the same threats await us, we're closest. We are neighbours, rather than some Balkan pub extended, now another theory extended down with Albania, Turkey, Romania and Bulgaria. Di will be the elemental disasters, what is the link between this work and that Hungary does not have an agreement on elemental disasters or threats, as the three sentences are often cited. So I don't see that from the point of view of security, the reaction to any kind of threat that we have contact with, perhaps from the HDZ Club, I can explain it better, or you, the esteemed secretary. Can you explain what we have with Moldova, here is even mentioned that Moldova is going in and why it would be in Sarajevo, we pay someone, well said counterpart Rasdic, and I support that, 25 000 euros from someone's office? So we and our opportunities to co-operate with BiH in a way that needs to be co-operated, I mean, I can't understand here, means simple healthy logic, I can't accept this at all, this is illogical, who put together these contracts, pre-contracts, agreements, what kind of relationships we have and links I repeat, Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey, Turkey and that we don't have with Hungary in terms of elementary disasters, you need to give me a good sense of that because you are insulting all the council representatives here with this proposal and all the people, I mean, our people, taxpayers. The whole people. I would once again, here in the end, just point out that the mentioned foreign policy, of course that foreign policy is very important but from this it is seen that foreign policy is not important, so we see in C. Gora that the Croats have lost their representatives in the assembly, in Serbia they have lost, in BiH they are a constituent people, they are reduced to everything so that they are mocked by Bakir Izetbegovic, that even at local levels they will set up their representatives, Croatian diplomacy on this silence, Croatian diplomacy is absolutely nothing to do except what they need to do as voting machinery when they go down there with elections, that is the only thing they do very good, but where HDZ manages disastrously that area, however, I obviously hope that the people of the valley will choose one option that will protect the exclusive and only the interests of the Croats in BiH, so even in Serbia we have no representatives of the Croatian legislation, and we do not agree with the Croats, so we do not agree with the Croats, so much with the Croatian people, that we agree with the Croats, and that we agree with the Croatians, and that we do not agree with the Croatians, and that we agree with the Croatians, and that we agree with the Croatians, and that we agree with the Croatians, and that we agree with the Croatians, and that we agree with the Croatians, and that we agree with the Croatians, and that we agree, and we agree with the Croatians, and we agree with the Croatians, we agree with the Croatians, and we agree with the Croatians, we agree with the Croatians, and we agree with the Croatians, we agree that we agree that we agree with the other. With Italy said not to declare an exclusive economic belt, in the Adriatic for good relations with Italy, but this agreement is a pure mockery with a healthy logic of the Croatian people. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6957	Thank you. The next individual debate is a respected representative of Radoje Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6958	... We are discussing here today a law of a long name but we are essentially discussing the establishment of an initiative to combat disaster prevention in Southeast Europe. [[Specially enabled.]] I wouldn't go in as we came from these signatories, that's what the introduction said that in what way and in the name of the Mrs. Crescent's club. Busic, but I think it is necessary to adopt this law today, not today but this week, in order for this secretariat to work and not be the result of the work of this secretariat, as Mr Rasdic said, so that it could function fully and achieve the objectives that have been proclaimed by the disaster prevention initiative in Southeast Europe. In fact, we have all witnessed in recent years the many disasters that have unfortunately hit Croatia and neighbouring countries here. Just remind yourself of the great floods that have hit us, enough to remind ourselves of the fires that have hit us, enough to remind ourselves here is the earthquake that has recently hit the Republic of Croatia, Zagreb and its surroundings, and not to mention the disaster that has hit us with the pandemic of the coronary virus, whose consequences are still difficult to imagine what it will all be, both in human terms and in material terms. From all these disasters, I think it is more than clear, that the irreplaceable role of the national states in preventing these disasters, combating and the system must work from local communities to the state, but I also think it is clear to all of us that these, this prevention, the effective consequences of disasters cannot be taken into account by one state without cooperation, without passing on good practices, without timely information, without and coordinating certain things, especially among neighbouring countries, the consequences of disasters cannot be effectively prevented and in the event of disasters effective action. In the end, hoping that we will adopt this bill, I hope it will be our contribution that all future disasters that will affect us have fewer consequences for the lives of people, and for the material damage of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6959	We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6960	Thank you very much. A colleague... Preventions are mainly from major disasters and cooperation is something that is positive, however, as you explain that Moldova is involved here, that Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Turkey is involved, and that Croatia has not included with Hungary here, which is the neighbouring country, but with Italy or Austria, but has pushed us absolutely where we do not have a general geographical connection, it is good co-operation with everyone, but it is Croatia's priority to co-operate on prevention with its neighbours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can you explain to me what kind of link Moldova and Croatia have, or Croatia and Turkey in terms of natural disasters and prevention with regard to Hungary which is not in this agreement, or Italy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6961	So I repeat again, this initiative came from the Stability Pact and I know how the process went, and I explain it... which states are signatories, and of course no one prevents Croatia from making even stronger, better quality, better agreements with Hungary, and with Italy, both with Slovenia and with all others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have guidance, in the objectives, that one of the goals of establishing bilateral agreements that will make them clearer, more precise, more efficient to regulate this area, but no one is forced to make those agreements come together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6962	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6963	Your Honor, we are elected here as representatives of the people, we have certain responsibilities under the laws we adopt and which we do not bring. I repeat, this framework of integration is problematic, and I don't see why we don't need it with Moldova and Turkey, and not with Hungary and Austria. So you can't convince me here's the story of the Coronavirus season, so we'd rather have a normal neighborhood crossing of borders and tourists, not only from Hungary, Austria, Italy, but from the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland, but from Moldova and Turkey. If we are talking about seismic issues, and of course it is closer to Hungary or seismically that we are more related to Italy than to Moldova, there is therefore no excessive reason to sign this, no objection that it will protect us from disasters or help eliminate their consequences, especially considering what the Office itself is writing on its own pages and what phrases they use. So, I don't believe that the three people in Sarajevo that we're going to pay and we can pay a lot can help manage climate risk in the context of sustainable development.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6964	Time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6965	I can only repeat one of these again, so the countries of the signatories are the ones that this whole agreement came from the Third Table Stability Pact and all that my predecessors said. So again, so no one is stopping us from signing even more quality, better agreements with all our neighbours, and I think that, right now and responsibility, we are all responsible for passing the law, so I think, even as a responsible representative, I think that this law should be adopted in order for the consequences, I hope, here I come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, to have fewer possible consequences in both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6966	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Nevenko Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6967	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that the name of this law was somewhat vague, only by reading the previously signed documents, it made it clear to me that the content, the intensity, the goal. In this brief address, I will not discuss the articles of the Law itself, and I intend to tell me a few sentences about the need to adopt it. I come from Ljubusko, the southwest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the very border with the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, I will talk about the problems caused by this border to our fellow citizens from both sides of the border, and now about the point on the agenda and one on that disaster, the fires, the prevention and the fight against this disaster, which is often caused by man, the fires that often take place along the border, cross the border line. I won't say anything new if I say that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we haven't paid too much attention in recent times, invested more significant funds. Organizational fire is an exclusive obligation for us to the local community, so it is also understandable that poor equipment, human and human potentials do not satisfy, there are no quality programs, plans, especially no prevention programmes. At the same time, areas with a long-term dry season during the summer period, extremely high temperatures, fire, fire in border areas on non-accessible areas are a particular problem. Crossing people and equipment in these areas across the border is impossible, complicated, prevented, prevents timely reactions in general, fires are pirated, damage increases. The crossing of fire-fighting aircraft under current procedures takes at least 2 days. Unfortunately, there are almost no plans in this authority, no prevention programs. The same problem with other natural disasters is also in other areas of 1,000km of the long border with BiH. Remember the floods mentioned and the damage caused by these floods some 7, 8 years ago. The law that we have on the agenda today, aimed at prevention and preparedness, strengthening disaster management capacity, strengthening measures, preventing disasters, improving legislation and other regulations, strengthening bilateral co-operation, signing agreements among countries signatories of the memorandum. The aim is also to assess the quality of existing programmes to prevent the creation of a strategy and strengthen the capacity to increase education. If I look at the micro location where I come from and where I live, this law gives me the possibility of a better quality face-to-face with this natural disaster, their prevention and therefore less damage, so I think this law is welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6968	We have one replica, wait. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6969	My friend Barbara, I'm a witness to a fire, for example. on Dinara who comes from Croatia at the border to control it poorly but I don't think it's such a problem, that it can solve Croatia and Bosnia, but I'm not as clear as you representatives of the Croats from BiH, our diaspora, i.e. Our people we must, according to the Constitution, protect and defend, as you did not, see you talking here about Moldova, Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, and you did not as their representative manifest yourself on the closed borders of Vagnje, in Gabela,... At Arjan's and all that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't understand how you think this agreement will help resolve between BiH on the threat when the biggest threat is that everyone is going through your border crossing, Croatian and between BiH and in your part, all of them are going through, all of these migrants are illegal except for the Croatians. And you sit here in Parliament and support that Croatia co-operates on natural disasters and prevention about, with Moldova. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And you didn't protect your men down there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6970	Dear colleague Bulj, therefore, there were five people sitting in this assembly from Ljubusko before me, originally from Ljubusko, I am the first to be elected to this honorable home, who lives and will live in Ljubusko. You're wrong when you talk about borders, you're wrong when you talk about these measures, you're wrong when you talk about migrants.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6971	Thank you very much. You can leave. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6972	Thank you very much. A colleague injures Article 238, where he says I'm wrong about boundaries. I recently bowed down to the victims at Husa's pit, had to go to Aržano for 70 kilometers. So the Livnians have to get to Split, 70km longer than to open the Vaganj border. You all go through the border, except your neighbors are forbidden to go through these neighbouring borders.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6973	It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a warning. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6974	Thank you. So, on this topic, what we would like to emphasise is that several times in this House and also outside the Parliament, we have talked about the importance of civil protection and the need for greater investment in civil protection in Croatia and, in the need of investment in international co-operation in the field of civil protection. What we can express now as a regret is that, on the one hand, we are establishing international co-operation in the field of civil protection but on the other hand, the same objectives and interests, unfortunately, do not maintain our budget for this 2020, nor can we expect that according to the 2021 announcements. For example, just as one of the backbones of our foreign policy, we see cooperation in the field of civil protection if we had developed that foreign policy at all and if we really invested in what we consider to be priorities, which is strengthening helicopter emergency services, fire protection, and are being imposed in this area as leaders in the region and in the Adriatic area. So here we see that one, one area in which we can be highlighted and in which we should invest additionally and in some way position ourselves there. Why, the question has been raised several times, why countries like BiH, Serbia, Turkey or Moldova, and not EU member states, I think it is important here to mention that all of us who are members of the EU already have a common civil protection mechanism, it is called the European Civil Protection Mechanism and within it much more than these mechanisms are actually envisaged and this regulation exists as models of cooperation between Member States, so there is really no need for us to have bilateral agreements, for example with Hungary or multilateral with those countries with which we already have within the European Civil Protection Mechanism. We would point out once again that it is important to establish such mechanisms precisely with neighbours, especially neighbours who are not part of the EU, because, for example, with BiH, we have the largest land border of nearly 900km. A large part of that border is the river border and we have a constant high risk of floods that will be even higher in the years that are due to climate change. On the other hand, we have the issue of Dinarid as an area at risk of earthquakes. We have, therefore, a number of other particular issues of fire, a number of other risks we really share as common risks with all these neighbouring countries, and we know that the flood will not refuse to cross over to Croatia because there is a limit and because we are not receiving something from the countries of the former Yugoslavia or if the earthquake hits Montenegro, Dubrovnik and Stone will shake, or if there is a fire in BiH, there is a great chance that they will also move to the territory of Croatia. For this reason, yes, we support co-operation, we regret that we did not actually take this opportunity to have the secretariat and maybe be in Croatia and see this as an opportunity, as one of the niches in which we impose ourselves as leaders in the region, and we are also still sorry that we will continue to ask that what you have now expressed as an ambition in foreign policy and through, inter alia, through this Agreement, follow with budgetary allocations for civil protection for all citizens of Croatia, but of course in the part in which we want international cooperation. In this sense, we will continue to ask that your decision be changed when you abolished the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and.../incomprehensible/... civil protection or put everything under the Ministry of Internal Affairs, abolished an independent institution where we were actually independent of issues of civil protection in terms of autonomy, leadership, determination of objectives, etc., seen as an opportunity to develop this sector, while now, we see on the example of the Staff, which is highly politicised and by the decisions it makes, so we see what we actually get by eliminating this independence and putting it under the MUP, or under direct political control of the ruling structure. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6975	Dear Representative Tomislav Tomašević, individual debate next. You gave up Miro? And I'm sorry, I thought you were out. Replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6976	Thank you very much. My colleagues. It is reasonable that we have an agreement on the prevention of natural disasters and this with Montenegro and Serbia as well as Bosnia. But I don't understand, Slovenia. I don't understand how we have with Turkey and Moldova, Romania, Bulgaria, and we don't have with Hungary and Italy. It's our neighbouring countries and to prevent any natural disaster, these are our neighboring countries that are physically bound. And I don't understand what that logic is to say we're going to have this cooperation with Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey, Albania, now, it seems to me to Moldova, and with Hungary and Italy we won't. That's amazing. Then can you take your stand?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6977	Here, I'll try to answer that question by asking you a question. Do you think it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to expand its security interests, including civil protection in the area and countries other than the EU member states and in the areas covered by the Stability Pact? I'd say so. I would say that, given our economic strength, we don't have a lot of opportunities to spread our interests through imposing on an economic plan, and even unfortunately in those countries, but we have potential, we have potential if we had a normal government, if we had normal policies, if, among other things, we had an external policy, we would choose exactly those niches in which we have good human capabilities, which are both fire and police involved in a certain part of civil protection, and even the military when it participates in a certain part of civil protection. We have seen that we have capacities here and we believe that these capacities should be built and, through cooperation, actually in this field, spread what some interests of the Republic of Croatia are in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6978	Time. Next individual debate, distinguished MP Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6979	The colleague talked about this, briefly about the civil protection system in Croatia, and it could indeed be long and wide, and I think it was clear during the earthquake in Zagreb what our civil protection system is like, but also during some other natural disasters, that we are just beginning to build a civil protection system and that we have a lot of challenges and problems and as far as people who are willing to join as volunteers in the civil protection system and as regards preparedness and the coordination of state and units of local self-government. But what is certain is that these are 21st century themes and the future because the natural disasters, the natural disasters, unfortunately for those who believe in climate change, I hope that this is not a question of belief here in HS will only be more frequent and difficult. So, from that perspective, we have no choice but to prepare ourselves for ever greater natural disasters and consequences for society and the economy that these natural disasters will leave behind. This, if we talk specifically about climate change, can be both droughts and fires and tidal waves and floods. The floods we had, for example, in 2014 in the region, I will say in the region of Croatia, BiH and Serbia, that was exactly what they were, so in May 2014, it was seen that natural disasters were not interested in what countries were in the war or what relations they were in. I don't care who's in charge of what country and who's in opposition to what country. They are not interested in any other relations, but simply the flood was taking its geographical and hydrological course, and in this sense we also saw that the flood was being dealt with by Croatia, as it had dealt with Serbia, and we saw different responses to this flood, but I also think that it was impossible to actually fight natural disasters within a country, and in this sense, as far as Croatia needs any international cooperation, cooperation with all Member States of the European Union and so on with Austria, Italy, Slovenia through the Fund, that is, the Civil Protection Mechanism of the European Union, but we also need cooperation with those Member States that are not members of the European Union, these are, above all, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro as neighbouring countries for Croatia. Now this initiative is something that came about on the European Union's initiative in '99 when the Stability Pact came into being, correct me if I'm wrong. So the Stability Pact was created on the European Union Member States' initiative, in which all these countries that are specifically related to this initiative on natural disasters and secretariats in Sarajevo, except for one state, so there is also Moldova, Bulgaria, Romania, and Turkey, there are all other countries except one, Hungary. The only Hungarian who was a signator of the Stability Pact in '99, otherwise that same year is quite certain that, in fact, the Secretariat, let's call it the Stability Pact Secretariat in Sarajevo, so from that perspective, I don't see anything dramatic about this particular Secretariat for this initiative, because it's within the Third Table where it's involved, among other things and security, that it's also in Sarajevo, so from that, I don't see anything controversial here, but I see it as a continuation of one initiative. Now why Hungary, I would also like to know why Hungary of all these countries did not only agree to be in this initiative, whether in the meantime it was lost by the way or by Orban who is there in power does not want to participate in this initiative because it, I don't know, draws on some Southeastern Europe, regardless of whether it is the same with Europe and some South Europe, and Eastern Europe, and Western Europe, and the Mediterranean Europe, it is also one of the geographical regions in which Croatia belongs, and I don't see, I always advocate some, by a more directional foreign policy which is not only relying on one country, but simply going in all directions, nor by all the great forces that are trying to have good relations, and also with all neighbours, especially when it comes to topics such as fighting against natural disasters. So now that Orban has decided this because of his internal and foreign policy in Hungary that I, I must admit, I do not agree politically, it is them to ask, but I do not see anything controversial, I see it only as a continuation of the Stability Pact, that these countries are exactly the countries, and what we need most to be interested in here is, above all, what is the national interest are the actions of natural disasters with our neighbouring countries. These are, in addition to Slovenia, which, although a member of the European Union is also in this initiative, as it has been since '99, it is BiH, Serbia, and Montenegro, above all, and of course Hungary, and Italy if we look within the member states of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6980	Thank you. Final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the distinguished representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6981	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm afraid we've lost a little bit of sight of the measure we're talking about, we'll all agree that we need to establish cooperation with neighbouring countries and with countries with which we share threats, whether it's a danger of floods, so we're talking about water flows, whether it's some seismic directions or a major circulation of people in terms of pandemics that we're witnessing, it's not controversial, but we're not talking about it. We are talking today about the fact that we are today confirming the Law which will regulate some host country arrangements and the secretariat of the Initiative for preparedness and prevention of disasters for South East Europe, so we are talking about whether we are going to give 25,000,00 EUR of taxpayers to some office in Sarajevo where three or four people, who wrote as an introductory phrase of their actions, the next Monty Python sentence which I will repeat "human and economic losses due to natural disasters continue to increase and remain an obstacle to sustainable development of South East Europe", and these people would not be given a cent, and we have a responsibility to the citizens, and to the taxpayers not to direct and not to impose resources in completely meaningless offices and secrecy that will not contribute to any of their consequences, it is. I would say that we should in fact encourage perhaps a new initiative, an initiative where we could agree with Slovenia, Hungary, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Italy, perhaps even countries wider if we are talking about threats that could affect all these countries, and that if we do not need the Office, it may not be necessary, it is possible that some department in the foreign ministries of these countries can determine either civil protection or the Ministry of the Interior, depending on whether it is a fire or any kind of threat, to intensify this co-operation and coordination in such matters, but I do not see any reason why we are paying this pointless Office for something that limits the achievement of natural disasters, so a few dozen kilometers north of Croatia at the Hungarian border, and extends it there to the end of the Turkish border, so deep down to Iran, it is therefore the word that this draft law should be withdrawn and that these parties should no longer be taken into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6982	The next individual debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6983	.../The speech room was subsequently included/... otherwise here's colleague Rasdic said that some discussions missed the metric, I agree, they missed the metric but some discussions missed or did not exactly quote what was said, so I feel the need to do so somehow here in the final word on behalf of the Club to correct. Namely, my colleague Bulj quoted me several times, and so did you, Mr. Rasdic, that I said that Moldova was part of this Agreement, no, I didn't say that, only when I only spoke and gave one, one historical depiction, if that can be said, that Moldova and the Helena Republic, and some were part of some other processes that were before. Nothing else. Well, I'm so about the opportunity, here I am now going to say exactly what I am, to repeat myself. So the agreement that is drawn up, this agreement that we are talking about today, which is drawn up in Ankara on 4 April, which is Croatia, 2018, which Croatia signed in July that same year, is based on an initiative for preparedness and prevention of disasters for Southeast Europe that stemmed from a process for the cooperation of Southeast Europe, an organisation that was in 1996 and I said so myself. So it was founded in Sofia, and I will repeat it: R. Albania, R. Bulgaria, Helen Republic, R. Northern Macedonia, Romania, R. Serbia and R. Turkey. Afterwards, the organisation joined BiH in 2001, the Republic of Croatia in 2004, R. Moldova in 2006, Montenegro in 2007, R. Slovenija in 2010 and Kosovo in 2014 Here, just to make, for the record, what is said. That's exactly what I said, and that's why here, just kind of, I couldn't replicate it because you spoke for the club. Just for the truth of what I said. Thank you very much and of course, HDZ will support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6984	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the final, honourable State Secretary, Zarko Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6985	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Since some of the claims I hold have been made in the debate, which I hold out for not to stand or to keep something from hanging in the air, I must point out the following. Our country is like other member states, of course, different initiatives within multilateral organisations, and from the UN, the EU, NATO, the Euro-Mediterranean countries, as is known as the Euro-Mediterranean Seismological Centre, which we have been monitoring, especially for the last 6 months since this catastrophic earthquake in Zagreb, but it has been regularly reporting on all seismological events in Europe and the world. So we are also members of different regional and bilateral and more.../incomprehensible/... or multi-member organisations in the area of preparedness and protection against disasters, here were the talks on Hungary. We with R. Hungary have concluded as a country one of the first contracts on.../incomprehensible/... mutual protection and prevention from natural and technological disasters and in 1997 at 7. Mm-hmm, and that contract, that's exactly what the contract's called, has been in effect since 1.5.1998, so over 22 years. I personally participated in several bilateral and multilateral meetings with Hungarian authorities in the area of disaster protection, beginning and in the first decade of this century and with this country we have one of the best cooperation, but it is logical and it is true that the best and most needed cooperation with neighbouring countries is the most necessary. And have agreements that regulate that cooperation. Why do you agree? Because when a disaster occurs, so it's about minutes, hours, days, so, you need to react quickly and when other countries come with their people and their equipment, you need to have some procedure that there's no standing at the border and questioning who's now coming with certain vehicles, equipment, people, etc. So that all the services in one country know how to act when such an event occurs and when other countries provide assistance. So we have such.../incomprehensible/... many bilateral agreements, this is also, one of the multi-party agreements I was talking about. The Republic of Croatia has imposed itself as a country leader in some of these areas, especially in the area of fire and ours, as you know, our public knows, our planes, our Canadians, have been helping to put out fires, not only in neighbouring countries, but for the past few years our Canadians have put out fires, for example, in Israel which is not so close. As you said, many of you, natural and technological disasters do not choose moment, state, individual, state and society, but the international community should be as ready as possible to respond to them and mutual cooperation between countries is a necessary condition. And so this agreement that is before you is one of the ways that countries work together, negotiate, train, and be as ready as possible for such events. In order for a country to be prepared, it is also necessary to include, of course, some regulations, practice, as many experts as possible, as well as ordinary people who can be trained, who can help their fellow citizens, but also citizens of other countries when they need it most. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-23-0.u6986	Thank you very much. We're done talking about this. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 Proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security, first reading, P.Z. No. 24. Thank you very much. Have a good afternoon. Session interrupted at 15.40 hours.
