ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183848	And we are going to the next point, and that is the report on the regulations that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted under legal authority. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 3. The Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yes, a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Tomislav Dulibic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183849	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Regulation provides for healthcare professionals performing private practice on the basis of the leases referred to in Article 261(1) and (5). The health care law ceases work in private practice by renting no later than 31 December 2020, not 31 December 2019, as governed by the applicable law. In view of the fact that health activities under the lease provided for in Articles 261(1) and (5) of the current Health Protection Act are currently being carried out by 639 healthcare professionals for the procedures preceding the application of those healthcare professionals, which are being carried out at the level of the County and the City of Zagreb, have not yet been completed and the assumptions have not been reached for the submission of the administrative requirements of these health professionals to the Ministry of Health for the continuation of private practice in the office until 31 December 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183850	Thank you. Also respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinasic will say something on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected MPs and MPs, this is about the Regulation amending and supplementing the Act on the implementation of the law on monetary assets, the law which should have been incorporated or incorporated into the Executive Act in the reform of the executive procedure and its degree abolished. In view of the fact that the Implementing Law has gone into third reading and in view of the deadlines for this and the application of EU Directive 2018/843 amending Directive 849 of the '15th preventing the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, it was necessary to respond to this by the Government by means of a regulation adding provisions in two articles of this Act in a way that information on holders and users of safes is provided. Therefore, information which must be accessible and can be searched through centralised mechanisms under this new Directive is information on the safes of all natural and legal persons, and through a single account register which has yet to be established in 2010 and until today, it complements, depending on the amendments to these Directives. In that register can be accessed, can be accessed by the financial intelligence unit of a Member State or in our case, it is the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. The amendment also provides for the legal possibility to complete the rule adopted under this law and to prescribe in the rules themselves and norms regarding safes. Here, in short, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183852	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Excuse me, we have one replica of the esteemed representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183853	Thank you, dear Vice President. Very briefly, I just want to highlight and draw attention to the thoughts of both of these three amendments to the regulation that the Government has adopted on the basis of its legal powers which we have left behind I welcome especially this part of the Implementing Law which has been sent to the third reading, it is absolutely understandable but also this one for the lease of space for private practices or the pursuit of health activities. I think it's something that's well-recognized. And here we have seen countless times how it has been challenged when we have always passed these laws that the government can in the period when the assembly is sitting and generally adopt such regulations, so there is a lot of talk and talk. I think this is one, I just want to point out that it's a good practice, how it's always been and how a lot of people use these things for some absolutely irrelevant things saying that a practical assembly should be sitting from morning to night and that these things shouldn't be brought in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183854	Thank you very much. Since the rapporteur of the board will not take the floor, I am opening the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183855	Dear Vice-President, the honourable secretary of state is here before us two of the regulations that the Government has passed and based on the legal powers it had to adopt because of these objective circumstances that could not have been applied as they were actually provided for in the legal frameworks. Thus, the Regulation amending the Health Protection Act, where provided for, means that this regulation is applicable from 31 December 2019. Since by 1 December not all units of regional self-government mean of the county and the city of Zagreb have completed the decision-making process of the representative bodies in the criteria for setting the lease, nor have all health institutions decided on the amount of the lease on these criteria reached all the assumptions for continuing the work of these healthcare professionals in private practice in the office until 31 December 2019 and therefore must be extended. So the rest is as stated in 639 healthcare professionals still carrying out this health care activity, and this does not extend the time limit for their work in private practice would result in the loss of those jobs and therefore allows healthcare professionals to continue their work until 31 December 2020, and in that time, everything that the county has not done within that legal period as provided for by the first law will be resolved. As regards the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the law on financial assets, see also as also stated by this Act on the use of money and terrorist financing and amending Directive 2009/EC, it is therefore not possible to respect the deadline and therefore it is important that, as a result of the article, the amendment of the Directive on the prevention of the use of financial resources for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing and amending Directive 2009 EC is prescribed that Member States establish centralised mechanisms such as the central register... a system for obtaining data enabling the timely identification of all natural persons who possess or control accounts for payments and bank accounts by means of IBAN as defined by the Regulation establishing technical and business requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro and amending the Regulation of the EC Regulation. 924. Member States shall ensure that the information stored on... The mechanisms shall be made directly available to national financial and intelligence units immediately and in... form, information which must be accessible and can be searched through centralised mechanisms and safes of all natural and legal persons. [[The speaker is not understood because of the speedy reading.]] Article 1 provides that the unique account register as a single database contains data on safes of natural and legal persons, which are available in the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering by electronic means and without compensation. That implementation of the provisions of the Directive should be part of the reform of the implementation of the implementing procedure proposed in the provisions of the Implementing Law proposal in a way that the contents of the single account register in the future are prescribed by the provisions of the Implementing Law and further specified by the regulations adopted by the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. This is because of all these circumstances, the HDZ Club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183856	Thank you very much. The next should be the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, the respected representative Zekanovic should speak. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. After that, an individual debate of the respected representative, Maras, was reported. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. An individual debate of the respected representative of Pernar was also reported. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Since we have not predicted further points, we will now take a break by 12.00 hours, please let us all be here because at 12.00 there will be a vote on the points so far done. Thank you very much. It's 10.01 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183857	Report on regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The applicant of the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal authority. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 97 for, 12 abstentions and 1 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Before we go to the polls, I would like to welcome all of us students and students XIII. High school from Zagreb, welcome. So, first, we vote on a proposal to show Willy Berosh's trust in acting as Minister of Health. [[Applause.]] A colleague of Bernardic's called, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183859	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, we are looking for a break to point out once again the choice of the relevant William Beros as Minister of Health of the Republic of Croatia, but also to the disastrous state of health system. We are witnessing that the health system is in complete collapse, that healthcare debts threaten to be supplied to hospitals, that waiting lists in our hospitals are never higher and that there is a strong outflow of nurses and doctors abroad that has never been greater in Croatian history. The state was contributed by the health minister who was removed, Mr Kujundzic, who is 14 ministers who have been removed because of suspected corruption. Imagine, 14 of this government's ministers who have been removed on suspicion of corruption. His assistant to the gentleman, Mr Beros, was with him on the team, so the choice of Mr Beros in this particular case will not solve anything because it is the person who has been the person of Kujundzic's trust, who has worked with him for all these three years and who has contributed together with him to the health system today being in complete collapse. You can't do the same thing, the same way you expect a different result. That's why we're looking for a break to further warn the MPs what we're voting on here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183860	You've reached out to your colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183861	Your Honor, Mr. President, it's 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183862	Excuse me, what function are you in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183863	I'm just asking something, I have no way of asking a question. From 2016 only one report did not come to debate...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183864	Please, have a seat, colleague Lovrinović. You're getting a warning. Come on, we've already worked it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183865	...it's a report on the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183866	Please sit down. You have no right to speak. Comrade Reiner, here you go. Comrade Lovrinović, sit down. Here you go. No, not just a little bit about what you're hearing from a colleague? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please excuse me, please welcome my colleague, Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183867	Dear President, I had to react, so Article 238's violation of the false is not the 14th Minister who leaves because of corruption some ministers left this government because they did not want to agree exactly that this government is not fighting corruption, that there is no insistence on transparency, that the conflict of interest of Minister Maric, who went to secret meetings with Ivica Todorovic, is therefore false and I had to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183868	Thank you very much. Well, that's yours, your right, your interpretation, I believe there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183869	Dear Mr. President, I am also looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club on the same subject, I will not tell my fellow Member, Bernardic, and I do not intend to address anyone in this way, especially my colleagues or potential ministers, it is not a matter of respect for someone who is prior. Health care has been on difficult times for a very long time. Debts have not arisen now. Debts of health organizations, hospitals, have not formed either of these, not since 3 years ago or 5 years ago. To be honest, they've been dragging around, so I can calmly say one to five decades. Why is that? Let's face it, we have a health care system that's objectively much higher than our economic strength, and that's how it is and that's reality, we can naturally politicize about it, etc., but given our GDP, unfortunately we have a health care that far exceeds that and all of this is achieved in the account of the fact that healthcare professionals have relatively low wages, all of them, doctors and nurses, etc. and it's the same reality and we can't run away from it and we can't politicize it. As for the waiting list, in many countries waiting lists are far greater than in our country, in much richer countries for non-emergency patients [[Intruder: Thank you]] Emergency patients aren't waiting for us either. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Reiner]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183870	Stanku, before that, colleague Vlaovic, yes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183871	Thank you very much, President HS, colleagues and colleagues, for asking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club in order to consult on the vote on the proposal for a new health minister. William Beros and once again pointed to a difficult situation in Croatian health care. While the prime minister himself says that, formerly, the former minister could not focus and work to ensure that the real health care is in the patient's function, that the patient is at the centre of attention, that he has available healthcare in all parts of the Republic, that he has the ability to treat himself, in time to perform diagnostic tests, and the fact is that this problem is still not resolved, that the waiting lines for examinations are too long, of course that it is good that emergency cases do not wait, but also every patient has the right to diagnostic tests, but unfortunately it is not possible, of course some have been sent to private clinics, so the question is whether everything is in accordance with the law and whether everything towards the Republic is paid in time. And what we also want to point out is that the problem is that family medicine is due to lack of doctors, especially in rural areas where I come from, from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and elsewhere is also unreachable because there are no doctors, that no tenders for licences, specializations are scheduled in time, and that they are late. The fact is that family doctors, those we call privates won't or can't go on weekends and holidays, and that's not settled. The fact that there is a great pressure on united emergency hospital receptions in hospitals, we at HSS propose to combine emergency medicine and a united hospital emergency reception, reduce pressure on hospitals and provide quality health care, that helicopter emergency services should also be involved, and we have also made an amendment to the state budget to introduce this. This minister announces it, we wish him much happiness in his new work. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183872	Thank you very much. My colleagues of the Sagittarius, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183873	Thank you, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST in order to consult as far as possible on the matter of health and whether we can support this proposal at all because, as we see today, the same story in the last 30 years, so both the right and left sides have had the opportunity to do something for health and have not done it. The money gene that is not paid to healthcare professionals is from Rajko Ostojic, who first signed such a collective contract, so Miranda Mrsic, who amended the law that doctors cannot be negotiators, and then this minister who did nothing but tried to influence the judicial authority. We presented clear reasons at half the term of office, twice the MOST went to impeachment, and we said half of the term why the minister could no longer act as a minister because he did not carry out the key moves and reforms in Croatian health. After a year, half a year ago, we cited the exact measures that should be done quickly in order to try to solve certain health problems, and it is not, and we regret what the minister is leaving and has left because of the problem he has with the property card, and not because of the inaction in health, and because of that it is questionable that the next minister can in this short time, the time has been half-term, we are now wondering what can be done by the end of the term, only what the Prime Minister will want, and that will be what he could have done before 2nd.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183874	All right, colleague Zekanovic and you've reached out, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183875	That's right, I'm also looking for a break for consultation on this agenda point. He would point out here that the reason why Minister Kujundzic's departure is not a property card because it is obvious that no one in the government knows how to fill the property card properly, but here is the obvious reason for others, and the reason is that at this point Minister Kujundzic no longer responds for some reason, he used it when he was supposed to vote for Istanbul and the government, he raised his hand, and now he clearly doesn't need it anymore, so he easily gave up his man, a man who was loyal to him, although it was allegedly difficult for him to raise his hand for the disputed document. And yet another proof of my claim is that the Minister Divjak survived, despite the fact that the public knows that she is guilty and responsible for 6.5 million kunas in her portfolio, where her neglect or neglect and unhappiness of the Republic of Croatia is damaged by 6.5 million kuna and no one is talking about it. However, she remained because it was the Croatian-Serbian-Serb Coalition where the CNS has its own hands that are extremely important to Andrej Plenkovic, so no matter what the Minister Divjak did, she will still be there, and all the rest of the ministers are worried about when you fall into the mercy of Andrej Plenkovic and when he will get rid of you regardless of what you were loyal to him and about the meaning of the Istanbul Convention and on any law. So, all of you who will vote for Minister Andrej Plenkovic today, think carefully whether he will stand behind you in the same way tomorrow because he has given up Minister Kujundzic as well. To be clear, the card had to be filled in properly, so tomorrow, in an equally easy way, it's likely to give up on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183876	Comrade Curaj, you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or are you reporting for a break? Rules of Procedure, good. [[Intruder Curaj: Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183877	Yes, thank you, Mr. President, they've been injured. 232. and 238. Coli Zekanovic did not talk about the topic of the agenda for which he sought a break while still insulting and soundness of mind, and I would only remind him, so far he is the biggest defender of Minister Kujundzic, voting less than 6 months for his impeachment, and now defends him. So much for credibility and consistency.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183878	Well, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you used that institute, but it was estimated that there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Zekanovic, you're looking for the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183879	A colleague also broke point 238. I did not mention anyone's mind, colleague, I am against all ministers in the government of Andrej Plenkovic, so I was also against Minister Kujundzic, so I was and I was against Minister Divjak, so I am without distinction because I am against the policy of the General being implemented by Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183880	Okay, my colleague Zekanovic and you know very well that this was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure but a form of replica. We're still on request for a break, colleague Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183881	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, on behalf of our club, we are looking for a break so that we can consult again on why we will vote against this candidate of yours for Minister of Health, and also in that time, Mr. Bero can still take the opportunity to pass his property card once again to see if it is properly filled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183882	Is anyone else picking up the phone? If not, we'll continue at 12 o'clock and 30 minutes. Please be there. It's 12.20 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.33 HOURS]] Therefore, it is up to the proposal to show the trust of Willy Berosch to perform his duties as Minister of Health. The promoter is Andrej Plenkovic, president of the government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Art. 119. The Rules of Procedure of HS debate was held. At the meeting of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, in accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, No. 119st century 2., No. 10. Rules of Procedure, this proposal is not under discussion at the plenary session. I stress that. 252. The Rules of Procedure determines that to show confidence to members of the government, a half majority of all MPs are required, so 76 MPs. I am now voting on a proposal to show Willy Berosch's confidence in acting as Minister of Health. I would like to vote that with 81 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 43 votes against the voiced trust of William Beros to perform the post of Minister of Health. Ladies and gentlemen, by showing confidence, the conditions for giving an oath to the minister's foot in the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been met, in accordance with Article. 120. Rules of Procedure of HS and Art. 5 Laws on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The oath is given in a way that the president pronounces the text of the oath and thereafter calls upon a member of the Government who swears by standing up and saying "I swear". The text of the oath reads: I swear that I will be conscious and honorable in my duties as a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, the laws and the legal order, and advocate any progress made by the Republic of Croatia. I ask Mr. Willie Berosch to swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183884	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-31-0.u183885	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Minister, congratulations and I wish you a great deal of success in your work. Information on the work of the Electronic Media Council and the Electronic Media Agency for 2018 The applicant shall be the Agency for Electronic Media and the Council for Electronic Media. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Electronic Media Agency for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 92 for, 16 abstentions and 8 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
