ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195628	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by respected Secretary of State Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195629	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm glad Mr. Grmoya knows what I'm thinking, but I think I'm obliged to answer with regard to the importance of this subject and the situation we're in. This is the procedure, Mr. Škibola was envisaged in regular circumstances that after the Croatian government accepted the completion of negotiations with the US side, after the minister of justice signed an agreement in Washington with the US chief state attorney, that the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the Constitution, was in line with the article. The 141st has ratified this important international document. Why has it been so long? I said that it was more than one Croatian government for 11 years, it was our obligation when we joined the EU in 2013 to take over the EU acquis, the 2003 roof agreement was signed with EU member states, but bilaterally, however, it is the obligation of every country to ratify it in the national parliament has now come to a turn. Why for many years? Because it is a completely different legal system, the American, Croatian and European something is that the institutes that Americans have in their legal system do not know Croatian legal system. To protect Croatian citizens in specific matters such as specific issues, it is not only a criminal aspect, it is political, international and interstate. We discussed the instruments of the institutes to adapt them to our law which the American system knows, and Croatian does not know. We have taken care of the fact that we especially protect Croatian citizens from exclusions that are not necessary, and this is about the procedures that Croatia can carry out in its judicial system. So, if a crime is committed, the crime is a criminal offence, whether it was committed in Croatia or in America, and it's a similar crime, and we have to prosecute the perpetrator. So we took special care that every aspect of both extradition and international mutual legal assistance, you asked what it was. These are joint teams, experts, applicants for interviewing parties either in one country, or in another country,... a video conference, preventing cybercrime at the level that has to be handled urgently, so there is no time for any other procedure, we have solved all of this through mutual negotiations, but all of this is written in this law which are the elements of these agreements. So there are no secrets or hiding, it's a very important document, but given the situation of the coronary virus, the situation of the earthquake, we've estimated that this brief conversion was enough for you as advocates to get materials in laws. And it is also my duty to say that the Croatian judiciary must function with these contracts without them and it works. There are important other open topics, look, Mrs Pusic, these are visas, we were supposed to end it somewhere in the 11th month this year, the problem of double taxation with the United States are all important elements that primarily encourage the economy, the free movement of our citizens to America and so on. So we did not spread the subject in view of the situation, but I am obliged to say that we have taken care of everything, and I am also obliged to say that the Croatian judiciary works in these difficult times, that we have prepared all the laws for deadlines, related to the performance of the prison system only in silence. We do not want to panic because in prisons we protect 3,400 people, and with these measures we protect all of our citizens and I am sure that we will not make a mistake in steps when it comes to guaranteeing the constitutional rights of all our citizens, regardless of whether it is criminal cases, whether it is civil matters, whether it is deeds, land-based books. I'm sure no citizen of the Republic of Croatia will be harmed by this severe crisis that has found the whole country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195630	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The Honorable representative of the bush first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195631	Dear Mr. Salapic, I beg you to report to the people, so these e-registries have been introduced in the system of e-citizens, please appeal to the government, not the employers can fill it themselves, but the workers have to do it, they don't know that one good part of the workers doesn't know how to use the system of e-citizens, they don't know how to remove the e-pass, the business is in big trouble and please respond urgently. Here I am asked by a man who is involved in installing electrical circuits of installations, who managed to do business during this crisis, but now he has a big problem with these e-passes because workers of every pass have to pull out their own e-civil system, people don't know it, they can't do it for them, I think it's much more important than what you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195632	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195633	Well, it's not my theme, but I think by 6 April, by Monday, this system is working out and that all the problems in walking will be solved by Monday, that applies to both our employees of the Justice Department and everyone else. I'm sure they won't be allowed to meet anywhere, so by Monday they'll be worth the old pass. From hour to hour things happen, things change, so the system wants to be introduced, that the system is under control to prevent the spread of this vicious disease, but it's also not going to bring people into something that they have to work for themselves, and they don't know it, I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195634	The next is a replica of respected Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195635	Dear Secretary of State, you responded in your report to fellow Scyboli, and I thought you would also answer me that you would tell me that we are leading or that you are taking care that neither General Gotovina happens to us in any foreign court, nor the general means Croatian martyr General Praljak or still imprisoned, General Petkovic, I have not heard from you, so here I am interested and I want to hear whether you have foreseen this contract that such situations that we have had in the past few decades after the Homeland War are no longer happening. If by adopting this contract tomorrow we're going to have to retake some state, some tribunal, any court anywhere in the world we have to hand over our heroes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195636	Secretary of State, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195637	Thank you, Vice President. I did not avoid answering you, dear representative Zekanovic, it is two completely opposite things. First of all, I am personally pleased that Mr. General Gotovina has proved his innocence in The Hague. The founding of The Hague court took place at the request of the Croatian side when Yugoslavia fell apart, war crimes were committed, The Hague court was then special to the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda founded by the UN Security Council. The Hague court has its pluses and its minuses, and now is not the time for me to comment on it, I only know that these agreements will protect our citizens in the area of criminal justice as regards extradition, mutual legal assistance as regards the pleas between the two states of the Republic of Croatia and the United States. I am sure there have been gaps in the functioning of The Hague tribunal, but I am also sure that Croatia has done everything to protect its citizens, generals who have found themselves before The Hague. I think that now a wider story about the situation where General Gotovina and all the other generals who have proven their innocence would go in the direction of an entirely one debate which, given the situation in Croatia, is not appropriate and necessary, and I believe that you understand what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195638	Comrade Zekanovic, you probably want to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195639	Dear Vice President, I demand a five-minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on this law. I must point out here that despite the UN court's condemnation of several war criminals who have committed war crimes in Croatia and neighbouring BiH, every Croatian man, every patriot and every Croat and Croat has remained a bitter taste in their mouths. It's nice to meet you, of course, that General Gotovina was released, but no one can tell me he's an example. General Petkovic or General Slobodan Praljak or any other prisoner Croatian General in The Hague court criminal. I agree that this topic may not be appropriate nowadays, the only appropriate topic today is that, meaning the press conference of the crisis headquarters, means one new body run by the Croatian state, and we're not going to talk about anything anymore, all other topics fall into another plan. They don't fall and they can't fall. Of course, we need to fight all the forces against the crown of the crisis, we need to save our country from this crisis, meaning all possible health measures, but we must not be allowed to suffer from the coronary crisis, or this great epidemic, from some bad laws and that Croatian citizens forget about other important periods of Croatian history and other dangers that lurk. So, besides tracking the cell phone that the Croatian government is trying to introduce, the Croatian government wants to ignore all the key things of Croatian history and therefore I ask for a break to point out that Croatian citizens would get a chance to think again about these words that I speak. General Petkovic, General Slobodan Praljak and many others are not war criminals and I do not want any new Hague court to happen anywhere in the world thanks to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195640	Thank you very much, of course we'll take a break. At 10 and 56 we'll meet again. THE PURPOSE CONTINUED AFTER THE COUNTRY We are going to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195642	International contracts discussed between the United States and the Republic of Croatia on extradition and legal aid These two contracts, which are essentially EU signatories. We, being part of the EU, are now just what needs to be done. However, when we talk about this contract when there is already a secretary, then we must say that Croatia as an EU member who has joined the EU has now passed and the seven-year period has simply been adapted sometimes. It gave its sovereignty, not partly in association, but essentially in a way that it would be given its sovereignty in addition to certain international agreements or agreements, i.e. It was even an advocacy before we joined the EU that we had no power to protect our sovereign interests, it is an exclusive economic belt, these are mainly about the pressure of the EU at the time on Croatia, which was by handing out Croatian generals, so we had to give up what I said exclusively to the economic belt, we had to agree that agricultural land had that from this year on we could buy the parties legal and natural persons i.e. and this is not a little agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia that should have been processed to think about sovereign interests. I also gave the law in the procedure. that all the land is divided which is unprocessed at this point is the coronary virus and that we start and start in our own production of self-sufficiency and hope that this law will also come together and that the minister from the second ministry will see that the policies that are most visible in Italy and the EU's attitude towards Italy have been missed so far as we are chairman. And of course here I mentioned that I expect already if we have entered the EU in the way we entered the EU, and we see that the prime minister is calling for great experience within the EU, great friendships... within the EU, we are holding the EU, here I expect that we will also get some support from the Croatian citizens paying and membership in large amounts, so that we will get financial support in solving all problems within Croatia, and mainly within the judiciary that does not work. The most trusted secretary of Croatian citizens is in your ministry of justice. So here's what other colleagues have mentioned when I look at it, it's the problem of the appeal deadlines in certain procedures. Who says that in one court I don't even know if it happened in one court that someone can't be infected with the coronary virus and go to the whole court in isolation, and appeal deadlines go. We also see problems with the passes of certain people from certain areas that are not very interesting, especially older people, and there are certain legal procedures from the executives, these, those all procedures, therefore the appeal deadlines of the triba moratorium and those deadlines. If there's a 15-day appeal somewhere if you didn't do it, of course you'd be going to trial. I'm also interested in whether you've done something about it and made us send our citizens a message, is that important to our citizens, these are appeal deadlines, a very important question, are the appeal deadlines set by the moratorium on appeal deadlines? There's a moment in the process that's being conducted, it's mostly a question here when we're talking about passes, we have problems that people don't have mostly in rural areas where I come from, probably in all municipalities, but we have more municipalities and cities than the United States, and they're all determined now by the foundation of the National Civil Protection Staff, they're all in a blockade and without a pass they can't get to a certain lawyer. So these are very important things, very important and life-threatening things and people are calling for that problem all of us MPs are expecting us to take this out, and you're expected to give an answer. Is the moratorium on appeal deadlines, the same thing I asked you about is what's significant about the moratorium on the loan and like I said about executive procedures. These are important questions and I think we just have to give answers to people. And other political options Parliamentarians suggest it, but we don't get an answer from you. Here again, I would like you to answer clearly what is going on and what are your measures, and the measures must be urgent and effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195643	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195644	Thank you very much, Vice President. So you need to go back to the metrics. There's no talking about losing any sovereignty to these documents, and that needs to be said out loud and clear. Connecting The Hague court to these documents, there's absolutely no connection. This is not about the extradition of Croatian citizens to the United States or vice versa, it is not about dealing with these documents nor would the Croatian state agree to this, nor would America agree to this, but it is about simplifying the maximum. If a citizen of the state x committed, say, a serious crime of trafficking in children, women, weapons and hides in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and is sought by the United States or vice versa, then it is done here that it is regulated by this document. And we are all safe and I believe that we agree that we do not want to hide such perpetrators of such crimes in our territory and be some kind of oasis for the perpetrators of criminal acts, neither do we want to, nor do we need to go in that direction at all. Therefore this document, i.e. these two united documents, are quite useful. If we are talking about the experience of the United States in these problems, or in these judicial issues, then we have all agreed that their experience is precious, that their experience is of world scale and that they have a great experience especially in disclosing organised crime precisely in these drug chains, in cybercrime, in all these important contemporary criminal acts that are regulated by this contract. From this document or these two documents I think and it is not only my personal opinion because I am not a legal expert but also the opinion of those who know more about it than I do that the Republic of Croatia can benefit only. First, we can benefit because we don't want to be an oasis to hide criminals on our territory, neither we, nor the United States, can benefit, therefore and educationally in terms of professional teams that if a team between the United States and the Republic of Croatia is to expose and bring justice to some kind of criminal chain, some grouped organized criminal gang or individual, I think their experience can only benefit us, any organised crime in question. Also if the citizens of some country x here want to stay, here find their haven, it won't be possible. But it should be made clear once again that this does not mean the extradition of Croatian citizens because all rights guaranteed by the Constitution are still rights guaranteed by the Constitution and by positive legal regulations. The Republic of Croatia has lost nothing to these documents, I say responsibly. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I've claimed and I say again now, the Republic of Croatia can only win. Why have you waited so long? It was waiting because we were ratified in 1901 and 1902, respectively, by a document called "A Treaty between the United States and the Kingdom of Serbia on the mutual release of fugitives from justice", which, the Republic of Croatia was even in Austria-Hungarian at the time. So, we're the former state, Yugoslavia took over the contract by succession, so we took it again after our independence. So our legal gain is to say so in a colloquial sense was lagging behind and we had to modernise it. Each government has given its pain in its own sense, but since the Secretary of State said that the US acquis and the European acquis are different in some cases, then it lasted as long as it lasted. When they signed a roof contract with the US member then it was expected that the Republic of Croatia would sign and bilaterally and the Republic of Croatia did so, I said on December 10, 2019, and the parliament would now ratify these documents and behind this we would have had a completely adequate platform so that we could deal with what we were dealing with in some superficial way so far, I would say that when it was the case, let's say that we have an example of several cases there were, and one of the cases was without laying down a name that the person was accused of a certain criminal act which was not covered by this old law and imagine that if it were not for the person to be brought to justice, it had to be sought out in that list of criminal acts whether it was a criminal offence which was in that law of 1901, so it was by chance that it could have been extradited, and if it was not for the murder he had actually remained free from justice. I don't think that's gonna be a case anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195645	A representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic came forward for free of charge. Excuse me, this is an individual debate at this point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195646	It's all right. Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we currently have almost one million coronary patients in the world. We also have about 50,000 people who died unfortunately due to the infection of the coronary virus. In the U.S. today, there are about 200,000 people who are suffering from coronarys, and the number of deaths is growing terribly, and of course we feel guilty about it. And I will repeat what I said earlier, the United States is a Croatian ally, and the Republic of Croatia is an American ally. And we chose our ally and we joined the NATO Pact. And I'm going to say that there are strong links between America and the Republic of Croatia through Croatian migration, through the Croats who built that country and today they're building it and today they're dealing with all the concerns and troubles that the American people are carrying. And that's what's important to emphasize. I believe in an honest real partnership through the NATO Pact and through these contracts when we sign both bilaterally and as the EU, and that story ends. But here I still have to replicate a small part of my colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. So, when the Hague court was created to encourage the Republic of Croatia to solve war crimes in the area of the former state or in the space of course and the Republic of Croatia, then no one expected, no one expected that Croatian generals would end up in The Hague, no one. And then if I from this pay phone, which is legitimate, express one concern about the experience of my people, because of the experience of my people that this must not happen, and we must prevent it, then it is legitimate and fine. I know this law does not define it, but I, as an agent at HS, warned the ministry representatives to make sure that Praljak, Gotovina, Petkovic or any other Croatian martyr in any international court in any country never happens again. I mentioned the examples of Asang, Gulen, of these things, we must be ready tomorrow. That's what this agreement will provide. And here's still a very interesting thing to mention, it's mentioned, I haven't studied it in 1902. The Republic of Croatia signed this agreement. My colleague, it's not the Republic of Croatia. So Croatia signed this agreement by entering into this agreement by entering the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, or the month before the Slovenians, Croats and Serbs, I presume. Right? It's 1918. A year, and with this period 16 years ago, we have absolutely no connection, absolutely no connection, no more than '14. For years we have fought with them who have signed this agreement, and of course this is about the Kingdom of Serbia, so we were then in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, it's ancient history, but here's just one small object, one small remark on that side. So I'm going to repeat today in the world we have one situation to choose alliances. We have chosen our allies, they are located across the Atlantic, they are in the North Atlantic military alliance and they are in the Economic Union with us, with many bilateral agreements and I am to strengthen this alliance because together we belong to a Western civilization, and we see that the world is still far away from one global understanding and common progress and that we must seek out allies and we have found them in an imperfect world.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195647	The replica was reported by Pertievcan Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195648	Thank you very much. I did not say that Croatia signed something, the Kingdom of Serbia signed in 1901. With the U.S. and ratified in 1902, she took over the former Yugoslavia by concession and then took over after my independence. That's exactly what I said and you know it. And secondly, as far as the Hague tribunal is concerned, it's all legitimate to speak and professor. Miroslav Tudjman was the last book he wrote dedicated precisely to irregularities in the trials at The Hague tribunal where many of our generals were passing through the entire Calvary and Gogoth and trying to prove their innocence. Fortunately, some have proven, and we hope those who are not yet able to prove it. No one said the Hague tribunal in its form was positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195649	Replicate response, MP Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195650	My colleagues, Petrijevcanin, you said exactly how well you quoted yourself from an individual debate, but you did not quote from a speech in front of a club where you did not say this way, where I did not study the history of international relations that Croatia was when it was in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy of this agreement. So we can only talk about 1918. A year, but not since 1902. A year. As for the UN tribunal, unfortunately all those who are still there, I will repeat that there is General Petkovic there they are unfortunately left for mercy and mercy. It is a great honor for Mr. Tudjman to write books, but the Croatian state has forgotten General Milivovo Petkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195651	MP Tomislav Panenic also applied for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195652	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Maybe 1901. It was a long time ago, but I would still come back at the present time and cite some real problems that neither this ratification that should be carried out will be solved. The first question is visas. By joining the EU, we probably all expected that we would also achieve all the rights as they achieve all the obligations of EU membership. One of these rights is also that the EU represents all its members and is seeking the same rights for all citizens, any member state. We have discrimination about the US that visas for our citizens with three other EU countries Bulgaria, Romania and Cyprus are not approved. It's a little cynical when America, their ambassador, recommend that as many of our businessmen who seem to be the only such acceptable category or perhaps officials politically as our former president apply for visas, then bring down the rate of denied visas to below 3%, which is their criterion. Right now, we're somewhere about 4% denied, so it was announced by the end of 2020. The year we're going to fall below 3%, it counts at the end of September. In view of the ruling administration of their President Trump, who at the time of his rise then makes decisions, he has also made a decision to limit the movement of people from the Schengen area, and what we are forgetting is likely to make it difficult for us who need visas to get visas and yet there will be the largest number of those who have been rejected and nothing without a visa regime by the end of 2020. Years. Now, while discussing and harmonising with the US administration, it should be pointed out that the need to lift visas is something that we believe is also the fluid of what citizens have decided, which is to be an EU member state and to be observed as such. Is this how we're separated by exactly the United States that should be ours and what our government says is the greatest ally, we're not in that category. And it is very demanding to follow now and it is very demanding to follow now on the one hand we have an aggressive policy of Russia that achieves its political, strategic political goals in the Republic, is increasingly present and increasingly offers significant benefits that we have so far since the US administration just listened to in nice words. We got some military equipment, so we boasted about it, but let's not forget who it was that blocked the purchase of fighter aircraft from Israel, just our American allies. They were the ones who hitched the whole job when it was already done. Now under these conditions of the economic crisis that comes when we will realise the issue of the purchase of the aircraft. Now Trump should be the one to correct his mistake and give Croatia as they give others and one part of the squadron to the plane so that at least we can bridge the most important needs we have. Russia did not forget to give both Mongolia and Serbia gifts, so let's see more of these great United States powers to recognize us who have been their loyal partner all these years and to solve our needs. And one of the LNG strategic projects depends precisely and even more on their needs, so I hope that in this project too they will give considerable assistance to not only the cost of Croatia and security, the energy security of all parts of the EU that depend on the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195653	Representative Zekanovic called in a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195654	Dear fellow Panenic, you said one fact, but I would still interpret it a little differently. America has not made it impossible for us to obtain planes, but is an incompetent Croatian government, so first of all, with Andrej Plenkovic, the president of the Croatian government was not able to excavate, arrange for the purchase of planes, so these planes are not purchased as I do not know any other product on the world market, he is agreeing politically at the highest level. And Andrej Plenkovic and his crew around him they thought it was buying like I don't know a truck or a bike or anything else. So, only the Croatian incompetent government is because it has not agreed in advance, it has failed to realise the acquisition. And later she cheated on the people that there was a mistake in the procedure, no procedure. Only there was no political force, no will to buy planes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195655	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195656	Dear Representative Zekanovic, we have learned from our prime minister so far that he is always strutting around with big words, and when concrete realization comes, there is a whole series of problems. The decisions he was supposed to make in the government were also influencing, and I agree with the acquisition of the plane, if it were communicable, the negotiated would certainly not have been their US ambassador the first one to state the fact that there was nothing to do with that job. The US Ambassador has its headquarters in Zagreb, can be in contact every day, and if it was unclear how Croatia actually arranged the job, we have a big problem talking to our largest military ally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195657	For the final word on behalf of the Club, I apologize, please be patient you have the possibility of a replica representative Glasnovnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195658	You know, every debate we each have to support the facts. Israel tried to get the planes of combating Croatia to the United States, but since patents for weapons systems, navigations and others are also a secret of this state secret that is the problem of the state of Israel and ours, it becomes our problem, and this is the state that received $34 billion military aid from the United States and the blame is their not US, and that is what needs to be clarified. We also need to clarify what our priorities are about defenses. NATO this in Italy base 15 minutes away from this from Croatia and NATO is one collective security organisation. That's why I don't always know we're comparing ourselves with someone else, but we have to be aware ourselves that we have to rely on ourselves, on our beaks, and no one else. It's nothing else. [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195659	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195660	My esteemed colleague, I think in that ping-pong between the two great allies of the United States and Israel, we were a collateral sacrifice. As far as I'm concerned, I can make it right for both of us. Israel can solve this problem, the United States can, I know only one thing that Andrej Plenkovic can't because if he could have arranged it with his biggest allies with those who give maximum support, we wouldn't have a visa, and we'd have planes, the American gas would have run through LNG and everything would be great. But when we talk about strategic things, let's forget what truck or some detail of other equipment or support, but I really expect the United States to finally show and money, right, to show that something they invest financially in those they consider strategic partners in this area of Europe to eventually It's not just in words that this support turns out to be. [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195661	The MOST representative's club reported for the closing statement on their behalf will be by representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195662	Dear secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The contracts Croatia sign in this case with the United States, of course, which was our legal obligation to, on the basis of EU accession, so that those praises that we have heard from certain clubs that this is something magnificent that has been done, it is neither magnificent nor great, but it is a commitment that the Republic of Croatia must, of course, apply on the basis of what is an EU member and that is how we need to talk, and not praise as a government has done something huge. Of course, here was mentioned why we would doubt this contract and our government. So why shouldn't I? I can specify certain at this point means significant things that have fallen a little in the way, and that's, say, the Marrakech compact. Here. Why didn't all EU members and allies sign the Marrakech compact? Now, the refugee crisis is a little rusty because of the coronary virus, and Croatia is. Here, I'm interested in why this international agreement, distinguished secretary of state, Croatia has agreed to be in, agrees to this Marrakech Agreement? Even though this parliament has not been given the opportunity to discuss it. It's not, it's not a question of trust, of mistrust. I know that we'd just like to talk about crisis headquarters now, that they're making statements, but there's life after this and there's a huge and economic crisis waiting for us, and we also know about the coronaryvirus of health, and, of course, the judicial crisis that doesn't stop. And the biggest mistrust the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have already when we talk about legal aid between the United States, Croatia, the EU, the largest mistrust Croatian citizens have in the judiciary. It's a fact, and now we can talk about this Agreement in a way that, of course, we should rely on ourselves and our paws, of course, that if we were allies, if we were in NATO to be a minimum, if we were to give our sons on missions that were numerous, international missions of the military that were even where our soldiers were more like clay pigeons, now we came to our senses, we should withdraw those soldiers. Well, we could have gotten, say, planes under much better conditions than other states, and now it's a matter of dignity, sovereignty, and that mental set of subjections that we have on the continuum. We even insulted the Homeland War at some point. We've extradited the general as much as the tribune. We sent the documents to the Hague tribunal, instead of 17, 17, without the qualifications being removed with it, about secrecy. We sent it to the tow truck. Instead of 17 papers, it was sent to The Hague, documents, we don't know how much. So the president of the Republic of Croatia then Stipe Mesic opened an archive of Homeland War BBC journalists, I don't know, I can't remember who, opened it. So imagine who you trust? Advisers from Stipe Mesic who now want to tap phones, i.e. to track cell phones under the cover of the crown crisis. Of course it is necessary to respect the measures and now that Stipe Mesic's me, the main man is giving mobile tracking measures to all the citizens of the Republic, it's dictatorship, I don't believe in it. I don't believe it because the U.S. administration, the American president, was going to open up military records and tell the press, please, so is that imaginary in us? It's unimaginable. It's unimaginable. He didn't imagine in... that will tell their president of parliament, parliament, to arrest, locate, arrest, transfer, process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's Vladimir Shakespeare... said, and Vladimir Seks is the chief tailor of this government and any international agreement, any which is essentially under Vladimir Seks's pass, which he said about Croatian generals and from Gotovina and all generals, locate, arrest, transfer, process, it was the main policy of Vladimir Seks, who led this government, who composed this government, who is the tailor of all the chips and everyone sitting here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that. And now we can't discuss the agreement. Croatia must take care of itself, its interests and at least of American and Russian. But with their own interests, sovereign interests and the EU, you can see what our fellow Italians are sending in this crisis now that they have with the pandemic in the highest proportion. The concern of other EU members is for the Italians. As they care about us, these are stakeholders who view us exclusively as their prey. It's like a market, so they destroyed our agriculture, our economy, all our potentials. Let's look at each other, we need to look at each other, so we need to look at each other and rely on our pecs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195663	Thank you. For the final word also, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, on their behalf, will be reported by MP Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195664	My colleagues and colleagues, I was just talking about the purchase of fighter planes in which we passed infamously. Now, while I was sitting down, I followed the statement by Minister Krsticevic, who said, "We will not get any further planes, but we will get them when the economic crisis is over." Since the intensity of the crisis is announced, it seems to me that it could take me a while, there could be intensity, which, we all struggle to be as small as possible. And then we can really say that our faithful allies, the United States, can now show all their breadth. The width of how to lift the visa regime, and also the width around the donation of which the aircraft, so that we can protect our airspace. All these stories we've heard so far that our fleet can no longer protect the airspace, that on, the resources that are on the exhale. Now we are coming into a situation that seems to me in a year, two, three, it seems that Serbia will protect us with moments our space, is it going to be the only squadron that is operational and can stand up to any external enemy, and we are going to fly in the cans of moments 21, which are highlighted by resources. I, and this way, call on exactly the forces that are the most economically powerful, the military strongest to now recognize their true allies, to be helpful to them, to solve all that they have cooked up with their political games, because the Republic of Croatia did not deserve to be part of any political game, let alone when it comes to the strategic position that everyone is often invited to. LNG terminal, gas supply, combat aircraft issues, visa regimes, are all issues which are now the current government with our allies, the US and others who are in NATO can solve and be painless for Croatian people not to be hundreds of millions of euros or dollars that we should have paid if we were once played. Who? The United States, Israel or anyone else, I think is the least important issue, and the answers to this should be given by the current government who has led the whole process and who has failed to complete it, and it seems to me now that it has ended as far as this mandate is concerned and in future time it will be difficult. Thus, the real allies and former U.S. after II are now identified. World War II was a real support to its allies, now they need to show their size and breadth and solve the problems that they have caused well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195665	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195666	The final proposal for a Act confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States which constitutes an instrument provided for in Article 3(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Agreement on mutual legal assistance between the EU and the United States signed in Washington on 25 June June 2003, second reading, P.Z. number 882. The promoter is the Government, and the debate is closed, and I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find it unanimous, with 130 for the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195667	Here, it's 9.30, good morning to you, this esteemed colleague, unfortunately there's no colleague, but oh, and she hid, she hid behind me, and I'd like to give you one notice first. So, we, today, will bring the government, as you know, and as announced, a package of measures, economic measures related to this infection and an epidemic of the crown aimed at facilitating the economy and workers, etc. And this team, therefore, with the set of laws tomorrow morning, we would complete the agenda and immediately conduct the debate, and then early next week we would organise a vote on it, as the Presidency spoke about, not here, because here it is inconclusive because of the size of the hall, but in one other place, which, of course, you will be informed of in time. Here's just as much as one notice that you know about tomorrow to change this agenda a little bit. Today we have three points on the agenda, and I would suggest at first if you agree that the first two points are really connected, if you agree to unite them in one point? Do you have anything against it? You don't. Okay, thank you very much. Then I think it's accepted. So now we're going to go together to those two points. Therefore, it is: - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States, which constitutes an instrument envisaged. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. Agreement on mutual legal assistance between the EU and the United States signed in Washington on 25 June 2003, second reading, P.Z. No. 882, and - the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States which constitutes an instrument provided for in Article 88(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3. ct. 2. Agreement on extradition between the EU and the United States signed on 25 June 2003. As regards the application of the extradition treaty signed on 25 October 1901, second reading, P.Z. No. 883. The proposer of both acts is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 207a. The Rules of Procedure of This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that laws certifying international contracts under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are, as a rule, adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. For both points, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal for both laws? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195668	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, the honourable MPs and MPs. We have two very important laws, two laws of international legal importance. It is the laws which, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, are in force. 141. In order to become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, HS should ratify them. As Mr Vice-President has said, it is two contracts, the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the mutual extradition of citizens, as well as the Treaty on Mutual Legal Assistance between the Republic of Croatia and the United States. Since the Republic of Croatia is a full member of the EU, the roof agreement between the Member States of the Union and the United States dates back to 2003, the obligations of the Republic of Croatia as full members are the acceptance of Union law, the common law, as signed by the Union roof agreement with the United States, and there is also an obligation for the Republic of Croatia to apply the roof contract in law of the Republic of Croatia. It should be noted in particular that so far, rules on mutual legal assistance on extradition between the US government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia date back to 1901. So these are international legal instruments, especially in criminal matters that are obsolete, inapplicable, more such offences as are mentioned in those 1901 agreements. They do not exist, so it was necessary to implement this new agreement. About these two laws, these two important international contracts were negotiated in the 11th year, so it didn't come overnight, full of 11. The various governments and various justice ministers ended the negotiations in November 2019. here in the Republic of Croatia, and these two contracts are signed by Mr. Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic in December 2019. in Washington on the side of the Republic of Croatia as a government attorney, and on the side of the United States, the U.S. Attorney General. Given our constitutional obligations and the importance of the matter ahead, we propose to the Croatian Parliament that the contracts in question be ratified and become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195669	Does he want to go before...? Yeah. We've got more replicas, let's go to them first, the first respected representative of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195670	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I hope going to the scene doesn't mean you won't answer the line. Noting the importance of these two agreements, among other things, and because of the fact that it is actually a procedure that Croatia is still conducting under the agreement that the United States has brought together with the Government of the Kingdom of Serbia, what is far more important for us both here and for you in the ministry and for Croatian citizens is the question of how you will be asked according to the state of justice. We have warned several times and also here about the problem of the course of court deadlines, the minister announced last Friday that the law is in preparation, however, at today's session of the rule of law that would regulate the problem of the court deadlines in Croatia does not exist. Please answer me, can we expect him when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195671	Thank you very much. It's not directly related to the subject, but here's the secretary of state to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195672	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Grbin. Although this is not a topic as Justice Minister Mr. Bosnjakovic announced last Friday, it is a set of laws from the judicial portfolio that are not in the cabinet session today, but will be held by the end of this session. We are working on deadlines, we are aware that in this situation affected by both the earthquake and the crisis, the courts do not function, but what I can say responsibly in front of the Justice Department we leave nothing to the case. You know it's complex laws, and I believe that it will come before you soon. So, it is working on it and it is working especially on deadlines and will be debated by representatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195673	Thank you very much. You can stay here. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195674	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State one short question, we know that the United States does not have the practice of handing over its citizens, I am interested in this agreement, and this is the very conclusion of the bill and the confirmation of this international treaty, how much can these things change and how much will it change in practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195675	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195676	This is about very specific cases of criminal co-operation, organised crime, cybercrime, something that is specific. So, so far it's even though it's a '901 deal. Years of extradition of some 40 cases when it comes to these specific criminal acts. If you have read the agreement, we have protected Croatian citizens, so there is no way that everyone who is requested is being extradited, there are special protocols, special procedures. What we had to define over the course of the years, there was already some cooperation, but it wasn't covered by the laws. So we can't say that this agreement put Croatian citizens in a smaller position than American citizens, which is why we've been talking for 11 years, there's no direct extradition. This is a specific matter, and if you have read the articles of the contract, it is about international cooperation when it comes to organised crime and serious crime, and in order to protect both our citizens and their respect for international law, it is necessary first to sign these contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195677	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195678	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm taking the opportunity to ask you a question. Why aren't the courts working? If they can make factories, if they can build buildings, why can't the courts work? So today we have an unusual situation, never in history, the recent history of the Croatian state and at the time of the Homeland War and some other crisis times has happened that the courts do not work, it is simply unacceptable. So there's a way, if there's a way for us to get together here and sit in a smaller volume, that there's less of us, I'm sure there's a way for the courts to work. The second thing, electronic application, as far as lawyers and judges are concerned, is not working. I've heard from more lawyers that the system simply failed. So, two questions. One question is, why don't the courts work? We should and we could work. So we're going to have even more delays in solving a variety of cases. And secondly, why isn't he doing an electronic application to the courts?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195679	Thank you. Again a question that is not directly on the subject, but the Secretary of State is ready to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195680	Thank you very much, Vice President. This direct question concerns the current situation. I can't say that the courts are fully operational, but the courts are working, the judges are solving the cases they took home. In view of the earthquake and the situation of COVID 19, there is no possibility that the courts are working on a full scale, so what we're sure about is that we've been all along preparing e-communication to digitize the system. There are problems of a technical nature, but they are regularly eliminated, so the system works. The Ministry of Justice has made recommendations to all courts, so communication exists, and now we have talks, agreements with the public record chamber of the Republic of Croatia, as well as when it comes to the performances that have stalled in this case and will stand in view of the situation with all our citizens, citizens who are in trouble. And as far as this technical issue is concerned, this may be about two, three cases you've heard, but the Department of Justice, so our walking technicians, they're removing problems. We are aware that, for example, the Zagreb County Court for damage cannot work fully because it is insecure for citizens and parties who would come to court, but in due course it will be removed all. There's gonna be a move.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195681	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed member of the Scyboli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195682	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This agreement concerns cooperation between Croatia and America in the context of suspicious financial transactions in the context of money laundering, I am interested in whether this agreement also relates to what is now coming here to the Croatian Parliament with what has recently appeared in public, which means that private banks in Croatia have been dealing with these dubious financial transactions. So, I'm interested in answering if you have any knowledge of this, do you as the Ministry of Justice have any information and when will the Croatian Parliament report from the CNB that the banks in the Republic of Croatia were dealing with suspicious financial transactions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195683	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195684	Your Honor, this agreement has nothing to do with the current events you listed. You've been waiting 11 years for this signature. In November 2019, we defined 3-4 key points, a key problem that has not led to the conclusion of this agreement. In December 2019, the minister of justice visited the United States, signed an agreement, and now, under the Constitution, the obligation of the Croatian Parliament has been ratified in accordance with Article 141. The Constitution. The timing may seem like that to you, but it has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195685	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195686	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, the importance of this point, this contract between the United States and Croatia on extradition and legal aid should be discussed in my opinion, but I think it's time for you as a representative of the judiciary to ask what is wrong with the moratorium whether there are any measures in the matter of conduct and on the matter of loan to the moratorium, we don't see that it's government measures, so do you have any information that it will be. And of course I asked here on Thursday and the Minister of Justice, your superior, which is why they strike down people in the Split prison of Bilica, because it was news that because they're not protected from the crown, there are infected by the crown. So can you tell what's going on and if there's a prison in Split in Bilica, was there a crown case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195687	Thank you very much. That really has nothing to do with the point, but the secretary of state will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195688	Thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195689	/Intruder: Because it's my job, I'm giving you a warning./
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195690	... of pious procedures, distinguished MPs, we have made certain recommendations and in agreement with the Croatian Public Bookmark Chamber, so all the executive procedures in that specific sense towards the perpetrators will stop, but due to deadlines, the public notebooks will, as so far, prepare a solution that will not be justified, when the situation calms down and this threat will then go to the perpetrators, and only then will the deadlines for the perpetrators be set in order to give the complaint and everything else. As for the loan, you heard it from the banks, the banks gave the moratorium for 3 months with certain reasons and conditions, and all the rest you asked, I think it belongs to some kind of political assessment and your personal and would not want to comment on it. I'm only sure that we have the justice system under control, that as far as the safety of Croatian prisons and 3,300 prisoners have done everything possible to protect them. In Split, there was panic over a particular case that was not in contact with the prison, but a family contact of the wife with an employee of the Justice Department. There's no threat to prisoners in any prison for now. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195691	Thank you. We can still finish our colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195692	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Salapic, today we are witnessing a debate on an extremely important document on which we can say that we have been waiting for more than 118 years and the importance of this document is such that perhaps the US Ambassador to Croatia would be sitting here at the gallery that we are in our assembly, however we are not. It should be said that there is absolutely nothing controversial in this document and that Croatian citizens are in no way in a more unfavourable position and that all rights guaranteed by the Constitution are incorporated into this document. This document is extremely important because, according to an existing document that actually regulates this kind of judicial issue, contemporary crimes, such as cybercrime, terrorism, arms trafficking, drugs, people, were not covered. It will now be possible to establish joint teams and in any case facilitate cooperation in the interests of both countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195693	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195694	Thank you very much, Vice President. I didn't at first, given the situation, I wanted to talk about it as briefly as possible, but we had a high delegation from the U.S. Department of Justice in Sibenik with special respect to our delegation to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have literally translated every article of these agreements into Croatian and commented on all those potentially controversial criminal and legal provisions in accordance with our Constitution and the positive law given the diversity of the American system. So, we've been through it one more day. So this important agreement is given the important political, economic relations between the Republic of Croatia and the United States. Unfortunately, the situation in which we come to cast a shadow in view of the health threat and the problems in the judiciary cannot be fully discussed about the importance of this international legal document because we have a crisis in which we have found ourselves, we protect the system of justice as a whole, when this is all over these political reasons we will definitely see and in particular feel for the future that I hope will be positive for our two countries, two cooperations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195695	Thank you very much. It makes me think that on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative of the Grmoya is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195696	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break because it's obvious he doesn't recognize the moment at all. The MPs want to warn about certain problems related to the coronary epidemic of the virus and as regards the economy and as regards our blocked and as far as the teaching line is concerned, which does not work, they send me parents' messages that they simply cannot, with some small instructions they receive all day, actually work with their children. And it's not right for you to put on points that don't concern us and then still call the MPs if they connect something to what affects us all in society, our citizens, our workers, our craftsmen, our blocked, our parents and our children. So, please consult the President of the Assembly immediately, and he has promised us that the points concerning this crisis will have priority. Yesterday, as MOST, we sent 7 laws regarding resolving economic problems, coming out to meet us, we want to help the government of Croatian citizens. Thank you. I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195697	Thank you very much. Of course I approve of the break, according to our deal, I'll see you at 9.55. THE PURPOSE We're continuing to work because the break's up. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, so then I open the debate and the first one will be the club of HDZ MPs, and time will be shared by the respected representative Ante Bačić and the respected representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195699	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as the State Secretary pointed out to us in the introduction, and here we see through the replicas we are a little off the subject, but I hope that we will now return as long as we have to discuss the crisis itself and everything that is going on in the Republic of Croatia, I think it is important that we continue our normal lives and the functioning of the state and society. On this basis, these two proposals, the final draft laws concerning the validation of international contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the United States under an agreement already signed by the United States and the EU in 2003, are related to two very important legal issues, which are related to mutual legal assistance and related to itself, the extradition agreement itself. Mutual legal assistance is sometimes referred to as judicial aid, the very way in which evidence and data are collected between one country and another in particular for criminal proceedings. At this point unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia and the U.S. have old contracts that have run out and are no longer current. On the basis of this, the government decided last year to start negotiations on new agreements, so the minister of justice, together with the chief state attorney in America, signed in 2019 contracts concerning themselves, mutual legal aid itself and self-delivery itself. They are the cornerstone of the EU-US agreement as roof agreements that work on EU-RH liquids must be monitored, monitored and normally brought into line with its acquis under Article 141 of Regulation (EU) No 141. The Republic of Croatia will eventually become part of the foundation of the Croatian legal system. Normally, they are now the final proposals of the law because in practice international agreements come in accordance with both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution in the Assembly in the Republic of Croatia and they are discussed in one reading because they themselves are concluded between the two states and cannot be now. It is difficult to change now because they are already defined in certain proposals so that they are sent here to the Croatian Parliament only for ratification. to confirm them, which I repeat, we draw from the very foundation of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. We must note that these two very important topics and self-delivery, but also the legal institute of mutual legal assistance, so-called. and judicial aids are also important because in these new conditions and normal and at the level of the international market itself, but international and criminality we come to a system of new forms of criminal activity not to mention cyber-action and terrorism itself. These are simple conditions that stress countries that they need to further strengthen their cooperation and strengthen their own legal order with such international contracts to better cooperate and prevent such forms of new forms of crime. In the articles attached to both contracts, we have defined the very assets and the following starting with the extradition itself and the way the data is delivered and exchanged, what we have heard from the Secretary of State and the establishment of joint teams when we talk about mutual legal assistance and about banking and other fraud itself, the very secrecy of the data exchanged and all other forms of cooperation, so that in the end when we look at these two contracts, and the agreement that the US governments themselves signed with the EU, which is the basis of these international agreements, I believe that this will contribute to further cooperation between our two countries, but also normally on strengthening the legal order of the Republic of Croatia itself. So here we propose normally and ultimately that these two international contracts are. these two final bill proposals and adoptions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195700	Thank you, we will continue with representative Petrijevcanin Vukasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195701	I thank my esteemed colleagues, so it was high time for this document to be brought in. Croatia, as is known as the strategic partner throughout a series of strategic important issues with the United States, is aimed at modernising these issues in judicial matters that have not been resolved so far, sounds amazing, but has acted on a document that was in force since 1901. Or ratified in 1902. In addition to the fact that the document, over a hundred years old, 118 and 119, did not cover modern crimes involving cybercrime, drug trafficking, arms, people, corruptive crimes and all sorts of modern crime, the document was no longer in line with both the contemporary acquis and Croatia as members of the EU and with the Croatian rightful gains of independence. These contracts of exceptional importance have now regulated all important issues and should be said that Croatian citizens are fully protected from extradition and there is no sign of any controversy in this document. Therefore, the aim is to bring a person to justice, the aim is to further modernise, facilitate cooperation, improve, accelerate cooperation between the United States and Croatia in these important judicial issues. It should be said that as far as the criminal offences covered by this law are concerned, it is regulated in Article. 2. and the annex shall specify exactly which offences this document refers to. It should be said that these two documents that we are discussing together today are the result of years of excellent US and Croatian cooperation, primarily in the area of justice, as State Secretary Salapic said, have been co-operated by several governments. The American Embassy colleagues have been working on this document for more than 15 years and that some normal circumstances that I hope will return sooner or later would probably be an American ambassador here because this is really a document of exceptional importance for both states. Both contracts are designed to meet all modern challenges not only of the judiciary but of modern times involving all criminal acts. And it should also be said that these contracts are attached to a roof contract between EU member states and the US, which is signed, and then each country also bilaterally signs the contract. Our contract bilaterally with the United States, as state secretary Salapic mentioned, was signed on 10 December 2019 between the minister of justice and the chief state attorney of the United States, and after that, by ratifying these documents in the Croatian Parliament, they become valid after we have waited for them for more than 118 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195702	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195703	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. There's a document in front of us. Proposal for a law on an agreement between Croatia and the United States relating essentially to extradition and legal aid. We're both together in a debate. As I said at the outset in the replica whether right now it's time for us to discuss it, perhaps, and probably for me, as far as the judiciary is concerned, it's been a lot more important to discuss here and that we Parliamentarians have the opportunity to talk about it. But I will mention only briefly that as far as the extradition itself is concerned, Croatia will hand over everything to them, to any international courts, to any war crimes, anything, American citizens ultimately in all wars have not extradited or extradited their generals, so that we can talk about it. We see that, of course, it's an agreement between the EU, i.e. and above all, between the EU and the US, we see that now watching only Italy as the EU's relationship with the Italians in this crisis, we see that many important political actors are unhappy with the EU's behaviour, and we are now holding the EU's presidency on aid and solidarity in Italy. If you follow this, you will see that the Vice-President of the Lower House Parliament in Italy has even... there the EU flag has moved away and dumped the Italian flag because they feel forgotten by the EU, and Croatia now presides as far as we know the EU. So here the question arises, how much help is the honourable EU secretary of law to the Croatian judiciary at this point in time of monetary interest to me? Is there any kind of financial assistance? And what I'm asking here once again is that citizens are mostly wondering about a moratorium that would have to be, just now people are going to be in a difficult situation because of the non-guilty, but because of the root of the virus. And, of course, we need to talk here about whether or not we're going to be suspended and it's going to be in this period, say half a year, a year as much as we're predicting not only the health crisis, but the crisis and the economic and economic and the performance and, of course, the moratorium on loans. This is what we should be talking about and where the EU is helping Croatia and all its Member States to do this moratorium because as time moves away people will lose their jobs, people will have obligations, people will pay for all obligations of course, and pressures on the economy, everything will be in one problem of not functioning in the catering of the example. So I think it should be a key topic, to talk about these things because we're going to bring people in that they won't have bread. And as far as I hear banks are well liquid, that they have money, and in this way I think that this part of the deal could be arranged mainly on the subject of the performance and blocked our citizens, but we need to know that in Croatia we have a large number of people who are blocked and a large number of people from whom the family depends, in total, when more than 220,000 are added up, let them be summed up with family members that is a million people who are going to be means anyway and without the crisis are in trouble because of our poor legislation. For this reason, I would like once again for the secretary to say when the government will make these proposals here is expected by Croatian citizens. And in the end, I think that this pay phone to the parliamentary deputies is basically an opportunity and a tool to talk about things when certain representatives of the Croatian government come in, to talk about the problems that our citizens have, and it's sad and embarrassing if someone asks a question.../incomprehensible/... that this is why they give reminders in this difficult situation when we should all listen together, at least listen to each other, you have this gift that God gave to everyone, that we listen to and listen to each other, no matter what we think about each other when in a crisis then in a community we can, when the crisis is only common and by listening to each other we can come to certain solutions. So I would also invite all fellow parliamentary representatives no matter what someone in this assembly thinks that God is given and eternal, to talk about citizens' problems, so the people chose us, because silence is what they would like, and only they should speak their views and their opinions, those who have brought the state into this situation where we have never again imports, i.e.. where we are threatened is the food system, raw agricultural land, the legal system does not work, people do not believe in the legal system and of course it is our obligation to talk about these problems. Therefore, Your Honor, Secretary of State, please state what the moratorium on this matter means on this matter and on the moratorium on the crisis caused by the Coron of the Virus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195704	The next club of MPs will be the GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, so de facto it is about confirming two agreements, we confirm them on the basis of the fact that we are a member of the EU. These are two agreements between the EU and the United States, as is known and as you remember, for example, a free trade agreement between Canada and the EU. All such types of agreements are then ratified or confirmed and in national parliaments it is standard to say so. Two agreements, one on extradition between the EU and the United States, and then, consequently, between Croatia and the United States and the other is a mutual legal aid agreement. As there were speeches here, so far as extradition has been used by some type of follow-up agreement of 901 and 2nd respectively, it is not necessary to be lessen as the equivalent of such an agreement was the basis, for example. for the extradition of Notor Captain Dragan, it was used in the procedure and de facto one of the strong arguments that it was he who was extradited to the Republic of Croatia. This is, of course, much more modern and includes, as colleagues and colleagues have already said, a whole series of other crimes that were not simply on the agenda at the time, covering a different view of the judiciary, dramatic changes will not occur with any of these agreements. They both have two important functions, one that Croatia simply completes or ratifys all its obligations and ratifys what it should as a member of the EU, and from that point of view it is logical that we ratify it and the other is that by ratifying such agreements it contributes or corrects let's say some kind of investment climate for American companies in Croatia and vice versa, but of course it is more likely for American companies in Croatia but of course also for Croatian companies in the US because it standardises legal regulation. However, I am taking this opportunity to warn of something with which all governments, a whole series of governments in Croatia have struggled for a very long time and which would dramatically contribute to improving the investment climate, and also has to do with Croatian membership in the EU, which is to abolish visas for Croatian citizens when entering the United States. You know that there is even a regulation under which, which will not apply but exists, which then introduces visas for American citizens for EU Member States unless the visa-free regime extends to all EU members by a certain deadline after their entry. As far as Croatia is concerned, we have one problem that is not even directly related to people living in Croatia, we have a problem of too many people who have exceeded the duration of the visa to stay in the United States and because of this we cannot formally even get that visa release, but it would indeed be one serious step and would contribute not only, especially after this whole crisis, to the real improvement of the investment climate on both sides and the possibility of economic cooperation between Croatia and the United States. There is then also a famous agreement on avoiding double taxation that goes in the package almost and these are, say, two big steps. These are two small steps, but they need to be taken and the GLAS club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195706	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195707	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course these two agreements that are here before us today, which have been translated into these two ratification laws, should be supported. I don't think there are any doubts about it, and I think there will be complete agreement in the Croatian Parliament. Of course it's a little absurd when we look at it, especially this extradition agreement to see the date of the basic contract that we're kind of suspending. This contract was concluded more than a hundred years ago, the contract does not correspond to today's situation in criminal law or today's state of affairs in international relations. This contract is not adequate for changes caused by some new crimes, such as those concerning both money laundering and committed via electronic systems, because in 1901 these crimes were simply not taken into consideration by anyone. That's why this is necessary. Unfortunately, we have waited for more than 10 years to negotiate, but it has come to the agenda and it should be accepted. However, it should also be said that legal aid will not work if the justice apparatus in the Republic of Croatia does not work, and that is what I have spoken of several times and what I have pointed out in the replica to the Honorable Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we must take measures as soon as possible to ensure the regular functioning of the Croatian judicial apparatus. For days, I was talking about the fact that the European Court of Human Rights made a decision on 16.3. The European Court of Human Rights did not remain alone in these measures, similar to the measure of simpleness, an important measure for Croatian citizens and citizens has brought us neighbouring Republic of Slovenia, they have responded and they have made sure by their reaction that the Slovenian judicial system which has many problems similar to or almost the same as Croatia, as it works. Unlike Slovenia, Croatia is faced with slightly bigger problems, among other things because of the earthquake caused by the damaged building of courts in Zagreb. For this reason, I appeal once again, and I know that I may be boring to some, but this is extremely important, bring or suggest as soon as possible before the law that will correct these problems, either through one law on courts, whether through amendments to other laws, although I believe that through one law supplementing the law in courts or a special law with a certain period of time, this would be possible much better and more systematic in view of the crisis. Also remember, it is necessary to amend the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court because the suspension of deadlines pending before the Constitutional Court is not possible by ordinary law, it is not possible, as far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, only the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, and here we are bound by a slightly more complex procedure, we must have three votes and when we are in an urgent procedure, first when the text is established, secondly when it is determined when the proposal and only the third vote by the two-thirds majority to which we amend the law. So I'm asking you to hurry up because it just needs to be done. But don't stop at this. As every crisis presents a certain opportunity to improve in many things and as I am deeply convinced that many state bodies will continue to function in the way that they started during the crisis. Let us remember just two weeks ago the situation on HZZ when we were faced with huge orders and almost within 24 hours of the decision that applications are no longer required to be made in person but can be submitted electronically, let us use this crisis to bring to the maximum the Croatian judiciary to introduce electronic communications, to ensure that as much as possible no more of this has to take place in the eyes, it does not have to take place by physical presence in the court building. Let us take this opportunity to reform ourselves and to use the things we apply today in the years to come, not more because we are fighting infection than because we want our system to be more efficient, to make our system better and to be closer to the citizen and to the citizens of the Republic. Once again, we will support these proposals of the law, but we appeal to you from the Ministry of Justice to do what is far more important at this time for Croatian citizens and citizens, which is to refer to a bill that regulates court deadlines and regulates the way Croatian courts work in the time of the crown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195708	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is one of the Independent Youth Lists, which will be spoken by the respected representative Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195709	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. So it's an agreement between the United States and the Republic of Croatia, a respected state secretary and someone from the HDZ Club said this agreement was being discussed. it's been negotiating for 11 years. I am interested in what reasons has this agreement been negotiated for so long because you have not specifically informed us about all the elements then because your speech was within five minutes, if so, and you have said that this is such a concrete agreement that has been negotiated for even 11 years, so I am more interested in what it includes both for Croatian citizens and for our judicial and political system? The aim of this agreement between Croatia and the United States is to better cooperate and improve the fight against organised crime and corruption and their transnational expansion. In particular, it concerns cybercrime, the fight against terrorism and other serious crimes. The interesting thing about this agreement is that it's retroactive, so it's in art. 3. which defines this agreement says that when the agreement enters into force, it will refer to all those situations that were before this agreement was in force. It can be extremely good, and it can be one flaw. It can be extremely good what really happens in Croatia is a crime of different proportions, so it is now for example. reveals the same about these suspicious financial transactions. In many DORH reports and other competent institutions, everyone put that focus on the fact that money laundering and suspicious financial transactions are indeed in Croatia. However, the Croatian system was unable to deal strongly with this huge problem because it is criminal activities that are truly huge and powerful, and our judiciary is known to be subject to corruption, especially when it comes to these large criminal activities. Just in time. The first law speaks of measures related to banks, and as I said, this refers to what was last mentioned in public. And I personally sent even one request to the president of the Parliament and the chairman of the Committee on Finance and Budget to inform us what is going on in the Croatian banks, for which reasons the CNB began to monitor closely these elements about money laundering. So it's embarrassing for me that we MPs don't even know what's going on, and it's really a big deal. The problem is also that here's the coronary virus has put all the important things aside and in fact in public space is currently only being discussed, but in the background there are other things happening and of course not all about the coronary virus. The great forces are fighting over power, about the impact on the geo-political level, so these are the times of crisis when other things happen in the background. But I've just read in the media that American institutions have exposed these suspicious financial transactions. There is again the responsibility of the CNB, so why should we need American institutions or other foreign institutions to expose some of the internal things that are happening in the Republic of Croatia without our institutions themselves having any idea before them? So we need foreign institutions to send signals because our institutions are inert. The CNB has a frame that could easily detect these suspicious transactions that took place in Croatian banks, but they did not. Neither did it nor about Raiffeisen's cooperative, nor did the CNB do it in terms of the Swiss franc, so wherever the CNB regulator was supposed to act, he didn't act. And no one calls for Governor Vujčić's responsibility except for us certain opposition MPs, but certainly his responsibility in this context is very large. I am interested in how this mutual assistance will work, I would like you to explain to me a little bit more how this mutual assistance will work, what form of cooperation will be between Croatian and American institutions, because I certainly would not want it to be covered by this agreement to come to some centralisation that will ultimately reduce Croatian sovereignty and teach it to other foreign institutions. So in these negotiations, I hope that since you've been negotiating for 11 years that you've been paying attention to such elements that it doesn't happen because it's clear that American institutions are much more capable and capacitated than Croatian institutions. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195710	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and the New Policy on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja should speak. He's gone. So the next club of representatives will speak, which is the Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and the time will be shared by respected representatives Zekanovic and Glasovic. First of all, the respected representative Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195711	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We live in a world where there are countries with less influence like Croatia, there are countries that have a greater impact, which are also superpowers like the United States, such as Russia, such as China, and we can say that the EU has one major influence in the world and can be considered a kind of superpower. And we have chosen our alliance, we have chosen it through the EU, which unfortunately these days has shown its true face, the one of European selfishness and is falling apart by seams, but we have chosen our own willful alliance, it is the NATO Pact. The North Atlantic military alliance, in which there is a wave of countries that are members of the EU, is also Croatia, of course, the United States. So we chose our allies. They're logical, I'll say. It is about countries or countries built by Croats, in which Croatians have long moved, emigrated and built together with immigrants from other European countries and for this reason, America today is one of the leaders of the world precisely because of its diversity and it is our ally and it is good to create pacts, alliances and to be closer and closer to that country because it is our and our natural ally, and in this once imperfect world we have chosen both our political and military allies, which are the United States. However, when, I'm in favour of this contract and I'm going to vote for it and I welcome it, but still, here's a little bit, for all those who are watching on television this, this debate, to explain a little bit what this is about. Speaking of legal cooperation and extradition, someone mentioned the example of the extradition of Captain Dragan. We welcome that. But no one mentioned the extradition of Croatian generals to The Hague, e.g. General Gotovina or Pok. The martyrs of General Praljko, who also, thanks to a military, pardon, had been extradited to The Hague tribunal by a treaty with The Hague tribunal. There is still General Mile Petkovic. We've forgotten him, the crown is a crisis, so we don't remember those people who today with this crisis or without this crisis are suffering very badly. And when we talk a little bit about a world context, which brings us this, though, to know what awaits us. We've got Wikileaks affairs, we've got Julian Assange, who went from Sweden to Great Britain where an international warrant was launched, and then he's gone to the Ecuadorian embassy, and he's still waiting for extradition, or he's hiding there. We have an example of Turkey and America, Fethullah Gülen, theirs I have, a Turkish I have, a religious leader, otherwise a man suspected of attempting a military coup in Turkey recently. Turkey's trying to get it from America, America doesn't give it away. So these are the examples we can meet tomorrow. So either Julian Assange or Gülen, so that's what they are, so I'd say two key figures in the political sense, which can happen to Croatia tomorrow. And let's be prepared for that, we chose our ally. We chose our ally. If Assange or Gülen happens to us, we have nothing to think about anymore. We'll hand these men over to our ally, and he'll do the same to us, hand over Captain Dragan and so on. But I'd still like one thing. I wish we never had the situation that happened to us when we co-operated with the Hague tribunal when Croatian military leaders, Croatian generals, Croatian heroes, had to extradite to the Hague tribunal, which is what I would not want. And I'd like the Department of Justice to take care of what I said, that in a few years, I don't know why this would have happened. I still have to mention the crown crisis here one more time. The world is changing, America is a superpower. Both military and economic, but here I still have to say that things are changing and that we who have chosen our alliances must remain firmly with each other. Here, colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195712	A respected representative of Glasnovic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195713	Dear colleagues. A miracle of miracles. We now have in the Croatian media space, cultural space, in politics talks, we hear mantra, we have to worry about the future, not the past. And look now. Today we ratify the 1905 agreement. We always compare ourselves to America, Scandinavia, but they're not the same problems as their cultural space, the same environment here, metal, etc., and we always run away from one key, key point. Here's the deal. America has never delivered its soldier to anyone... An agreement with a country to do so, a criminal court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Zekanovic mentioned our general. That's unimaginable. '72. Mr., one example,... Lieutenant, the U.S. Army, killed 300, 400 civilians in Quang Tri province, Vietnam, no one was punished for it, he went to prison, he was there maybe a year, got forgiveness from the Secretary of Defense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a jewelry store in Washington today, somewhere in my knowledge. Americans, they do not forgive treason, betray, because they are a sovereign state, we are not yet sovereign state and nonstop deputies here ignore a key project that is never here... And it's a lustration project because there are people sitting here today who have worked against their peoples in the former system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They've never... The lustration of all laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is all a smoke screen. This, you have Disneyland,... And this is still "Ubobaland." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] SoA has been making as many as 5, 6 years ago a statement that hundreds of people were working against, who were in the intelligence system in Croatia, against their people, the enemy. Where are these people, where's the list of these people? Where's the public disgrace? The Americans, of course, tried their soldiers. In World War II, they hung 150 for robbery and rape, etc., one was shot for desertion. This isn't popular you need to say it now. We needed some of our shooters, most of them for war profit. And what Mr. Schibol said, where's the money that was transferred to the bank accounts outside. America has 16 intelligence agencies, we mentioned Mr. Asaange, I wouldn't like to be in his shoes, if he gets extradited he goes to a court in Louisiana, there's only one judge there no jury and he won't go out there unscathed. And here we walk heads who have worked all their lives against the Croatian state and today overnight have turned into cosmopolitans and Democrats. There is a man sitting there who did not call him well, the code name Odysseus, who ratted out students at the University of Split and we play cosmopolitans and Democrats. He won't talk about himself. I've been in every prison in Croatia, I haven't talked about it before, since 2000, 2002, from... where I have left my papers to Blackiemer because when they came to power these newly-composed communists, they stayed, left, right, wrong parties then showed the right face. There I still had documents in Samobor where I sat like a fool all night, me and a friend, then they brought me into Medvesčak Police Department, a Croatian general. They don't care about the Croatian state, they saved their asses infiltrating all the pores of Croatian society and I wonder this, when we'll wake up, when the Croatian people will wake up and seek the origin of the property of these cartilage and war profiteers, and start not from the '90s but before the '90s, etc., off the Shore accounts. Is one president promising us he'd pay back the money from the outside, and he could start bringing back those $50,000 that he somehow accidentally lost out there somewhere he got from Australia. This battle continues. And we are still generously paying institutions and media, magazines to wage war against the Croatian state. I don't know how much time I have here. Imagine you write in one... in America how a diary shared there, there's Nick Titanic there, that someone write there when you think the American state is going to fail, that's what someone wrote there. When do you think the destruction of the Croatian state will happen? There's a war going on against this country, we're silent, we're beaten over our heads, and we're generously paid by the institutions, and then we're still at war against this country. Here, that's scary. This is a test for the state today, this test, these days, these weeks, these months, if we're going to get out of this crisis as a sovereign people, or we're going to continue that anal kranil inversion and pretend we're still cosmopolitans, and we're not out of the one-party system yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195714	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by respected Secretary of State Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195715	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm glad Mr. Grmoya knows what I'm thinking, but I think I'm obliged to answer with regard to the importance of this subject and the situation we're in. This is the procedure, Mr. Škibola was envisaged in regular circumstances that after the Croatian government accepted the completion of negotiations with the US side, after the minister of justice signed an agreement in Washington with the US chief state attorney, that the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the Constitution, was in line with the article. The 141st has ratified this important international document. Why has it been so long? I said that it was more than one Croatian government for 11 years, it was our obligation when we joined the EU in 2013 to take over the EU acquis, the 2003 roof agreement was signed with EU member states, but bilaterally, however, it is the obligation of every country to ratify it in the national parliament has now come to a turn. Why for many years? Because it is a completely different legal system, the American, Croatian and European something is that the institutes that Americans have in their legal system do not know Croatian legal system. To protect Croatian citizens in specific matters such as specific issues, it is not only a criminal aspect, it is political, international and interstate. We discussed the instruments of the institutes to adapt them to our law which the American system knows, and Croatian does not know. We have taken care of the fact that we especially protect Croatian citizens from exclusions that are not necessary, and this is about the procedures that Croatia can carry out in its judicial system. So, if a crime is committed, the crime is a criminal offence, whether it was committed in Croatia or in America, and it's a similar crime, and we have to prosecute the perpetrator. So we took special care that every aspect of both extradition and international mutual legal assistance, you asked what it was. These are joint teams, experts, applicants for interviewing parties either in one country, or in another country,... a video conference, preventing cybercrime at the level that has to be handled urgently, so there is no time for any other procedure, we have solved all of this through mutual negotiations, but all of this is written in this law which are the elements of these agreements. So there are no secrets or hiding, it's a very important document, but given the situation of the coronary virus, the situation of the earthquake, we've estimated that this brief conversion was enough for you as advocates to get materials in laws. And it is also my duty to say that the Croatian judiciary must function with these contracts without them and it works. There are important other open topics, look, Mrs Pusic, these are visas, we were supposed to end it somewhere in the 11th month this year, the problem of double taxation with the United States are all important elements that primarily encourage the economy, the free movement of our citizens to America and so on. So we did not spread the subject in view of the situation, but I am obliged to say that we have taken care of everything, and I am also obliged to say that the Croatian judiciary works in these difficult times, that we have prepared all the laws for deadlines, related to the performance of the prison system only in silence. We do not want to panic because in prisons we protect 3,400 people, and with these measures we protect all of our citizens and I am sure that we will not make a mistake in steps when it comes to guaranteeing the constitutional rights of all our citizens, regardless of whether it is criminal cases, whether it is civil matters, whether it is deeds, land-based books. I'm sure no citizen of the Republic of Croatia will be harmed by this severe crisis that has found the whole country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195716	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The Honorable representative of the bush first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195717	Dear Mr. Salapic, I beg you to report to the people, so these e-registries have been introduced in the system of e-citizens, please appeal to the government, not the employers can fill it themselves, but the workers have to do it, they don't know that one good part of the workers doesn't know how to use the system of e-citizens, they don't know how to remove the e-pass, the business is in big trouble and please respond urgently. Here I am asked by a man who is involved in installing electrical circuits of installations, who managed to do business during this crisis, but now he has a big problem with these e-passes because workers of every pass have to pull out their own e-civil system, people don't know it, they can't do it for them, I think it's much more important than what you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195718	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195719	Well, it's not my theme, but I think by 6 April, by Monday, this system is working out and that all the problems in walking will be solved by Monday, that applies to both our employees of the Justice Department and everyone else. I'm sure they won't be allowed to meet anywhere, so by Monday they'll be worth the old pass. From hour to hour things happen, things change, so the system wants to be introduced, that the system is under control to prevent the spread of this vicious disease, but it's also not going to bring people into something that they have to work for themselves, and they don't know it, I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195720	The next is a replica of respected Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195721	Dear Secretary of State, you responded in your report to fellow Scyboli, and I thought you would also answer me that you would tell me that we are leading or that you are taking care that neither General Gotovina happens to us in any foreign court, nor the general means Croatian martyr General Praljak or still imprisoned, General Petkovic, I have not heard from you, so here I am interested and I want to hear whether you have foreseen this contract that such situations that we have had in the past few decades after the Homeland War are no longer happening. If by adopting this contract tomorrow we're going to have to retake some state, some tribunal, any court anywhere in the world we have to hand over our heroes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195722	Secretary of State, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195723	Thank you, Vice President. I did not avoid answering you, dear representative Zekanovic, it is two completely opposite things. First of all, I am personally pleased that Mr. General Gotovina has proved his innocence in The Hague. The founding of The Hague court took place at the request of the Croatian side when Yugoslavia fell apart, war crimes were committed, The Hague court was then special to the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda founded by the UN Security Council. The Hague court has its pluses and its minuses, and now is not the time for me to comment on it, I only know that these agreements will protect our citizens in the area of criminal justice as regards extradition, mutual legal assistance as regards the pleas between the two states of the Republic of Croatia and the United States. I am sure there have been gaps in the functioning of The Hague tribunal, but I am also sure that Croatia has done everything to protect its citizens, generals who have found themselves before The Hague. I think that now a wider story about the situation where General Gotovina and all the other generals who have proven their innocence would go in the direction of an entirely one debate which, given the situation in Croatia, is not appropriate and necessary, and I believe that you understand what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195724	Comrade Zekanovic, you probably want to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195725	Dear Vice President, I demand a five-minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on this law. I must point out here that despite the UN court's condemnation of several war criminals who have committed war crimes in Croatia and neighbouring BiH, every Croatian man, every patriot and every Croat and Croat has remained a bitter taste in their mouths. It's nice to meet you, of course, that General Gotovina was released, but no one can tell me he's an example. General Petkovic or General Slobodan Praljak or any other prisoner Croatian General in The Hague court criminal. I agree that this topic may not be appropriate nowadays, the only appropriate topic today is that, meaning the press conference of the crisis headquarters, means one new body run by the Croatian state, and we're not going to talk about anything anymore, all other topics fall into another plan. They don't fall and they can't fall. Of course, we need to fight all the forces against the crown of the crisis, we need to save our country from this crisis, meaning all possible health measures, but we must not be allowed to suffer from the coronary crisis, or this great epidemic, from some bad laws and that Croatian citizens forget about other important periods of Croatian history and other dangers that lurk. So, besides tracking the cell phone that the Croatian government is trying to introduce, the Croatian government wants to ignore all the key things of Croatian history and therefore I ask for a break to point out that Croatian citizens would get a chance to think again about these words that I speak. General Petkovic, General Slobodan Praljak and many others are not war criminals and I do not want any new Hague court to happen anywhere in the world thanks to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195726	Thank you very much, of course we'll take a break. At 10 and 56 we'll meet again. THE PURPOSE CONTINUED AFTER THE COUNTRY We are going to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195728	International contracts discussed between the United States and the Republic of Croatia on extradition and legal aid These two contracts, which are essentially EU signatories. We, being part of the EU, are now just what needs to be done. However, when we talk about this contract when there is already a secretary, then we must say that Croatia as an EU member who has joined the EU has now passed and the seven-year period has simply been adapted sometimes. It gave its sovereignty, not partly in association, but essentially in a way that it would be given its sovereignty in addition to certain international agreements or agreements, i.e. It was even an advocacy before we joined the EU that we had no power to protect our sovereign interests, it is an exclusive economic belt, these are mainly about the pressure of the EU at the time on Croatia, which was by handing out Croatian generals, so we had to give up what I said exclusively to the economic belt, we had to agree that agricultural land had that from this year on we could buy the parties legal and natural persons i.e. and this is not a little agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia that should have been processed to think about sovereign interests. I also gave the law in the procedure. that all the land is divided which is unprocessed at this point is the coronary virus and that we start and start in our own production of self-sufficiency and hope that this law will also come together and that the minister from the second ministry will see that the policies that are most visible in Italy and the EU's attitude towards Italy have been missed so far as we are chairman. And of course here I mentioned that I expect already if we have entered the EU in the way we entered the EU, and we see that the prime minister is calling for great experience within the EU, great friendships... within the EU, we are holding the EU, here I expect that we will also get some support from the Croatian citizens paying and membership in large amounts, so that we will get financial support in solving all problems within Croatia, and mainly within the judiciary that does not work. The most trusted secretary of Croatian citizens is in your ministry of justice. So here's what other colleagues have mentioned when I look at it, it's the problem of the appeal deadlines in certain procedures. Who says that in one court I don't even know if it happened in one court that someone can't be infected with the coronary virus and go to the whole court in isolation, and appeal deadlines go. We also see problems with the passes of certain people from certain areas that are not very interesting, especially older people, and there are certain legal procedures from the executives, these, those all procedures, therefore the appeal deadlines of the triba moratorium and those deadlines. If there's a 15-day appeal somewhere if you didn't do it, of course you'd be going to trial. I'm also interested in whether you've done something about it and made us send our citizens a message, is that important to our citizens, these are appeal deadlines, a very important question, are the appeal deadlines set by the moratorium on appeal deadlines? There's a moment in the process that's being conducted, it's mostly a question here when we're talking about passes, we have problems that people don't have mostly in rural areas where I come from, probably in all municipalities, but we have more municipalities and cities than the United States, and they're all determined now by the foundation of the National Civil Protection Staff, they're all in a blockade and without a pass they can't get to a certain lawyer. So these are very important things, very important and life-threatening things and people are calling for that problem all of us MPs are expecting us to take this out, and you're expected to give an answer. Is the moratorium on appeal deadlines, the same thing I asked you about is what's significant about the moratorium on the loan and like I said about executive procedures. These are important questions and I think we just have to give answers to people. And other political options Parliamentarians suggest it, but we don't get an answer from you. Here again, I would like you to answer clearly what is going on and what are your measures, and the measures must be urgent and effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195729	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195730	Thank you very much, Vice President. So you need to go back to the metrics. There's no talking about losing any sovereignty to these documents, and that needs to be said out loud and clear. Connecting The Hague court to these documents, there's absolutely no connection. This is not about the extradition of Croatian citizens to the United States or vice versa, it is not about dealing with these documents nor would the Croatian state agree to this, nor would America agree to this, but it is about simplifying the maximum. If a citizen of the state x committed, say, a serious crime of trafficking in children, women, weapons and hides in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and is sought by the United States or vice versa, then it is done here that it is regulated by this document. And we are all safe and I believe that we agree that we do not want to hide such perpetrators of such crimes in our territory and be some kind of oasis for the perpetrators of criminal acts, neither do we want to, nor do we need to go in that direction at all. Therefore this document, i.e. these two united documents, are quite useful. If we are talking about the experience of the United States in these problems, or in these judicial issues, then we have all agreed that their experience is precious, that their experience is of world scale and that they have a great experience especially in disclosing organised crime precisely in these drug chains, in cybercrime, in all these important contemporary criminal acts that are regulated by this contract. From this document or these two documents I think and it is not only my personal opinion because I am not a legal expert but also the opinion of those who know more about it than I do that the Republic of Croatia can benefit only. First, we can benefit because we don't want to be an oasis to hide criminals on our territory, neither we, nor the United States, can benefit, therefore and educationally in terms of professional teams that if a team between the United States and the Republic of Croatia is to expose and bring justice to some kind of criminal chain, some grouped organized criminal gang or individual, I think their experience can only benefit us, any organised crime in question. Also if the citizens of some country x here want to stay, here find their haven, it won't be possible. But it should be made clear once again that this does not mean the extradition of Croatian citizens because all rights guaranteed by the Constitution are still rights guaranteed by the Constitution and by positive legal regulations. The Republic of Croatia has lost nothing to these documents, I say responsibly. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I've claimed and I say again now, the Republic of Croatia can only win. Why have you waited so long? It was waiting because we were ratified in 1901 and 1902, respectively, by a document called "A Treaty between the United States and the Kingdom of Serbia on the mutual release of fugitives from justice", which, the Republic of Croatia was even in Austria-Hungarian at the time. So, we're the former state, Yugoslavia took over the contract by succession, so we took it again after our independence. So our legal gain is to say so in a colloquial sense was lagging behind and we had to modernise it. Each government has given its pain in its own sense, but since the Secretary of State said that the US acquis and the European acquis are different in some cases, then it lasted as long as it lasted. When they signed a roof contract with the US member then it was expected that the Republic of Croatia would sign and bilaterally and the Republic of Croatia did so, I said on December 10, 2019, and the parliament would now ratify these documents and behind this we would have had a completely adequate platform so that we could deal with what we were dealing with in some superficial way so far, I would say that when it was the case, let's say that we have an example of several cases there were, and one of the cases was without laying down a name that the person was accused of a certain criminal act which was not covered by this old law and imagine that if it were not for the person to be brought to justice, it had to be sought out in that list of criminal acts whether it was a criminal offence which was in that law of 1901, so it was by chance that it could have been extradited, and if it was not for the murder he had actually remained free from justice. I don't think that's gonna be a case anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195731	A representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic came forward for free of charge. Excuse me, this is an individual debate at this point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195732	It's all right. Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we currently have almost one million coronary patients in the world. We also have about 50,000 people who died unfortunately due to the infection of the coronary virus. In the U.S. today, there are about 200,000 people who are suffering from coronarys, and the number of deaths is growing terribly, and of course we feel guilty about it. And I will repeat what I said earlier, the United States is a Croatian ally, and the Republic of Croatia is an American ally. And we chose our ally and we joined the NATO Pact. And I'm going to say that there are strong links between America and the Republic of Croatia through Croatian migration, through the Croats who built that country and today they're building it and today they're dealing with all the concerns and troubles that the American people are carrying. And that's what's important to emphasize. I believe in an honest real partnership through the NATO Pact and through these contracts when we sign both bilaterally and as the EU, and that story ends. But here I still have to replicate a small part of my colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. So, when the Hague court was created to encourage the Republic of Croatia to solve war crimes in the area of the former state or in the space of course and the Republic of Croatia, then no one expected, no one expected that Croatian generals would end up in The Hague, no one. And then if I from this pay phone, which is legitimate, express one concern about the experience of my people, because of the experience of my people that this must not happen, and we must prevent it, then it is legitimate and fine. I know this law does not define it, but I, as an agent at HS, warned the ministry representatives to make sure that Praljak, Gotovina, Petkovic or any other Croatian martyr in any international court in any country never happens again. I mentioned the examples of Asang, Gulen, of these things, we must be ready tomorrow. That's what this agreement will provide. And here's still a very interesting thing to mention, it's mentioned, I haven't studied it in 1902. The Republic of Croatia signed this agreement. My colleague, it's not the Republic of Croatia. So Croatia signed this agreement by entering into this agreement by entering the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, or the month before the Slovenians, Croats and Serbs, I presume. Right? It's 1918. A year, and with this period 16 years ago, we have absolutely no connection, absolutely no connection, no more than '14. For years we have fought with them who have signed this agreement, and of course this is about the Kingdom of Serbia, so we were then in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, it's ancient history, but here's just one small object, one small remark on that side. So I'm going to repeat today in the world we have one situation to choose alliances. We have chosen our allies, they are located across the Atlantic, they are in the North Atlantic military alliance and they are in the Economic Union with us, with many bilateral agreements and I am to strengthen this alliance because together we belong to a Western civilization, and we see that the world is still far away from one global understanding and common progress and that we must seek out allies and we have found them in an imperfect world.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195733	The replica was reported by Pertievcan Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195734	Thank you very much. I did not say that Croatia signed something, the Kingdom of Serbia signed in 1901. With the U.S. and ratified in 1902, she took over the former Yugoslavia by concession and then took over after my independence. That's exactly what I said and you know it. And secondly, as far as the Hague tribunal is concerned, it's all legitimate to speak and professor. Miroslav Tudjman was the last book he wrote dedicated precisely to irregularities in the trials at The Hague tribunal where many of our generals were passing through the entire Calvary and Gogoth and trying to prove their innocence. Fortunately, some have proven, and we hope those who are not yet able to prove it. No one said the Hague tribunal in its form was positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195735	Replicate response, MP Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195736	My colleagues, Petrijevcanin, you said exactly how well you quoted yourself from an individual debate, but you did not quote from a speech in front of a club where you did not say this way, where I did not study the history of international relations that Croatia was when it was in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy of this agreement. So we can only talk about 1918. A year, but not since 1902. A year. As for the UN tribunal, unfortunately all those who are still there, I will repeat that there is General Petkovic there they are unfortunately left for mercy and mercy. It is a great honor for Mr. Tudjman to write books, but the Croatian state has forgotten General Milivovo Petkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195737	MP Tomislav Panenic also applied for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195738	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Maybe 1901. It was a long time ago, but I would still come back at the present time and cite some real problems that neither this ratification that should be carried out will be solved. The first question is visas. By joining the EU, we probably all expected that we would also achieve all the rights as they achieve all the obligations of EU membership. One of these rights is also that the EU represents all its members and is seeking the same rights for all citizens, any member state. We have discrimination about the US that visas for our citizens with three other EU countries Bulgaria, Romania and Cyprus are not approved. It's a little cynical when America, their ambassador, recommend that as many of our businessmen who seem to be the only such acceptable category or perhaps officials politically as our former president apply for visas, then bring down the rate of denied visas to below 3%, which is their criterion. Right now, we're somewhere about 4% denied, so it was announced by the end of 2020. The year we're going to fall below 3%, it counts at the end of September. In view of the ruling administration of their President Trump, who at the time of his rise then makes decisions, he has also made a decision to limit the movement of people from the Schengen area, and what we are forgetting is likely to make it difficult for us who need visas to get visas and yet there will be the largest number of those who have been rejected and nothing without a visa regime by the end of 2020. Years. Now, while discussing and harmonising with the US administration, it should be pointed out that the need to lift visas is something that we believe is also the fluid of what citizens have decided, which is to be an EU member state and to be observed as such. Is this how we're separated by exactly the United States that should be ours and what our government says is the greatest ally, we're not in that category. And it is very demanding to follow now and it is very demanding to follow now on the one hand we have an aggressive policy of Russia that achieves its political, strategic political goals in the Republic, is increasingly present and increasingly offers significant benefits that we have so far since the US administration just listened to in nice words. We got some military equipment, so we boasted about it, but let's not forget who it was that blocked the purchase of fighter aircraft from Israel, just our American allies. They were the ones who hitched the whole job when it was already done. Now under these conditions of the economic crisis that comes when we will realise the issue of the purchase of the aircraft. Now Trump should be the one to correct his mistake and give Croatia as they give others and one part of the squadron to the plane so that at least we can bridge the most important needs we have. Russia did not forget to give both Mongolia and Serbia gifts, so let's see more of these great United States powers to recognize us who have been their loyal partner all these years and to solve our needs. And one of the LNG strategic projects depends precisely and even more on their needs, so I hope that in this project too they will give considerable assistance to not only the cost of Croatia and security, the energy security of all parts of the EU that depend on the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195739	Representative Zekanovic called in a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195740	Dear fellow Panenic, you said one fact, but I would still interpret it a little differently. America has not made it impossible for us to obtain planes, but is an incompetent Croatian government, so first of all, with Andrej Plenkovic, the president of the Croatian government was not able to excavate, arrange for the purchase of planes, so these planes are not purchased as I do not know any other product on the world market, he is agreeing politically at the highest level. And Andrej Plenkovic and his crew around him they thought it was buying like I don't know a truck or a bike or anything else. So, only the Croatian incompetent government is because it has not agreed in advance, it has failed to realise the acquisition. And later she cheated on the people that there was a mistake in the procedure, no procedure. Only there was no political force, no will to buy planes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195741	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195742	Dear Representative Zekanovic, we have learned from our prime minister so far that he is always strutting around with big words, and when concrete realization comes, there is a whole series of problems. The decisions he was supposed to make in the government were also influencing, and I agree with the acquisition of the plane, if it were communicable, the negotiated would certainly not have been their US ambassador the first one to state the fact that there was nothing to do with that job. The US Ambassador has its headquarters in Zagreb, can be in contact every day, and if it was unclear how Croatia actually arranged the job, we have a big problem talking to our largest military ally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195743	For the final word on behalf of the Club, I apologize, please be patient you have the possibility of a replica representative Glasnovnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195744	You know, every debate we each have to support the facts. Israel tried to get the planes of combating Croatia to the United States, but since patents for weapons systems, navigations and others are also a secret of this state secret that is the problem of the state of Israel and ours, it becomes our problem, and this is the state that received $34 billion military aid from the United States and the blame is their not US, and that is what needs to be clarified. We also need to clarify what our priorities are about defenses. NATO this in Italy base 15 minutes away from this from Croatia and NATO is one collective security organisation. That's why I don't always know we're comparing ourselves with someone else, but we have to be aware ourselves that we have to rely on ourselves, on our beaks, and no one else. It's nothing else. [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195745	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195746	My esteemed colleague, I think in that ping-pong between the two great allies of the United States and Israel, we were a collateral sacrifice. As far as I'm concerned, I can make it right for both of us. Israel can solve this problem, the United States can, I know only one thing that Andrej Plenkovic can't because if he could have arranged it with his biggest allies with those who give maximum support, we wouldn't have a visa, and we'd have planes, the American gas would have run through LNG and everything would be great. But when we talk about strategic things, let's forget what truck or some detail of other equipment or support, but I really expect the United States to finally show and money, right, to show that something they invest financially in those they consider strategic partners in this area of Europe to eventually It's not just in words that this support turns out to be. [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195747	The MOST representative's club reported for the closing statement on their behalf will be by representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195748	Dear secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The contracts Croatia sign in this case with the United States, of course, which was our legal obligation to, on the basis of EU accession, so that those praises that we have heard from certain clubs that this is something magnificent that has been done, it is neither magnificent nor great, but it is a commitment that the Republic of Croatia must, of course, apply on the basis of what is an EU member and that is how we need to talk, and not praise as a government has done something huge. Of course, here was mentioned why we would doubt this contract and our government. So why shouldn't I? I can specify certain at this point means significant things that have fallen a little in the way, and that's, say, the Marrakech compact. Here. Why didn't all EU members and allies sign the Marrakech compact? Now, the refugee crisis is a little rusty because of the coronary virus, and Croatia is. Here, I'm interested in why this international agreement, distinguished secretary of state, Croatia has agreed to be in, agrees to this Marrakech Agreement? Even though this parliament has not been given the opportunity to discuss it. It's not, it's not a question of trust, of mistrust. I know that we'd just like to talk about crisis headquarters now, that they're making statements, but there's life after this and there's a huge and economic crisis waiting for us, and we also know about the coronaryvirus of health, and, of course, the judicial crisis that doesn't stop. And the biggest mistrust the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have already when we talk about legal aid between the United States, Croatia, the EU, the largest mistrust Croatian citizens have in the judiciary. It's a fact, and now we can talk about this Agreement in a way that, of course, we should rely on ourselves and our paws, of course, that if we were allies, if we were in NATO to be a minimum, if we were to give our sons on missions that were numerous, international missions of the military that were even where our soldiers were more like clay pigeons, now we came to our senses, we should withdraw those soldiers. Well, we could have gotten, say, planes under much better conditions than other states, and now it's a matter of dignity, sovereignty, and that mental set of subjections that we have on the continuum. We even insulted the Homeland War at some point. We've extradited the general as much as the tribune. We sent the documents to the Hague tribunal, instead of 17, 17, without the qualifications being removed with it, about secrecy. We sent it to the tow truck. Instead of 17 papers, it was sent to The Hague, documents, we don't know how much. So the president of the Republic of Croatia then Stipe Mesic opened an archive of Homeland War BBC journalists, I don't know, I can't remember who, opened it. So imagine who you trust? Advisers from Stipe Mesic who now want to tap phones, i.e. to track cell phones under the cover of the crown crisis. Of course it is necessary to respect the measures and now that Stipe Mesic's me, the main man is giving mobile tracking measures to all the citizens of the Republic, it's dictatorship, I don't believe in it. I don't believe it because the U.S. administration, the American president, was going to open up military records and tell the press, please, so is that imaginary in us? It's unimaginable. It's unimaginable. He didn't imagine in... that will tell their president of parliament, parliament, to arrest, locate, arrest, transfer, process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's Vladimir Shakespeare... said, and Vladimir Seks is the chief tailor of this government and any international agreement, any which is essentially under Vladimir Seks's pass, which he said about Croatian generals and from Gotovina and all generals, locate, arrest, transfer, process, it was the main policy of Vladimir Seks, who led this government, who composed this government, who is the tailor of all the chips and everyone sitting here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that. And now we can't discuss the agreement. Croatia must take care of itself, its interests and at least of American and Russian. But with their own interests, sovereign interests and the EU, you can see what our fellow Italians are sending in this crisis now that they have with the pandemic in the highest proportion. The concern of other EU members is for the Italians. As they care about us, these are stakeholders who view us exclusively as their prey. It's like a market, so they destroyed our agriculture, our economy, all our potentials. Let's look at each other, we need to look at each other, so we need to look at each other and rely on our pecs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195749	Thank you. For the final word also, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, on their behalf, will be reported by MP Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195750	My colleagues and colleagues, I was just talking about the purchase of fighter planes in which we passed infamously. Now, while I was sitting down, I followed the statement by Minister Krsticevic, who said, "We will not get any further planes, but we will get them when the economic crisis is over." Since the intensity of the crisis is announced, it seems to me that it could take me a while, there could be intensity, which, we all struggle to be as small as possible. And then we can really say that our faithful allies, the United States, can now show all their breadth. The width of how to lift the visa regime, and also the width around the donation of which the aircraft, so that we can protect our airspace. All these stories we've heard so far that our fleet can no longer protect the airspace, that on, the resources that are on the exhale. Now we are coming into a situation that seems to me in a year, two, three, it seems that Serbia will protect us with moments our space, is it going to be the only squadron that is operational and can stand up to any external enemy, and we are going to fly in the cans of moments 21, which are highlighted by resources. I, and this way, call on exactly the forces that are the most economically powerful, the military strongest to now recognize their true allies, to be helpful to them, to solve all that they have cooked up with their political games, because the Republic of Croatia did not deserve to be part of any political game, let alone when it comes to the strategic position that everyone is often invited to. LNG terminal, gas supply, combat aircraft issues, visa regimes, are all issues which are now the current government with our allies, the US and others who are in NATO can solve and be painless for Croatian people not to be hundreds of millions of euros or dollars that we should have paid if we were once played. Who? The United States, Israel or anyone else, I think is the least important issue, and the answers to this should be given by the current government who has led the whole process and who has failed to complete it, and it seems to me now that it has ended as far as this mandate is concerned and in future time it will be difficult. Thus, the real allies and former U.S. after II are now identified. World War II was a real support to its allies, now they need to show their size and breadth and solve the problems that they have caused well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195751	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195752	Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States which constitutes an instrument provided for in Article 3(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Agreement on extradition between the EU and the United States signed on 25 June 2003 on the application of the extradition contract signed on 25 October 1901, second reading, P.Z. Number 883. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that 130 votes for the law adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195753	I therefore open the following item of the agenda: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and recognising foreign professional qualifications, second reading, P.Z. No. 822. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Please, Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195754	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice-President HS, Your Honors and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. So, as the Vice-President said, we have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. I will just remind myself that the Law on regulated professions was adopted in HS at a session held on 10 July 2015 and published in the National Journal 82/15. The law has been adopted in order to comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council since 20 November 2013 and amending the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. The Law amending and supplementing this law was passed, as you remember last summer, so on 12 July 2019, published in the National Journal 70/19, and amendments and additions to that law were adopted because of full compliance with the Professional Qualifications Recognition Directive. I'm just going to remind you once again what regulated professions really are. Therefore, the concept of regulated professions itself implies that the conditions for working in a profession are prescribed by a certain law, and the carrying out of this regulated profession implies that a person has certain professional qualifications acquired after education, is it a licence, is it a professional exam and the like. Therefore, professional qualification is not an educational qualification and it actually comes after an educational qualification. When we set this example, let us say, we can compare this to those who have completed a law study and who cannot act as lawyers immediately, but must first obtain a certain working experience, pass a judicial exam, and in that sense the lawyer is a regulated profession, while the lawyer is an educational qualification. A list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and contains 182 professions. Compared to the first reading in this final bill, only two elements are changed, everything else is the same. It is therefore that the final proposal of the law deletes the obligation of candidates to pay an administrative fee in accordance with a specific regulation. This administrative fee is 50,00 kn, so we deleted it. In addition, we further specify the concept of “professional training and training, ” and it now reads“ professional training and training in order to carry out a regulated profession. ” These are the two elements that have been amended in the final proposal of the law. And when we look at the comprehensive and first and second reading, it is necessary to remind ourselves that this final draft law in the Croatian legislation is implemented by Directive 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council and since 28 June 2018, and this is a test of proportionality before the adoption of new rules that regulate professions. The deadline for compliance with this Directive is 30 July 2020. The Directive itself requires Member States to carry out an ex ante assessment of proportionality in order to prevent the introduction of unjustified restrictive conditions for work in the profession. In order to develop the single EU market in the field of services, it is necessary to remove all conditions that restrict access to the regulated profession or its implementation, which are not justified by the protection of public interest and which are not suitable for achieving the desired objective. According to this final proposal, the competent authorities, which are ministries or chambers, are obliged to establish new or amendments to existing conditions restricting access to or enforcement of the regulated profession, as I have already said, to assess proportionality. This assessment must be carried out objectively and independently for any condition restricting access to or enforcement of the regulated profession, and a statement shall be drawn up accordingly. They are responsible, as I said, for the ministries or competent chambers, and the Ministry of Labour and Pension System in this respect is the only and only coordinating body. This Final Proposal prohibits any restriction on access to a regulated profession which rests on discrimination on grounds of nationality and residence, and restrictions on access to the exercise of regulated professions can only be justified by the protection of public interest. It is also very important to mention that the final proposal also provides for an exception by which, when assessing the proportionality of the conditions for access to the health profession, it must take into account the provision of a very high level of protection of human health and that is what is imperative. Finally, I must mention that there is no need to provide any additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195755	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Then I'm opening a debate with that. The club of the representatives of the independent lists reported for participation in the debate. On their behalf, you should speak to Representative Bulj who's not here. Afterwards, the HDZ Representatives' Club appeared. In their name will be the representative Mladen Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195756	Honorable Vice President, Honored Secretary of State, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU opened the European labour market, which unfortunately has been slightly temporarily closed by the virus, but has also opened up access to our labour market for European citizens. One of the important elements of the integration of foreign citizens in a particular country is the possibility of work and employment. In doing so, it is important to ensure that they can be employed in accordance with their qualifications, their working experience, their interests, under the same conditions as the citizens of the host country. Recognition of foreign professional qualifications is a key link in the process of integration into the world of work on a regulated market. In order to implement Directive 2005 of the European Community on the recognition of professional qualifications in Croatian legislation, this law has been passed before us. The concept of a regulated profession, as the State Secretary said, implies that the conditions for working in a profession are prescribed by a certain law, while carrying out a regulated profession implies that a person has professional qualifications acquired after education such as work experience, licences, passing professional examinations and some other documents. The law that is before us, now in the final version, was passed in HS 2015. in order to comply with Directive 2013 of the European Parliament on the recognition of professional qualifications and the EU Regulation of 2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications was adopted in July 2019. Amendments and additions have been made to fully comply with the Directive since the evaluation of the transposition of the Directive into national legislation implemented by the European Commission has expressed certain concerns about compliance. The law regulates the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the accession and exercise of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of business creation, as well as the conditions for the free provision of services on the basis of foreign professional qualifications, minimum training conditions in the Republic of Croatia for the accession and performance of 7 professions recognised in the automatic recognition system and the general procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. This Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications is transposed into the Croatian legislation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council before the adoption of new rules governing professions and the deadline for compliance with the Directive is 30 July 2020. The Directive lays down the obligation for Member States to carry out an ex ante assessment of proportionality in order to prevent the introduction of unjustified restrictive conditions for work in the profession. The final draft law will therefore ensure the implementation of the principle of proportionality in the regulation of a particular profession by a special regulation. According to the principle of proportionality in each individual case, the body responsible for the regulation of a particular profession is obliged to assess whether it is appropriate to limit access to the profession to the objective to be achieved. The previous assessment of professionalism will have an impact on easier access to the labour market in terms of service provision and mobility of experts. Finally, the proposal for a law will prescribe the obligation for competent authorities to ensure that when establishing new or changing existing conditions restricting access... the evaluation professions are the same and appropriate for achieving the desired objective through the proportionality test. The proportionality test shall be carried out on the basis of general and additional criteria and shall ensure a balance between the protection of objectives of public interest and the quality of services, while improving access to regulated professions. The aim of the final bill is to increase the mobility of experts and ensure freedom to provide services while restrictions on access... can justify the objectives of public interest. In this respect, health professions have been granted special status because ensuring a high level of human health protection must be taken into account when assessing the proportionality of the conditions for health professions. Given all this presented club HDZ will support this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195757	The SDP advocates' club also reported for participation in the debate and on their behalf will speak MP Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195758	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support this legislative proposal, we supported it and in the first reading, there have been no changes that are controversial between the two readings, so we believe that this legislative proposal should be supported. We heard the introduction, and from colleagues before me almost all the key information, so I won't go wide. In fact, I will stress three facts, the first is that this law seeks to prevent the introduction of unwarranted restrictive conditions for work in the profession, that the previous assessment of proportionality affects easier access to the labour market in terms of providing services and mobility of professionals and thirdly that, by increasing the mobility of professionals, we provide freedom to provide services, and the restriction of access to regulated professions can only be justified in case of the need to protect human health as one of the main priorities is the particularly prominent health profession. In addition, they may say, and perhaps later, the applicant may point out to us the remarks that have come from the Chamber of Dental Medicine, so they require the inclusion of the chamber stronger in the test of proportionality and the determination of additional criteria especially when it comes to health professions. They also problem the suspension of this fee because it is ultimately a certain cost that someone will need to bear in order to implement all that is provided for in this law. Therefore, this law is good, there is no reason not to support it, but today I will repeat what I said in the debate and in the first reading, although even in the statement of the ministry that it is not a topic, I must say that this law speaks of the need to limit and reduce all obstacles to access to the labour market, and we in Croatia are discriminating an entire group of young people, these are masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics, which are all covered by regulated professions, which are in accordance with Directive 2005/36. So the finality in Croatia we have health lab technicians, we have first-graders of medical-laboratory diagnostics, we have masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics. Thus, throughout Europe, it is recognised interest that our students can go to work in Europe after completing that study, and they cannot join us in training and conducting a professional exam, which then becomes a regulated profession. Therefore, I also appeal to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Education, as soon as possible, to address this problem. We are witnessing today that even in this crisis, the health system rests on people. It is therefore absolutely absurd and discriminatory to prevent young people who have completed education on the burden of the state, with great investment and disowning their parents themselves, from working in Croatia for interests they have acquired adequate knowledge of. Therefore, with the support of this law, I insist once again on dealing with the emergency problem of the medical laboratory diagnostics in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195759	The club of representatives of HSU-SNAGA-Independent Representatives and New Politics also asked for participation in this debate and will speak for them by representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195760	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So for our club HSU, independent representatives, SNAGA and New Politics, it is not at all questionable whether we will support this law, of course we will support it, even though we have a taste of bitterness. Why? Because we're still making it, and yesterday, I was talking about it, by the principle of app, if it passes, because now we're fixing the law that we passed in 2018, so not some government, not let me know from when, but we're fixing our laws from this mandate. I don't expect anyone to tell me that we couldn't have seen it before this law was passed. Of course I'm saying we have the right to criticise and make our remarks on all the laws, which doesn't mean we'll be against these changes because I think they're useful. So, in any case, the assessment of the proportionality of ex-ante is fine because it avoids unjustified restrictions on working conditions in the profession. We are talking and fighting for less red tape, it is contained in less bureaucratic obstacles, it is contained in this proposal to amend and supplement the law, facilitating the work of professional professions is also applicable in this bill, which in some ways ensures the mobility of experts, which is very good for our society that we can work on equal terms, as our experts outside, so experts from abroad do. Of course, always, especially today in these conditions in which we live and are working is a special approach to the health profession because it is about public health interests and too often this public health interest is being neglected and we have witnessed the last 30 years of falling into work various privatisations and only now do we see how good the system of public health, public health, a system which rests on the foundations still laid by Andrija Stampar and which is very, very resilient in all changes, modern changes in health systems. Therefore, the absolute interest of public health must have a special approach and here we have some recognition that this law spoke, recognition, the doctor has professional professions, the doctor has dental medicine, Italy, Spain, Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania. But another remark. This law has a title on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. In fact, we apply EU directives and what is prescribed by this law is for EU countries. However, we have professional qualifications that come to Croatia to work with professional qualifications from our neighbouring countries and have serious problems and have processes that take a long time to recognise professional qualifications from which one part of these qualifications is acquired and practiced, therefore, by everyday work and skills acquisition. And we have, here it says that, that always recognizes professional qualifications professional body. You know, we've got other nurses' chambers confessing to whether anyone has terms or no conditions. So we have a variety of approaches in recognising different levels of professional qualifications. That's not good. This is not good because we need experts from all profiles, and we must not look at whether they are from alone, they must have unique criteria according to professional qualifications from the EU, but also by neighbouring countries, provided we maintain the same quality of their work, or the functioning of their activities. So, of course, this is not carved into stone, of course, that this law will experience a lot of changes over time, and I point to only one problem, because as a representative, people have been speaking to me for an awful long time, for dentists, it takes their different exams, that it is necessary to wait for order years for the dia to approach the exams, etc., and some other qualifications, nurses and other activities. Therefore, from this place, it is our duty to talk about things that don't work very well, which take too long, and people are our biggest resource and it is a shame that because of certain restrictions or bureaucratic obstacles, people can't do quality, safe and free of their jobs, in the activities, or in the titles they have dedicated themselves to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195761	The representative, i.e. the Club of HNS Representatives, also reported for participation in the debate. In their name should be spoken representative Tomislav Sauch, who has no right to speak. Afterwards, the GLAS Representatives Club asked for participation in the debate, on their behalf will speak MP Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. Between the first reading of this law and the second reading, i.e. today, the whole world has turned upside down, so, and of course, Europe may, in particular, be the epicenter of Coronavirus and I would say that this law and its provisions are getting a much greater meaning and perhaps even Croatia could run, given that we are currently presided over the EU, could also start some amendments to this directive at European level, because, let's say that one of the most significant aids Italy has received at this time of crisis is almost the first plane of Albanian doctors who have gone to help their Italian colleagues, which means that at the time of the pandemic, at the time of this type of crisis, and we can of course imagine that this other crisis, for example, the earthquake is the same kind of crisis where they might need engineers, or one other regulated profession that may be missing in such conditions, and that is likely, in the near future, when this type of crisis ends, this directive, i.e.e. at the level of Europe, to be complemented by one way, by all of Europe, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means of making them all the strict criteria, by means of making them. So, considering these dramatic changes that we witnessed and that we couldn't even imagine. Life has shown that in this area requires a different regulation, a broader one, not giving up on criteria, but more inclusive than this one is here. And an example of Albanian doctors, I think, speaks very well of it. Otherwise, as far as this law and harmonisation are concerned, I also said in my first reading that it was actually a repair or repair of something that we brought in in the middle of last year. I know the secretary of state got angry, so she told me last time that it was an old law that we're fixing, but it wasn't, we were obviously fixing the old one, but then we fixed it in July 2019 and these remarks, the last one was at 11. In the month 2019, the Member State So, the comments refer to, this version, it's not a big deal, it's just saying that we should stick to it precisely and perhaps even in our legislation more precisely define and standardise certain terms so that we can more effectively and faster introduce some of the standards and directives that we have already adopted, so at EU level. Two official warnings or warnings are the last one, as I said in the 11th 2019. One refers to the definition of what professional training and improvement means, and the other refers to the definition of what it means for responsible persons in management and management positions. Otherwise, the law introduces and restricts or reduces the conditions under which the competent authority may request additional documents only if there are indeed regional differences. Secondly, the obligation of the competent authorities to recognise evidence of professional qualification for dental medicine doctors from that set of countries already mentioned, which have started studying before this Directive was adopted and further simplifying evidence in the very process of proving their own qualification. The Voice Club will, of course, support this because, as I said, it's just a correction to what we've already brought. However, I think that we can expect, and it might not be bad for the Republic of Croatia to initiate it itself, that this directive, given the experience we have with the pandemic, is changed or extended at European level of course first, so if it happens at the level of Europe withdrawn by this experience then, of course, it is ratified in certain countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195763	Thank you. For participation, MP Bulj, who is not here, appeared in an individual debate, means he is losing his right to speak. Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, also called for an individual debate, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195764	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have already heard from previous discussions that the health profession is in special status here, and this is very important and now, today more than ever, we are witnessing how important it is to have quality personnel, not only in the health system but also in the education system and in every other system, and this is more striking and clearer today than ever before and it is important that we are actually aware that the Republic of Croatia is in this sense taking the lead in the EU, our personnel are highly qualified, always appreciated, and it is important to enable them then and mobility in this context. We heard from the secretary of state. Buric said that the aim of the final bill is to increase the mobility of experts, but it is also very important to ensure the quality of the provision and freedom of service, and in this sense the health profession or health profession really deserves a special status because ensuring a high level of quality of the health system was considered a priority and was therefore considered a need and considered a public quality and it was regulated by this directive, and today, unfortunately, in these circumstances, there is an expression. So these professions are automatically recognised, we've already heard about the list of these professions, it's about doctors, it's about dentists, it's about nurses and technicians, it's about pharmaceutical technicians, pharmacists, so it's about that profession, but it's also about veterinarians, and I don't list any other professions. In EU member states, so also in the Republic of Croatia, but in all others, these professions are automatically recognised. The signing of regulated professions is 182 professions and now, with this proposal for a law that is final in the second reading, they fully harmonize with the European profession to allow the development of a single European market, not only a digital one that has always been a priority but also a global single market in terms of staff policies and their mobility. Once again, the fact that health professions are in special status should be highlighted. Today, this has certainly come to an end. In the first reading, this law was adopted unanimously with 120 votes, I see no reason why in the next week when this law is re-voting in the second reading and the final proposal is not supported unanimously and this law more than some other one raises the question of how important it is to have qualified personnel, regulated professions and how important it is to enable their mobility and freedom to provide services in all EU member states, and above all in the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195765	Representative Jovanovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195766	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, I answered the line just inciting what you were saying about health activity, perhaps because of the public who is following, and where there is often one misunderstanding. Therefore, all who have completed some health directions in the EU are automatically recognised in the Republic of Croatia. But problems arise when you most often come from the area of the former Yugoslavia, where you need to know that there are 3 levels. So, higher school diplomas and higher education to continue the education of the Republic of Croatia are worth the colleges themselves. The Agency for Science and Higher Education is worthy of employment, and professional qualifications and professional exams are valued by competent chambers and ministries, and this is necessary to know about coming into the field of health activities of all who finish universities and schools in the areas of the former Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195767	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195768	Thank you very much for the replica, esteemed colleague Jovanovic. I spoke with my colleague Buric, the secretary of state, just before the debate, and I think she will be referring to this issue in the final presentation that you had during the first debate on this bill. As far as I know, the work of three ministries, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Labour and the pension system and the Ministry of Economy should be coordinated, and in my opinion this would be the only imbalance in the health system. If we can work this out in due course, I think we've solved that problem. And as far as I've heard from the secretary of state, it's just being considered how this imbalance that exists, if I'm not mistaken, will be solved since 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195769	Representative Goran Aleksic reported for individual participation in the debate, since he is not there, he is losing his right to speak. Agent Ivan Pernar also applied for participation in an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195770	Dear ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the recognition of foreign qualifications. However, I believe that at a time when there is no free movement of people, it means that when you can't actually move freely, even within the EU or even go one step further, or within your own country, when we are suspended from actually human rights. I think it's too much to discuss on this subject, but the more we have hundreds of thousands of blocked citizens still living in agony, the more the state doesn't help them. I call on the state to suspend its duties immediately and put this guy's law on the agenda, but unfortunately from Prime Minister Plenkovic we will hardly welcome it, even though he said he would pass the new Executive Act, it has been the story of the last 3 years. Another thing I would like to note, which I find very important, is that these measures to save jobs will unfortunately not help those who are already out of work. So everyone who expected to get a job, so seasons and unemployed actually stayed short sleeves. I call on the state to immediately enable some sort of guaranteed minimum income to enable these people to survive during this severe crisis. Such laws should also be on the agenda today. And those laws aren't on the agenda today. We are today discussing the recognition of foreign qualifications as if we have an acute situation for foreign experts to come to us in the Republic of Croatia who want to work, and now as a game of the case, they are not recognised as diplomas. However, that is not the case, I say, the traffic of people has been completely suspended, even within the state, contrary to the Constitution, the state of emergency has not been declared, for which the government should have a two-thirds majority that it did not have and has not shown for every measure like this to defend people from moving outside the place of residence should also have a two-thirds majority that I have never seen here that supported such a proposal. So all the government in the country of the day is in the hands of one man, Mr. Berosch, who can do what he wants. We actually have suspended democracy, and the debate that was yesterday about delaying local elections because of this pandemic, we can find ourselves in a situation where parliamentary elections are delayed, simply they say the pandemic is still going on and Plenkovic is simply stalling parliamentary elections until the last moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195771	Thank you. This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 226. St. 2. Rules of Procedure, I will propose an addition to the agenda of the session with 26 new points. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the General Tax Code with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 895. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Accounting Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 896. 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 887. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Agriculture Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 898. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 899. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the ID card with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 900. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Road Safety Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 901. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations in Walking, because unfortunately, much is being solved in walking, to start solving. What's important here, we'll have tomorrow, here's the vice president who proposed these government measures that came, which I asked Vice President Reiner to put on the agenda the opposition proposals. The MOST will today, yesterday we presented, mean 7 laws concerning our economy and I think it would be fine and according to the opposition that these laws come on the agenda, that they can be discussed. I know that colleagues from the SDP have also sent this one set of laws and simply this crisis requires an adequate response from the Croatian Parliament. The HS must discuss problems in the economy of the coronary virus epidemic, problems in the health system, and there are, problems in our education, problems that our farmers have had, our OPGs, we have seen that this one throughout this time, there our colleagues have warned about it, the markets have been closed, shopping centres have been open again, have actually profited in this crisis in Croatia, and even some food chains, here, McDonald's has been working all this time, this Drive in, and our restaurants have had big problems, have been closed, our OPGs have not been able to place their products and these are the things that we need to talk about here in HS. But we need such precise ones, not only can we abuse the Rules of Procedure, or we can warn ourselves of a problem through such breaks. I see that all the colleagues who are here want to talk about these problems, we are not the only ones who offer solutions, and here, please and the Presidency of the Parliament, primarily the president who decides most about it, to make it possible for MPs. We want to be available to our people at the time of this crisis and to warn about our problems and to warn about our problems, and here, after me, the general will certainly bring out a lot of things about the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195773	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, second reading, P.Z. number 822. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that most votes have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Score 122 for and 8 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u181373	Representative Robert Jankovics will also speak his free stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u181374	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues. The topic I want to talk about is a regional topic about Baranja where I come from. Before I enter the details, and I use this opportunity to congratulate and thank all the tireless health workers, police, trade, pharmacy, all those who work on the recovery damage from the earthquakes here in Zagreb and in Krapina-Zagorje County, I congratulate them and thank them on behalf of all of us, do excellent work, continue, I hope that we will be able to repay you. As for the topic I want to talk about today despite the impression and excellent work that the state administration at the head of the headquarters is doing in this incredibly difficult time, I must express my indignation to a state institution that does not understand all the complexity of today's situation, and we are talking about the Croatian Post Office. In the wake of this crisis in Baranja, where I come from, 6 out of 16 post offices have been closed since Monday 30.3. So we've forced half of Baranja, where we don't have a single one infected with movement. So, we forced people who, every month, consciously pay their bills in these post offices who might be raising cash or carrying out transfers that could have been made in their places so far, force them or force them by foolishly stupid decision of the Croatian Post Office to move and go elsewhere. So, by closing the office in, post office in Lug, Dragon, Karanc, Duboshevica, Baranja Petrova Sela and Princeeva, we forced almost half of the population of Baranja to violate the Law on the Prohibition of Movement. So, the impression is that one hand doesn't know what the other is doing. We created imminently, so with Monday's ranks in the remaining postal offices of over 100 meters esteemed management of Croatian Post Offices. So what is crucial to us, therefore, is that we try a test of proportionality because Croatian mail in their explanation says that the reason that part of the employees of these postal offices could not have come to work without organised transportation, I can esteemed Croatian mail management to lie is because all employees of Croatian post offices in these 6 post offices come to their jobs by personal vehicles and it was not them, nor would they have a problem to come to their jobs today. So, if they're having trouble getting to work, then how are we going to explain half a few thousand people who are now forced to go to other places without public transportation to do those services that they could have done in their places so far? I remind the esteemed leadership of the Croatian Post Office, that no store, no pharmacy has closed either in the area of Baranja or anywhere, they are all consciously doing their job as at the beginning and thanking each other during these incredibly difficult times. I don't remember any police officers going on sick leave or on an annual basis, all doing their job, esteemed colleagues from the Croatian Post Office calling you in the interest of preventing the infection, in the interest of keeping the status of zero infected in Baranja to immediately open six post offices that you have closed with an unreasonable, stupid decision. Give us a chance for the Baranjas to stay home.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195581	Here, it's 9.30, good morning to you, this esteemed colleague, unfortunately there's no colleague, but oh, and she hid, she hid behind me, and I'd like to give you one notice first. So, we, today, will bring the government, as you know, and as announced, a package of measures, economic measures related to this infection and an epidemic of the crown aimed at facilitating the economy and workers, etc. And this team, therefore, with the set of laws tomorrow morning, we would complete the agenda and immediately conduct the debate, and then early next week we would organise a vote on it, as the Presidency spoke about, not here, because here it is inconclusive because of the size of the hall, but in one other place, which, of course, you will be informed of in time. Here's just as much as one notice that you know about tomorrow to change this agenda a little bit. Today we have three points on the agenda, and I would suggest at first if you agree that the first two points are really connected, if you agree to unite them in one point? Do you have anything against it? You don't. Okay, thank you very much. Then I think it's accepted. So now we're going to go together to those two points. Therefore, it is: - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States, which constitutes an instrument envisaged. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. 3rd century. Agreement on mutual legal assistance between the EU and the United States signed in Washington on 25 June 2003, second reading, P.Z. No. 882, and - the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States which constitutes an instrument provided for in Article 88(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3. ct. 2. Agreement on extradition between the EU and the United States signed on 25 June 2003. As regards the application of the extradition treaty signed on 25 October 1901, second reading, P.Z. No. 883. The proposer of both acts is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 207a. The Rules of Procedure of This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that laws certifying international contracts under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are, as a rule, adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. For both points, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal for both laws? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195582	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, the honourable MPs and MPs. We have two very important laws, two laws of international legal importance. It is the laws which, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, are in force. 141. In order to become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, HS should ratify them. As Mr Vice-President has said, it is two contracts, the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the mutual extradition of citizens, as well as the Treaty on Mutual Legal Assistance between the Republic of Croatia and the United States. Since the Republic of Croatia is a full member of the EU, the roof agreement between the Member States of the Union and the United States dates back to 2003, the obligations of the Republic of Croatia as full members are the acceptance of Union law, the common law, as signed by the Union roof agreement with the United States, and there is also an obligation for the Republic of Croatia to apply the roof contract in law of the Republic of Croatia. It should be noted in particular that so far, rules on mutual legal assistance on extradition between the US government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia date back to 1901. So these are international legal instruments, especially in criminal matters that are obsolete, inapplicable, more such offences as are mentioned in those 1901 agreements. They do not exist, so it was necessary to implement this new agreement. About these two laws, these two important international contracts were negotiated in the 11th year, so it didn't come overnight, full of 11. The various governments and various justice ministers ended the negotiations in November 2019. here in the Republic of Croatia, and these two contracts are signed by Mr. Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic in December 2019. in Washington on the side of the Republic of Croatia as a government attorney, and on the side of the United States, the U.S. Attorney General. Given our constitutional obligations and the importance of the matter ahead, we propose to the Croatian Parliament that the contracts in question be ratified and become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195583	Does he want to go before...? Yeah. We've got more replicas, let's go to them first, the first respected representative of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195584	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I hope going to the scene doesn't mean you won't answer the line. Noting the importance of these two agreements, among other things, and because of the fact that it is actually a procedure that Croatia is still conducting under the agreement that the United States has brought together with the Government of the Kingdom of Serbia, what is far more important for us both here and for you in the ministry and for Croatian citizens is the question of how you will be asked according to the state of justice. We have warned several times and also here about the problem of the course of court deadlines, the minister announced last Friday that the law is in preparation, however, at today's session of the rule of law that would regulate the problem of the court deadlines in Croatia does not exist. Please answer me, can we expect him when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195585	Thank you very much. It's not directly related to the subject, but here's the secretary of state to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195586	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Grbin. Although this is not a topic as Justice Minister Mr. Bosnjakovic announced last Friday, it is a set of laws from the judicial portfolio that are not in the cabinet session today, but will be held by the end of this session. We are working on deadlines, we are aware that in this situation affected by both the earthquake and the crisis, the courts do not function, but what I can say responsibly in front of the Justice Department we leave nothing to the case. You know it's complex laws, and I believe that it will come before you soon. So, it is working on it and it is working especially on deadlines and will be debated by representatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195587	Thank you very much. You can stay here. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195588	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State one short question, we know that the United States does not have the practice of handing over its citizens, I am interested in this agreement, and this is the very conclusion of the bill and the confirmation of this international treaty, how much can these things change and how much will it change in practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195589	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195590	This is about very specific cases of criminal co-operation, organised crime, cybercrime, something that is specific. So, so far it's even though it's a '901 deal. Years of extradition of some 40 cases when it comes to these specific criminal acts. If you have read the agreement, we have protected Croatian citizens, so there is no way that everyone who is requested is being extradited, there are special protocols, special procedures. What we had to define over the course of the years, there was already some cooperation, but it wasn't covered by the laws. So we can't say that this agreement put Croatian citizens in a smaller position than American citizens, which is why we've been talking for 11 years, there's no direct extradition. This is a specific matter, and if you have read the articles of the contract, it is about international cooperation when it comes to organised crime and serious crime, and in order to protect both our citizens and their respect for international law, it is necessary first to sign these contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195591	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195592	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm taking the opportunity to ask you a question. Why aren't the courts working? If they can make factories, if they can build buildings, why can't the courts work? So today we have an unusual situation, never in history, the recent history of the Croatian state and at the time of the Homeland War and some other crisis times has happened that the courts do not work, it is simply unacceptable. So there's a way, if there's a way for us to get together here and sit in a smaller volume, that there's less of us, I'm sure there's a way for the courts to work. The second thing, electronic application, as far as lawyers and judges are concerned, is not working. I've heard from more lawyers that the system simply failed. So, two questions. One question is, why don't the courts work? We should and we could work. So we're going to have even more delays in solving a variety of cases. And secondly, why isn't he doing an electronic application to the courts?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195593	Thank you. Again a question that is not directly on the subject, but the Secretary of State is ready to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195594	Thank you very much, Vice President. This direct question concerns the current situation. I can't say that the courts are fully operational, but the courts are working, the judges are solving the cases they took home. In view of the earthquake and the situation of COVID 19, there is no possibility that the courts are working on a full scale, so what we're sure about is that we've been all along preparing e-communication to digitize the system. There are problems of a technical nature, but they are regularly eliminated, so the system works. The Ministry of Justice has made recommendations to all courts, so communication exists, and now we have talks, agreements with the public record chamber of the Republic of Croatia, as well as when it comes to the performances that have stalled in this case and will stand in view of the situation with all our citizens, citizens who are in trouble. And as far as this technical issue is concerned, this may be about two, three cases you've heard, but the Department of Justice, so our walking technicians, they're removing problems. We are aware that, for example, the Zagreb County Court for damage cannot work fully because it is insecure for citizens and parties who would come to court, but in due course it will be removed all. There's gonna be a move.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195595	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed member of the Scyboli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195596	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This agreement concerns cooperation between Croatia and America in the context of suspicious financial transactions in the context of money laundering, I am interested in whether this agreement also relates to what is now coming here to the Croatian Parliament with what has recently appeared in public, which means that private banks in Croatia have been dealing with these dubious financial transactions. So, I'm interested in answering if you have any knowledge of this, do you as the Ministry of Justice have any information and when will the Croatian Parliament report from the CNB that the banks in the Republic of Croatia were dealing with suspicious financial transactions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195597	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195598	Your Honor, this agreement has nothing to do with the current events you listed. You've been waiting 11 years for this signature. In November 2019, we defined 3-4 key points, a key problem that has not led to the conclusion of this agreement. In December 2019, the minister of justice visited the United States, signed an agreement, and now, under the Constitution, the obligation of the Croatian Parliament has been ratified in accordance with Article 141. The Constitution. The timing may seem like that to you, but it has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195599	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195600	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, the importance of this point, this contract between the United States and Croatia on extradition and legal aid should be discussed in my opinion, but I think it's time for you as a representative of the judiciary to ask what is wrong with the moratorium whether there are any measures in the matter of conduct and on the matter of loan to the moratorium, we don't see that it's government measures, so do you have any information that it will be. And of course I asked here on Thursday and the Minister of Justice, your superior, which is why they strike down people in the Split prison of Bilica, because it was news that because they're not protected from the crown, there are infected by the crown. So can you tell what's going on and if there's a prison in Split in Bilica, was there a crown case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195601	Thank you very much. That really has nothing to do with the point, but the secretary of state will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195602	Thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195603	/Intruder: Because it's my job, I'm giving you a warning./
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195604	... of pious procedures, distinguished MPs, we have made certain recommendations and in agreement with the Croatian Public Bookmark Chamber, so all the executive procedures in that specific sense towards the perpetrators will stop, but due to deadlines, the public notebooks will, as so far, prepare a solution that will not be justified, when the situation calms down and this threat will then go to the perpetrators, and only then will the deadlines for the perpetrators be set in order to give the complaint and everything else. As for the loan, you heard it from the banks, the banks gave the moratorium for 3 months with certain reasons and conditions, and all the rest you asked, I think it belongs to some kind of political assessment and your personal and would not want to comment on it. I'm only sure that we have the justice system under control, that as far as the safety of Croatian prisons and 3,300 prisoners have done everything possible to protect them. In Split, there was panic over a particular case that was not in contact with the prison, but a family contact of the wife with an employee of the Justice Department. There's no threat to prisoners in any prison for now. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195605	Thank you. We can still finish our colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195606	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Salapic, today we are witnessing a debate on an extremely important document on which we can say that we have been waiting for more than 118 years and the importance of this document is such that perhaps the US Ambassador to Croatia would be sitting here at the gallery that we are in our assembly, however we are not. It should be said that there is absolutely nothing controversial in this document and that Croatian citizens are in no way in a more unfavourable position and that all rights guaranteed by the Constitution are incorporated into this document. This document is extremely important because, according to an existing document that actually regulates this kind of judicial issue, contemporary crimes, such as cybercrime, terrorism, arms trafficking, drugs, people, were not covered. It will now be possible to establish joint teams and in any case facilitate cooperation in the interests of both countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195607	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195608	Thank you very much, Vice President. I didn't at first, given the situation, I wanted to talk about it as briefly as possible, but we had a high delegation from the U.S. Department of Justice in Sibenik with special respect to our delegation to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have literally translated every article of these agreements into Croatian and commented on all those potentially controversial criminal and legal provisions in accordance with our Constitution and the positive law given the diversity of the American system. So, we've been through it one more day. So this important agreement is given the important political, economic relations between the Republic of Croatia and the United States. Unfortunately, the situation in which we come to cast a shadow in view of the health threat and the problems in the judiciary cannot be fully discussed about the importance of this international legal document because we have a crisis in which we have found ourselves, we protect the system of justice as a whole, when this is all over these political reasons we will definitely see and in particular feel for the future that I hope will be positive for our two countries, two cooperations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195609	Thank you very much. It makes me think that on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative of the Grmoya is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195610	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break because it's obvious he doesn't recognize the moment at all. The MPs want to warn about certain problems related to the coronary epidemic of the virus and as regards the economy and as regards our blocked and as far as the teaching line is concerned, which does not work, they send me parents' messages that they simply cannot, with some small instructions they receive all day, actually work with their children. And it's not right for you to put on points that don't concern us and then still call the MPs if they connect something to what affects us all in society, our citizens, our workers, our craftsmen, our blocked, our parents and our children. So, please consult the President of the Assembly immediately, and he has promised us that the points concerning this crisis will have priority. Yesterday, as MOST, we sent 7 laws regarding resolving economic problems, coming out to meet us, we want to help the government of Croatian citizens. Thank you. I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195611	Thank you very much. Of course I approve of the break, according to our deal, I'll see you at 9.55. THE PURPOSE We're continuing to work because the break's up. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, so then I open the debate and the first one will be the club of HDZ MPs, and time will be shared by the respected representative Ante Bačić and the respected representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195613	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as the State Secretary pointed out to us in the introduction, and here we see through the replicas we are a little off the subject, but I hope that we will now return as long as we have to discuss the crisis itself and everything that is going on in the Republic of Croatia, I think it is important that we continue our normal lives and the functioning of the state and society. On this basis, these two proposals, the final draft laws concerning the validation of international contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the United States under an agreement already signed by the United States and the EU in 2003, are related to two very important legal issues, which are related to mutual legal assistance and related to itself, the extradition agreement itself. Mutual legal assistance is sometimes referred to as judicial aid, the very way in which evidence and data are collected between one country and another in particular for criminal proceedings. At this point unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia and the U.S. have old contracts that have run out and are no longer current. On the basis of this, the government decided last year to start negotiations on new agreements, so the minister of justice, together with the chief state attorney in America, signed in 2019 contracts concerning themselves, mutual legal aid itself and self-delivery itself. They are the cornerstone of the EU-US agreement as roof agreements that work on EU-RH liquids must be monitored, monitored and normally brought into line with its acquis under Article 141 of Regulation (EU) No 141. The Republic of Croatia will eventually become part of the foundation of the Croatian legal system. Normally, they are now the final proposals of the law because in practice international agreements come in accordance with both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution in the Assembly in the Republic of Croatia and they are discussed in one reading because they themselves are concluded between the two states and cannot be now. It is difficult to change now because they are already defined in certain proposals so that they are sent here to the Croatian Parliament only for ratification. to confirm them, which I repeat, we draw from the very foundation of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. We must note that these two very important topics and self-delivery, but also the legal institute of mutual legal assistance, so-called. and judicial aids are also important because in these new conditions and normal and at the level of the international market itself, but international and criminality we come to a system of new forms of criminal activity not to mention cyber-action and terrorism itself. These are simple conditions that stress countries that they need to further strengthen their cooperation and strengthen their own legal order with such international contracts to better cooperate and prevent such forms of new forms of crime. In the articles attached to both contracts, we have defined the very assets and the following starting with the extradition itself and the way the data is delivered and exchanged, what we have heard from the Secretary of State and the establishment of joint teams when we talk about mutual legal assistance and about banking and other fraud itself, the very secrecy of the data exchanged and all other forms of cooperation, so that in the end when we look at these two contracts, and the agreement that the US governments themselves signed with the EU, which is the basis of these international agreements, I believe that this will contribute to further cooperation between our two countries, but also normally on strengthening the legal order of the Republic of Croatia itself. So here we propose normally and ultimately that these two international contracts are. these two final bill proposals and adoptions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195614	Thank you, we will continue with representative Petrijevcanin Vukasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195615	I thank my esteemed colleagues, so it was high time for this document to be brought in. Croatia, as is known as the strategic partner throughout a series of strategic important issues with the United States, is aimed at modernising these issues in judicial matters that have not been resolved so far, sounds amazing, but has acted on a document that was in force since 1901. Or ratified in 1902. In addition to the fact that the document, over a hundred years old, 118 and 119, did not cover modern crimes involving cybercrime, drug trafficking, arms, people, corruptive crimes and all sorts of modern crime, the document was no longer in line with both the contemporary acquis and Croatia as members of the EU and with the Croatian rightful gains of independence. These contracts of exceptional importance have now regulated all important issues and should be said that Croatian citizens are fully protected from extradition and there is no sign of any controversy in this document. Therefore, the aim is to bring a person to justice, the aim is to further modernise, facilitate cooperation, improve, accelerate cooperation between the United States and Croatia in these important judicial issues. It should be said that as far as the criminal offences covered by this law are concerned, it is regulated in Article. 2. and the annex shall specify exactly which offences this document refers to. It should be said that these two documents that we are discussing together today are the result of years of excellent US and Croatian cooperation, primarily in the area of justice, as State Secretary Salapic said, have been co-operated by several governments. The American Embassy colleagues have been working on this document for more than 15 years and that some normal circumstances that I hope will return sooner or later would probably be an American ambassador here because this is really a document of exceptional importance for both states. Both contracts are designed to meet all modern challenges not only of the judiciary but of modern times involving all criminal acts. And it should also be said that these contracts are attached to a roof contract between EU member states and the US, which is signed, and then each country also bilaterally signs the contract. Our contract bilaterally with the United States, as state secretary Salapic mentioned, was signed on 10 December 2019 between the minister of justice and the chief state attorney of the United States, and after that, by ratifying these documents in the Croatian Parliament, they become valid after we have waited for them for more than 118 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195616	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195617	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. There's a document in front of us. Proposal for a law on an agreement between Croatia and the United States relating essentially to extradition and legal aid. We're both together in a debate. As I said at the outset in the replica whether right now it's time for us to discuss it, perhaps, and probably for me, as far as the judiciary is concerned, it's been a lot more important to discuss here and that we Parliamentarians have the opportunity to talk about it. But I will mention only briefly that as far as the extradition itself is concerned, Croatia will hand over everything to them, to any international courts, to any war crimes, anything, American citizens ultimately in all wars have not extradited or extradited their generals, so that we can talk about it. We see that, of course, it's an agreement between the EU, i.e. and above all, between the EU and the US, we see that now watching only Italy as the EU's relationship with the Italians in this crisis, we see that many important political actors are unhappy with the EU's behaviour, and we are now holding the EU's presidency on aid and solidarity in Italy. If you follow this, you will see that the Vice-President of the Lower House Parliament in Italy has even... there the EU flag has moved away and dumped the Italian flag because they feel forgotten by the EU, and Croatia now presides as far as we know the EU. So here the question arises, how much help is the honourable EU secretary of law to the Croatian judiciary at this point in time of monetary interest to me? Is there any kind of financial assistance? And what I'm asking here once again is that citizens are mostly wondering about a moratorium that would have to be, just now people are going to be in a difficult situation because of the non-guilty, but because of the root of the virus. And, of course, we need to talk here about whether or not we're going to be suspended and it's going to be in this period, say half a year, a year as much as we're predicting not only the health crisis, but the crisis and the economic and economic and the performance and, of course, the moratorium on loans. This is what we should be talking about and where the EU is helping Croatia and all its Member States to do this moratorium because as time moves away people will lose their jobs, people will have obligations, people will pay for all obligations of course, and pressures on the economy, everything will be in one problem of not functioning in the catering of the example. So I think it should be a key topic, to talk about these things because we're going to bring people in that they won't have bread. And as far as I hear banks are well liquid, that they have money, and in this way I think that this part of the deal could be arranged mainly on the subject of the performance and blocked our citizens, but we need to know that in Croatia we have a large number of people who are blocked and a large number of people from whom the family depends, in total, when more than 220,000 are added up, let them be summed up with family members that is a million people who are going to be means anyway and without the crisis are in trouble because of our poor legislation. For this reason, I would like once again for the secretary to say when the government will make these proposals here is expected by Croatian citizens. And in the end, I think that this pay phone to the parliamentary deputies is basically an opportunity and a tool to talk about things when certain representatives of the Croatian government come in, to talk about the problems that our citizens have, and it's sad and embarrassing if someone asks a question.../incomprehensible/... that this is why they give reminders in this difficult situation when we should all listen together, at least listen to each other, you have this gift that God gave to everyone, that we listen to and listen to each other, no matter what we think about each other when in a crisis then in a community we can, when the crisis is only common and by listening to each other we can come to certain solutions. So I would also invite all fellow parliamentary representatives no matter what someone in this assembly thinks that God is given and eternal, to talk about citizens' problems, so the people chose us, because silence is what they would like, and only they should speak their views and their opinions, those who have brought the state into this situation where we have never again imports, i.e.. where we are threatened is the food system, raw agricultural land, the legal system does not work, people do not believe in the legal system and of course it is our obligation to talk about these problems. Therefore, Your Honor, Secretary of State, please state what the moratorium on this matter means on this matter and on the moratorium on the crisis caused by the Coron of the Virus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195618	The next club of MPs will be the GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, so de facto it is about confirming two agreements, we confirm them on the basis of the fact that we are a member of the EU. These are two agreements between the EU and the United States, as is known and as you remember, for example, a free trade agreement between Canada and the EU. All such types of agreements are then ratified or confirmed and in national parliaments it is standard to say so. Two agreements, one on extradition between the EU and the United States, and then, consequently, between Croatia and the United States and the other is a mutual legal aid agreement. As there were speeches here, so far as extradition has been used by some type of follow-up agreement of 901 and 2nd respectively, it is not necessary to be lessen as the equivalent of such an agreement was the basis, for example. for the extradition of Notor Captain Dragan, it was used in the procedure and de facto one of the strong arguments that it was he who was extradited to the Republic of Croatia. This is, of course, much more modern and includes, as colleagues and colleagues have already said, a whole series of other crimes that were not simply on the agenda at the time, covering a different view of the judiciary, dramatic changes will not occur with any of these agreements. They both have two important functions, one that Croatia simply completes or ratifys all its obligations and ratifys what it should as a member of the EU, and from that point of view it is logical that we ratify it and the other is that by ratifying such agreements it contributes or corrects let's say some kind of investment climate for American companies in Croatia and vice versa, but of course it is more likely for American companies in Croatia but of course also for Croatian companies in the US because it standardises legal regulation. However, I am taking this opportunity to warn of something with which all governments, a whole series of governments in Croatia have struggled for a very long time and which would dramatically contribute to improving the investment climate, and also has to do with Croatian membership in the EU, which is to abolish visas for Croatian citizens when entering the United States. You know that there is even a regulation under which, which will not apply but exists, which then introduces visas for American citizens for EU Member States unless the visa-free regime extends to all EU members by a certain deadline after their entry. As far as Croatia is concerned, we have one problem that is not even directly related to people living in Croatia, we have a problem of too many people who have exceeded the duration of the visa to stay in the United States and because of this we cannot formally even get that visa release, but it would indeed be one serious step and would contribute not only, especially after this whole crisis, to the real improvement of the investment climate on both sides and the possibility of economic cooperation between Croatia and the United States. There is then also a famous agreement on avoiding double taxation that goes in the package almost and these are, say, two big steps. These are two small steps, but they need to be taken and the GLAS club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195620	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195621	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course these two agreements that are here before us today, which have been translated into these two ratification laws, should be supported. I don't think there are any doubts about it, and I think there will be complete agreement in the Croatian Parliament. Of course it's a little absurd when we look at it, especially this extradition agreement to see the date of the basic contract that we're kind of suspending. This contract was concluded more than a hundred years ago, the contract does not correspond to today's situation in criminal law or today's state of affairs in international relations. This contract is not adequate for changes caused by some new crimes, such as those concerning both money laundering and committed via electronic systems, because in 1901 these crimes were simply not taken into consideration by anyone. That's why this is necessary. Unfortunately, we have waited for more than 10 years to negotiate, but it has come to the agenda and it should be accepted. However, it should also be said that legal aid will not work if the justice apparatus in the Republic of Croatia does not work, and that is what I have spoken of several times and what I have pointed out in the replica to the Honorable Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we must take measures as soon as possible to ensure the regular functioning of the Croatian judicial apparatus. For days, I was talking about the fact that the European Court of Human Rights made a decision on 16.3. The European Court of Human Rights did not remain alone in these measures, similar to the measure of simpleness, an important measure for Croatian citizens and citizens has brought us neighbouring Republic of Slovenia, they have responded and they have made sure by their reaction that the Slovenian judicial system which has many problems similar to or almost the same as Croatia, as it works. Unlike Slovenia, Croatia is faced with slightly bigger problems, among other things because of the earthquake caused by the damaged building of courts in Zagreb. For this reason, I appeal once again, and I know that I may be boring to some, but this is extremely important, bring or suggest as soon as possible before the law that will correct these problems, either through one law on courts, whether through amendments to other laws, although I believe that through one law supplementing the law in courts or a special law with a certain period of time, this would be possible much better and more systematic in view of the crisis. Also remember, it is necessary to amend the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court because the suspension of deadlines pending before the Constitutional Court is not possible by ordinary law, it is not possible, as far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, only the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, and here we are bound by a slightly more complex procedure, we must have three votes and when we are in an urgent procedure, first when the text is established, secondly when it is determined when the proposal and only the third vote by the two-thirds majority to which we amend the law. So I'm asking you to hurry up because it just needs to be done. But don't stop at this. As every crisis presents a certain opportunity to improve in many things and as I am deeply convinced that many state bodies will continue to function in the way that they started during the crisis. Let us remember just two weeks ago the situation on HZZ when we were faced with huge orders and almost within 24 hours of the decision that applications are no longer required to be made in person but can be submitted electronically, let us use this crisis to bring to the maximum the Croatian judiciary to introduce electronic communications, to ensure that as much as possible no more of this has to take place in the eyes, it does not have to take place by physical presence in the court building. Let us take this opportunity to reform ourselves and to use the things we apply today in the years to come, not more because we are fighting infection than because we want our system to be more efficient, to make our system better and to be closer to the citizen and to the citizens of the Republic. Once again, we will support these proposals of the law, but we appeal to you from the Ministry of Justice to do what is far more important at this time for Croatian citizens and citizens, which is to refer to a bill that regulates court deadlines and regulates the way Croatian courts work in the time of the crown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195622	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is one of the Independent Youth Lists, which will be spoken by the respected representative Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195623	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. So it's an agreement between the United States and the Republic of Croatia, a respected state secretary and someone from the HDZ Club said this agreement was being discussed. it's been negotiating for 11 years. I am interested in what reasons has this agreement been negotiated for so long because you have not specifically informed us about all the elements then because your speech was within five minutes, if so, and you have said that this is such a concrete agreement that has been negotiated for even 11 years, so I am more interested in what it includes both for Croatian citizens and for our judicial and political system? The aim of this agreement between Croatia and the United States is to better cooperate and improve the fight against organised crime and corruption and their transnational expansion. In particular, it concerns cybercrime, the fight against terrorism and other serious crimes. The interesting thing about this agreement is that it's retroactive, so it's in art. 3. which defines this agreement says that when the agreement enters into force, it will refer to all those situations that were before this agreement was in force. It can be extremely good, and it can be one flaw. It can be extremely good what really happens in Croatia is a crime of different proportions, so it is now for example. reveals the same about these suspicious financial transactions. In many DORH reports and other competent institutions, everyone put that focus on the fact that money laundering and suspicious financial transactions are indeed in Croatia. However, the Croatian system was unable to deal strongly with this huge problem because it is criminal activities that are truly huge and powerful, and our judiciary is known to be subject to corruption, especially when it comes to these large criminal activities. Just in time. The first law speaks of measures related to banks, and as I said, this refers to what was last mentioned in public. And I personally sent even one request to the president of the Parliament and the chairman of the Committee on Finance and Budget to inform us what is going on in the Croatian banks, for which reasons the CNB began to monitor closely these elements about money laundering. So it's embarrassing for me that we MPs don't even know what's going on, and it's really a big deal. The problem is also that here's the coronary virus has put all the important things aside and in fact in public space is currently only being discussed, but in the background there are other things happening and of course not all about the coronary virus. The great forces are fighting over power, about the impact on the geo-political level, so these are the times of crisis when other things happen in the background. But I've just read in the media that American institutions have exposed these suspicious financial transactions. There is again the responsibility of the CNB, so why should we need American institutions or other foreign institutions to expose some of the internal things that are happening in the Republic of Croatia without our institutions themselves having any idea before them? So we need foreign institutions to send signals because our institutions are inert. The CNB has a frame that could easily detect these suspicious transactions that took place in Croatian banks, but they did not. Neither did it nor about Raiffeisen's cooperative, nor did the CNB do it in terms of the Swiss franc, so wherever the CNB regulator was supposed to act, he didn't act. And no one calls for Governor Vujčić's responsibility except for us certain opposition MPs, but certainly his responsibility in this context is very large. I am interested in how this mutual assistance will work, I would like you to explain to me a little bit more how this mutual assistance will work, what form of cooperation will be between Croatian and American institutions, because I certainly would not want it to be covered by this agreement to come to some centralisation that will ultimately reduce Croatian sovereignty and teach it to other foreign institutions. So in these negotiations, I hope that since you've been negotiating for 11 years that you've been paying attention to such elements that it doesn't happen because it's clear that American institutions are much more capable and capacitated than Croatian institutions. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195624	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and the New Policy on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja should speak. He's gone. So the next club of representatives will speak, which is the Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and the time will be shared by respected representatives Zekanovic and Glasovic. First of all, the respected representative Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195625	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We live in a world where there are countries with less influence like Croatia, there are countries that have a greater impact, which are also superpowers like the United States, such as Russia, such as China, and we can say that the EU has one major influence in the world and can be considered a kind of superpower. And we have chosen our alliance, we have chosen it through the EU, which unfortunately these days has shown its true face, the one of European selfishness and is falling apart by seams, but we have chosen our own willful alliance, it is the NATO Pact. The North Atlantic military alliance, in which there is a wave of countries that are members of the EU, is also Croatia, of course, the United States. So we chose our allies. They're logical, I'll say. It is about countries or countries built by Croats, in which Croatians have long moved, emigrated and built together with immigrants from other European countries and for this reason, America today is one of the leaders of the world precisely because of its diversity and it is our ally and it is good to create pacts, alliances and to be closer and closer to that country because it is our and our natural ally, and in this once imperfect world we have chosen both our political and military allies, which are the United States. However, when, I'm in favour of this contract and I'm going to vote for it and I welcome it, but still, here's a little bit, for all those who are watching on television this, this debate, to explain a little bit what this is about. Speaking of legal cooperation and extradition, someone mentioned the example of the extradition of Captain Dragan. We welcome that. But no one mentioned the extradition of Croatian generals to The Hague, e.g. General Gotovina or Pok. The martyrs of General Praljko, who also, thanks to a military, pardon, had been extradited to The Hague tribunal by a treaty with The Hague tribunal. There is still General Mile Petkovic. We've forgotten him, the crown is a crisis, so we don't remember those people who today with this crisis or without this crisis are suffering very badly. And when we talk a little bit about a world context, which brings us this, though, to know what awaits us. We've got Wikileaks affairs, we've got Julian Assange, who went from Sweden to Great Britain where an international warrant was launched, and then he's gone to the Ecuadorian embassy, and he's still waiting for extradition, or he's hiding there. We have an example of Turkey and America, Fethullah Gülen, theirs I have, a Turkish I have, a religious leader, otherwise a man suspected of attempting a military coup in Turkey recently. Turkey's trying to get it from America, America doesn't give it away. So these are the examples we can meet tomorrow. So either Julian Assange or Gülen, so that's what they are, so I'd say two key figures in the political sense, which can happen to Croatia tomorrow. And let's be prepared for that, we chose our ally. We chose our ally. If Assange or Gülen happens to us, we have nothing to think about anymore. We'll hand these men over to our ally, and he'll do the same to us, hand over Captain Dragan and so on. But I'd still like one thing. I wish we never had the situation that happened to us when we co-operated with the Hague tribunal when Croatian military leaders, Croatian generals, Croatian heroes, had to extradite to the Hague tribunal, which is what I would not want. And I'd like the Department of Justice to take care of what I said, that in a few years, I don't know why this would have happened. I still have to mention the crown crisis here one more time. The world is changing, America is a superpower. Both military and economic, but here I still have to say that things are changing and that we who have chosen our alliances must remain firmly with each other. Here, colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195626	A respected representative of Glasnovic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-02-0.u195627	Dear colleagues. A miracle of miracles. We now have in the Croatian media space, cultural space, in politics talks, we hear mantra, we have to worry about the future, not the past. And look now. Today we ratify the 1905 agreement. We always compare ourselves to America, Scandinavia, but they're not the same problems as their cultural space, the same environment here, metal, etc., and we always run away from one key, key point. Here's the deal. America has never delivered its soldier to anyone... An agreement with a country to do so, a criminal court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Zekanovic mentioned our general. That's unimaginable. '72. Mr., one example,... Lieutenant, the U.S. Army, killed 300, 400 civilians in Quang Tri province, Vietnam, no one was punished for it, he went to prison, he was there maybe a year, got forgiveness from the Secretary of Defense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a jewelry store in Washington today, somewhere in my knowledge. Americans, they do not forgive treason, betray, because they are a sovereign state, we are not yet sovereign state and nonstop deputies here ignore a key project that is never here... And it's a lustration project because there are people sitting here today who have worked against their peoples in the former system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They've never... The lustration of all laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is all a smoke screen. This, you have Disneyland,... And this is still "Ubobaland." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] SoA has been making as many as 5, 6 years ago a statement that hundreds of people were working against, who were in the intelligence system in Croatia, against their people, the enemy. Where are these people, where's the list of these people? Where's the public disgrace? The Americans, of course, tried their soldiers. In World War II, they hung 150 for robbery and rape, etc., one was shot for desertion. This isn't popular you need to say it now. We needed some of our shooters, most of them for war profit. And what Mr. Schibol said, where's the money that was transferred to the bank accounts outside. America has 16 intelligence agencies, we mentioned Mr. Asaange, I wouldn't like to be in his shoes, if he gets extradited he goes to a court in Louisiana, there's only one judge there no jury and he won't go out there unscathed. And here we walk heads who have worked all their lives against the Croatian state and today overnight have turned into cosmopolitans and Democrats. There is a man sitting there who did not call him well, the code name Odysseus, who ratted out students at the University of Split and we play cosmopolitans and Democrats. He won't talk about himself. I've been in every prison in Croatia, I haven't talked about it before, since 2000, 2002, from... where I have left my papers to Blackiemer because when they came to power these newly-composed communists, they stayed, left, right, wrong parties then showed the right face. There I still had documents in Samobor where I sat like a fool all night, me and a friend, then they brought me into Medvesčak Police Department, a Croatian general. They don't care about the Croatian state, they saved their asses infiltrating all the pores of Croatian society and I wonder this, when we'll wake up, when the Croatian people will wake up and seek the origin of the property of these cartilage and war profiteers, and start not from the '90s but before the '90s, etc., off the Shore accounts. Is one president promising us he'd pay back the money from the outside, and he could start bringing back those $50,000 that he somehow accidentally lost out there somewhere he got from Australia. This battle continues. And we are still generously paying institutions and media, magazines to wage war against the Croatian state. I don't know how much time I have here. Imagine you write in one... in America how a diary shared there, there's Nick Titanic there, that someone write there when you think the American state is going to fail, that's what someone wrote there. When do you think the destruction of the Croatian state will happen? There's a war going on against this country, we're silent, we're beaten over our heads, and we're generously paid by the institutions, and then we're still at war against this country. Here, that's scary. This is a test for the state today, this test, these days, these weeks, these months, if we're going to get out of this crisis as a sovereign people, or we're going to continue that anal kranil inversion and pretend we're still cosmopolitans, and we're not out of the one-party system yet.
