ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3722	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues here in our assembly today would like to talk about two extremely strong and important topics for us, Rijeka. The first is the Rijeka budget as the Marian Breed, and Mayor Obersnel blames HDZ and the second is a major strike today in Rijeka, a host on a strike that they say will not hold. The mayor at his departure, Vojko Obersnel, calls for a financial failure of the city. Obersnel's financial report and the shame of his public publication was actually saved because of an accounting cheap pardon for my joke, not for the real situation in the city's register. In fact, the flood in Rijeka is much deeper than it seems at first sight. Why am I saying that? Because teachers and teachers are paid in schools whose town is the founder, for the first time since 1.1.2020, to be credited with the assistance of entities within the general budget, and this item of income in the first half of this year compared to the first revenues of last year 2019 increased the city's fictitious revenues by nearly 95 million kuna. Of course the money the city doesn't see in nature, there aren't any, I guess. Why would I mention that? How much the financing of the city of Rijeka is, and why I think it is doubtful that the city of Rijeka will in the first place keep its head above water and will be able to meet the municipal services and all others in its jurisdiction is the next fact that the public must know. The drop in tax revenue, from the business of the city in 2020 in just half a year compared to 2019, is almost 47 million kuna. Obersnell, however, blames HDZ for the irresponsible management of city finances, we have seen the government of the Republic of Croatia, so allow me a little more free expression, so it can't be our fault of all HDZ, especially in a city where SDP cheers and dresses more than 30 years. The years of irresponsible management of Rijeka have come toll, and Rijeka is certainly not ready to deal with the pandemic, but more about it at some other time. Guests, speaking of the cry of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, however, there are more argumentative steps by Rijeka to the host of Istria and Kvarner when they are directed towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Today for an hour a major strike by the guests of Istria and Kvarner, the people told us we can't take it anymore. They say measures to preserve jobs saved employees from going to the office, but did not save entrepreneurs and did not save entrepreneurship. The most difficult blow of all occasional passenger transport, event industry, travel agencies, tourist guides, beauty industry and caterers. The caterers said they were closed any approaches, blocked by credit lines, and all of this actually says that the collapse of activity was only delayed from April to November. Istra and Kvarner's host organisation said it conducted a 500-guest survey of which as much as 60% fell in business over 50%, and 40% believe that in the current conditions it will not survive until next season. In addition, even 80% of catering employers will be forced to cancel contracts for employees due to business, and that is because of all the troubles that have hit us. In the hospitality alone, up to 20,000 cancellations are threatened, and for this reason, the guests of Istria and Kvarner today staged a major strike. As far as I'm concerned, and I tried to get into matter properly, they're not asking for any free money, they're still looking for access to credit lines to preserve liquidity, investment and tax relief so they can consolidate their business and keep what's most important, and these are people. We at the Most Club support their efforts. And lastly, in a sea of problems in Rijeka, however, to try to be a little brighter and more optimistic, I hope that today at a meeting in the city, children will be agreed to return to sports and will allow young athletes, amateurs, amateur clubs, dance clubs, to return to the halls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3723	Thank you. Next individual debate, Ruzica Vukovac, presentation of the position of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3739	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me open a subject in this high home today that is so rarely mentioned, and that is the life of women in the country, especially those of women who are engaged in agriculture, especially with an emphasis on those of women who work in family holdings, who are engaged in livestock farming. Their role in the preservation of a traditional family in public space is said very little. A woman who at the same time has a role as a housewife, mother, educator, workers, physical workers, accountants, economists, managers, so society has given her a number of roles that she must master without the possibility of objecting to. Her work must be done immaculately. She stands up for the dark while her children sleep, sneaks out of bed so she doesn't wake them up because there's cows waiting in the barn for the male. When she finishes that part of the job and prepares milk for the delivery of the buyer who will pay her for a liter of milk just over 2 kuna, she returns to the family, the schoolgirls wake up for school and at the same time prepare breakfast for the locals. After she fed the family she returned to the barn to feed her treasure, to clean her stables, husbands are mostly already in the field or are engaged in machinery, except for her stables waiting for her and work in the garden, at this time winters, often also cleavage of wood and similar jobs. How aware are we of the way in which the women who have to do this all have to live in one day? Have we as a society completely forgotten about this woman? Who's in it? How did we protect her? She's self-absorbed and silent, in public we won't hear her complain, nor have she been able to track her children during that line of classes, we haven't heard her complain that she was having a hard time, we haven't heard her complain that she's never, never had a vacation. A large number of such women have never been to sea with their family because the work around cattle requires 365 days a year, work by day, but very often work at night because every other plague happens exactly at night and of course family members have to assist if they want a live and healthy calf and his mother. They weren't old for no reason saying that animals were actually treasure. Though such a woman is quiet to her we must not forget her, she does not seek our compassion, but deserves our full respect. Let's not devalue her contribution to maintaining rural space and living in it, she's a pillar and we give her our support. Many of the laws that we make in this high body create their fates, the least we can do is respect its life story when we pass the law, and we don't. We create laws in the comfort of office rooms. Let's turn around, there are more empty houses in the rural area of Croatia, and we have to ask ourselves, were the policies that led all the governments so far doing so? They did. Of course they are, and so I chose my wife on purpose today as the center of all future developments in the country, on purpose today, because just yesterday, on the commission to amend the Law on Agricultural Land, the husbands forgot about the same woman. And if we hear this woman who is the backbone of the survival of the Croatian village, we will stop the dying of Croatia because respected colleagues and colleagues Croatia is indeed dying in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3751	The next Club of Representatives will be the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Marijan Pavliček will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3752	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. I believe you've all seen this picture these days. I believe you all know the people in this picture. In this picture we see the esteemed Prime Minister Plenkovic, we see the president of the state of Milanovic, we see the political elite of northern Croatia in very intimate relations without social distance in a closed space without a mask, we see the prime minister and president of the state shaking hands despite all the decisions and opinions of the headquarters on how to avoid handling. And do you know who this is? This is my son Filip Pavliček, 7 years old, first-class man at Blago Zadar Elementary School in Vukovar, with a mask on his face and with that mask he enters the primary school. Not only does he half a million elementary and high school kids go into school with a face-to-face mask. And is this normal? Is this normal, is this normal company? And for the hundredth time, we can say and use that old Latin, which is “allowed to God is not allowed to be ox ” or that the political elite is not allowed to be ordinary. The same regiment those political elites should justify all accounts. Immediately after the internal elections on the ruling page, a political headquarters has been formed, which has made a series of restrictions on Croatian society, a series of contradictory decisions that refut themselves. From those who are in self-insulation to being bioterrorists if they go out, to the fact that they can only go to the polls to put a mask on your face. From masks on their faces not helping to fight the crown of the virus to make them mandatory in all closed public spaces. From children in primary and secondary schools having to be physically separated, each class apart, not to socialize, until these same children come to that same school together on a bus, no matter what class they come from. Is this normal? Is it normal for some people to behave like this, politicians in this Staff? Who's responsible for the 15.1% drop in the second quarter? Who is responsible, i.e. co-responsible for 25 billion holes in the budget, as the finance minister said? So just a large part and this so-called Staff who closed down the state for two months, banned the work of the caterers, banned the work of the merchants, banned the work of the transporters, and, on the other hand, distributed four thousand kunas to all of them, and thus well created this hole. Will anyone in this country ever suffer, if not at least, political, at least moral responsibility for the wrong assessments that seemed in the previous period? And today we have come into a schizophrenic situation, and we don't know what the consequences of these masks will have today-to-morrow on our children's mental health, and on the other hand, we hear today a prime minister who says, "I shook hands with the president of the state because I didn't want to be boring to him and to reject him for who knows which time, but I'm telling all of you not to shake hands anyway." Is this a statement worthy of one country's prime minister? Is this how the political elite in the Republic of Croatia should behave? Definitely not, and precisely because of this behavior, people lose confidence in politics, people lose confidence in politicians, people don't go to elections, but only party machinery does their part of the job year by year, from the election cycle to the election cycle. However, I believe that there will still be a voice of reason in this Croatian Parliament, that there will still be those ordinary little people that are not all the same, that we are not all equal and that the laws for all must be equal, not just for some, or for ordinary people, and not for political elite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3753	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDP, on behalf of which the respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3770	Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. So soon, the moratorium stands out on top, on money claims or funds and hundreds of thousands of our citizens will be in big trouble at the beginning of winter. In view of the special circumstances caused by the coronaryvirus, the government proposed a moratorium or introduced a moratorium to be applied in July and extended it by only three months and it expires on 18 October. According to FINA's data, there are hundreds of thousands of new tasks in preparation, which will be a terrible blow for our citizens, and in translation it means that each third family will be under wraps. The implementation will also be carried out under the old law, although the government announces a new law in court which unfortunately is not sufficiently physical and otherwise capacitated. The new law should be better and include that, the possibility that an perpetrator, instead of objecting, would have the right to propose a settlement and so on, outside the court settlement, to settle this debt on himself, and for another more favourable way. It should also be ensured that interest on the principal debt should not be calculated during this repayment period so as not to further place the executioners in a more unfavourable position, as interest rates often exceed the principal amount. Even payments to wars will not be a solution for citizens who are now blocked and who are already in trouble and who have no place to pay for it. These groups should be provided with assistance from the social care system. The new executive law should also ensure the electronic allocation of objects, and not like that so far, where several public notebooks have received jobs that simply could not do quality work. The costs stemming from the very executive procedure are very questionable, so to speak, very questionable distributions, so for example now public notebooks that lead these costs, which lead the executive procedures for a 1,000.00 kuna debt, receive a fee of 30,00 kuna, for a debt of 2.500,00 kuna, for a debt of 25,000.00 kuna 90,00 kuna, which is somewhere the average amount of debt in the executive procedures. By contrast, the legal tariffs are more than they should be, they are very high and too high, such as the high and fees of the FINA, of course all comes to this and the payment of VAT, which is the revenue of the state budget. These tasks should not be highly profitable for someone because they are the poorest citizens, and this should be taken into account at cost. It should also regulate the order of charge in the performance in such a way that the principal is paid first because it directly affects the interest rate. One is also possible solutions to determine the maximum amount of interest in a certain percentage of the principal. It is necessary to take care of the purpose of the Executive Act, which is not only the protection of debtors who are unable to pay their debts, but also the purpose of this law, for creditors to collect their claims for services and products which they have delivered and carried out, so that their rights should be protected. It is not the same if the public service or garbage, electricity, etc. is not charged, but rather the goods and services of a company that can wrap the same company in black and simply prevent it from continuing business. They also often come into inability to collect those debts. Finally, I point out that 100 executive laws will not be able to solve the problem of citizens who are in debt and can only be resolved by increasing the standards of the same [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Pay growth is the solution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3795	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Krunoslav Katičić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3796	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here at this point I want to highlight the HDZ's position on one topic that is quite current or will be current in the next period, of course it is about amendments and additions to the Executive Act and the Law on Intervention Measures. I think that it will ultimately be significantly interesting in particular to a large number of citizens who have certain debts that have been suspended in some way by the adoption of the Intervention Measures Act by 18 October 2020. In this decision, it has set a delay in all enforcement procedures, of course exclusively from those legislative exceptions such as paybacks from the basics of rent or the maintenance of underage children. And in that sense, I think that the relevant adoption of the intervention law is a significantly facilitated epidemiological structure because, as is known, they were so-called. lockdown and in this direction has contributed to continuing some kind of normal procedure afterwards. In short, I would like to point out that the amendments and additions to this Implementing Law are under way that will significantly facilitate the position of all these citizens, and this is an impressive figure of around 170,000, but it must be stressed that this is a significant fall from almost half of last year because they were almost 320 in the same period last year. I think that these new solutions have also been made with regard to decisions made by the European Commission and the European Court of Justice on the basis of the fact that our citizens will be relieved of the situation, that they will be able to work. For example, a number of meetings were held between the other and this month, where a number of directorial costs concerning municipal compensation and all municipal activities will be facilitated and a certain settlement may be concluded. And I particularly want to be very clear and to say that these amendments and amendments to the Law will establish new e-communications, e-processes, will reduce the costs of executive procedures, the compensation for the implementation of these executive proposals will be fixed. There will also be significant progress in order through the Public Bookmark Chamber through the e-Citizen system where at any time a citizen will be able to obtain information on the amount and basis on which the account has been blocked, which has in practice made it more difficult and cost-effective. I can confirm this to you from my own experience because I've been a part of this system for over 20 years. Finally, we feel as the HDZ Club that the amendments and additions to the Executive Act and the Law on Intervention Measures will indeed be for the benefit of citizens. A trend of 5% annual decline in the number of blockeds is observed, and this means that we will continue to reach one of the normal relevant facts. This does not mean as it has been declared to be going into some uncontrollable write-off debt because of course debt is debt. Constitutional principles would not be harmed if the current perpetrators were given more rights than the executives do. The executives are also in this section and continue to address the existing situation in a complete and complex way. I think that to end these legal proposals, both laws of the proposal further encourage the old principle of rule of law and that it will be for the benefit of citizens why and there is a legal system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3797	Thank you very much. That's what we're gonna do with today's work. We will continue tomorrow on Friday 11 September at 10.00 hours by voting on all points including the amendments we have made, and immediately after that will be the presentation of the position on behalf of the club of representatives, so after the end of the vote we will immediately approach the presentation of the position on behalf of the club of representatives. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the afternoon. The session was interrupted at 13:52 p.m. Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that green-left block on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3806	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I believe that most of you are aware that the County Court in Rijeka recently rejected the Croatian HRT complaint and confirmed legally that the resignation of Hrvoje Zovko to the president of the Croatian Journalist Society, who handed him the public service of HRT in September 2018, was illegal. The court ordered HRT to return him to work and to pay him associated costs with a tight interest, but I am not officially aware that HRT has requested a review of the Supreme Court's proceedings following this decision. Zovko was then released once in the first degree, but the HRT subsequently continued its persecution. Now it is legally confirmed that it is not guilty, but it is not enough and that it is not official enough, I say the informal finding of persecution continues and HRT has requested a review of the Supreme Court proceedings. Let's remind editor Katarina Periša Čakarun that after Zovko resigned as editor and explained in his email the reasons for this. Pressures on the independence of censorship policy, non-professional choice of topics, organisational chaos and serious technical problems in the implementation of HRT 4. After sending an e-mail to Parrish, Chakarun invited him to a meeting that ended with elevated tones. A few days later, HRT makes a decision to fire the media just as the Croatian news society held a press conference on pressures on press freedoms on public television. This powerful verdict is among the journalists in Croatia who continue to cultivate real and professional journalism is welcomed with relief as this case of cancellation of Hrvoje Zovka is seen among many as a manifestation of power and another serious pressure on journalism and journalists in Croatia. I remind you that many political powers have filed countless lawsuits against journalists and non-disclosures to silence objective reporting and media freedom limits. HRT is also one of those who often sue even their own longtime journalists and editors behind whom decades of prized work, professional awards, etc. According to a HND survey on lawsuits brought against journalists and media by HRT, HRT at one point had 35 motions to protect honor and respect that indicative amount of at least 2,027,500 kuna. According to information available by HND, HRT has filed 7 lawsuits against Nacional, Index HR, 4 lawsuits against Free Dalmatia, 3 lawsuits against 24 hours and the Jutarnji list, 2 against Vecernji list and Telegram, one against Tportal, Novi list, Media Daily news and Net.hr. Also against HND and its representatives are filed 2 lawsuits point out that you can see it on the pages of the Croatian Journalist Society. And while other media even went to the settlement, the persecution of their own employees, Hrvoja Zovka and Sanja Mikleušević Pavić, continues. Meanwhile, the European public also took part in a meeting of partners in the social dialogue of the audiovisual sector with the EU, so the European Federation of Journalists announced the launch of the issue of HRT suit against journalists. The press union, in addition, raises the question of who will pay for all this, asked the HRT administration to establish responsibility for the launch and insistence of the press trial, who decided that after criticism from all sides and after the first-degree verdict, however, this case goes to the Supreme Court. I think it's too obvious that it's an irresponsible and unwarranted spending of HRT subscribers' money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3807	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the IDS on behalf of which the respected representative Marin Lerotić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3827	Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Here from the IDS we have already warned several times from this pay phone and on several occasions about the problems of the railway in Istria and we have appealed to the importance and modernisation of the Istrian railway for reasons for the transport of goods and passengers, but also by providing services to create new values and further develop the economy, for which Istria has huge potential both in terms of freight and passenger terms. But unfortunately, instead of the necessary modernisations, announcements are coming these days about the revision of certain train lines, which alarms us because we often know that behind such announcements is hiding the elimination of lines or some roads and shutting down certain types of production. I remind you that in the last 15 years many trains have been abolished, the timetable has been arranged, the time of departure and arrival of trains has been moved, the length of the journey has increased, which has also affected the loss of passengers. In addition to all these difficulties, rail transport, for rail transport mentioned announcements in the revision of inter-urban and inter-city lines, is very worrying because, if this happens, workers, but also students and students, will be in big trouble. It will also be a problem for citizens who need medical help as it is often used to go to medical examinations. I stress that it is extremely important for the lines to be maintained and it is in no way acceptable for them to be abolished. Mostly because of schoolboys who depend on these lines because they have a need, of course, to go to class, as well as workers who use these lines to go to work. We also received information that the ministry has not co-financed the bus on the Lupoglav-Rijek line for two years, which connects the Istrian railway line with the rest of the Croatian railways. Therefore, the removal of the line would not have been exclusively negative, it would have exclusively negative consequences, so I appeal to the resolution ministries that the situation with the Istrian railways would not be further complicated, anyway. In addition to the fact that workers, students and students depend on the lines mentioned above, the lines are also used by tourists and it is a great shame not to recognize Istria's economic potential in HZ. I must present information that even in this crisis-crisis coronation of the tourist season in central Istria, the number of overnight stays increased by 15% in August. That is why I note that modernising the railway in Istria would result in an even more positive shift in tourist arrivals. The Icarus project, the IDA Istrian Development Agency, which under the Italian-Croatia cross-border cooperation programme, should certainly be mentioned, will also allow the transport of bicycles and train on Pula-Buset. So, the plan is to redesign a car and put and enable bikes to enter into the same and thus potentiate the multimodality and use of cycling trails in central Istria. On the IDA initiative HZ accepted the re-purpose of the wagon, and thus investment in the same, so as to remove the lines. There's no logic or common sense. To date, an analysis of the lack and need of mobility in the Istrian County and guidelines for establishing an IT solution has been developed, based on examples of good practice in the world, and are also adapted to the real state and needs and Istria. Also, a story of the multimodal integration of Istria is being built, which will result in the re-purpose of the former Rovinj-Kanfanar railway line in the cycling trail of Rovinj-Kanfanar as part of this project. This means that from the interior of Istria to the coast, train and bicycle transport will be able to be combined, making this commendable project of additional importance. From all of this, it is clear that the railway in Istria is very important in the everyday life of its citizens and that its modernisation would further help the Croatian economy. So once again, I appeal to the resolution ministries not to cancel the train lines because it would completely devastate the abandoned and forgotten Istrian railways anyway. I repeat, despite the underdeveloped railway, with poor infrastructure, we in Istria are trying in all ways to give the same added value and raise tourism and economic life in central Istria. Through numerous projects and this way we ask for substantial funds to be invested to modernise railways in Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3828	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3835	The next statement of view is the esteemed representative Robert Jankovics on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u3836	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My intention today is to talk about a small Baranja town of Kopacheva in Osijek-Baranja County. For those who may not know it is a small place in the south of Baranja known for river fishing, there is a Kopački rita about 500 inhabitants on the coast. Two main economic branches, these are vegetable products of the best red pepper in Croatia, or if you ask the locals of the neighboring town of Luga then the second best, they deal with tourism, they have lots of accommodation facilities, they have excellent restaurants. Soon a new $4.4 million kindergarten is expected to be opened, this country, the government has given 4.2 million kuna to build 98%. Kopachevo is known for fishing days, which are held for the 22nd time tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and Saturday and Sunday. Last year, about 10,000 visitors gathered at these two-day events. It's a fantastic project, a real example of the incredible perseverance of the locals in this case, Kopacevo. Kopačevo is also known for only half an hour, but they also had Croatia's champion in the cooking of paprikas fish. However, this beautiful place of Kopačevo in the past weeks and months has not talked much about fishing days, nor about the shortages of the Tourist Board Baranja about the maintenance of the State Cup in the cooking of fish, nor about all the present crowns, in Kopačev the subject is mosquitoes. Komarci, who, according to the head of the Public Health Institute Disinfectation Service of Osijek-Baranja County, quotes "there are so many that we cannot count them". Mosquitoes that make the Kopachants look forward to the evening and cause the Kopačev self-insulation is not really a particular problem. The mosquitoes that in Kopačev in August were fashioned winter caps and visions that even astronauts would not be ashamed of, and the mosquitoes, the children among the first words in Kopačev, learnt how to pronounce larvicid and adutocid treatment. The main reason for this nest is also the greatest grace of Kopačeva, Kopački rit i.e. the inability to treat mosquitoes in the area of nature park. My intention here today is to invite all those who have the knowledge to help us, to help the Kopacans by treating them here's the popular word co-existence of the Kopacans and Ritas as they once could. It is not and cannot be normal to protect mosquitoes in Rita, not to protect farmers and caterers who do not leave the houses in Kopačev provided that their embryos fail. It's not and it can't be normal for Kopačev to be the only industry that blooms as a double-nets building industry on the windows of houses. And finally, to return to the beginning, I invite you all as one of the organizers to come on Saturday and Sunday to the Fishing Days in Kopacheva, give your presence recognition to this enormous effort by the people of Kopacheva and enjoy the culture and gastronomy of this small place. If nothing more visitors, most of us will reduce the number of mosquito stings per Kopačev resident.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4149	We can get started. Today we will declare the amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, second reading, P.Z. No. 2. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the representative Ljubica Lukačić, the SDSS Club, the representative of Pedja Grbin, the SDP Representatives' Club, the Advocacy Bridge Club, the IDS Club, the HDZ Representatives' Club, the representative of Darko Klasić, the representative of Ružica Vukovac, the representative of Nikola Bartulica, the Party's Representatives' Club with the name and last name of Pemetno and GLAS, the representative Natalija Martinčević, the representative of Domagoj Hajduković, the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, the representative Zlatko Hasanbegović, the Green-left bloc and the representative of the Green-left bloc, and the representative named Brumnić. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments submitted. With us is a respected Darko Horvat minister of spatial planning, construction and state property. Ministers, please take your place. I'll read in order who's the amendment promoter, and then you'll be obvious. So, here we go, 1st Amendment Club of Representatives of the Party with the name and last name of Smart and Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4150	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4151	Just a second. Here you go, colleague Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4152	The Honorable Chairman. Before we go to the presentation on the amendments submitted, I would like to request a break on behalf of the party's club named Smart and Focus for additional consultations on how to vote according to certain amendments. It is clear from the government's conclusion that today, which gives the previous consent to accept certain amendments, the Government did not have any desire or intention to change the direction of this law in the direction of the entire urban reconstruction called for by the profession, which we, as a club, strongly support and which we do not intend to give up. The reconstruction should be an opportunity for Zagreb to adapt organisationally and infrastructureally to the needs of the 21st and 22nd centuries and it is our responsibility to use the damage from a variety of earthquakes as an opportunity for further strengthening and further urban development of the City of Zagreb as a modern European green metropolis. It is also our obligation to spend taxpayers' funds responsibly and rationally. Therefore, we are opposed to the model by which, by suspicious and intransparent criteria, huge financial resources will be spent to make Zagreb look exactly what it looks like now, so according to its visions very far and inappropriately, and also the resilience of mechanically to potential new earthquakes that threaten to remain more or less inadequate as it was at the moment of this devastating earthquake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4153	Thank you. The apartment will, of course, be approved. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't proceed at 9.45. [[It's 9:40 a.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, and I now announce again, Amendment No. 1 Club of Representatives Party with a name, Smart and GLAS, please welcome Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4155	Amendment under regular No. 1 we do not accept because the wording under point 10 is defined as the concept of a residential-business building which, within the meaning of this law, is also understood as a business-house building.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4156	Here's an indication, Representative Oreshkovic, you have 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4157	Dear Chairman, we are staying with this amendment, asking to vote on it. In fact, we used that termology used in the spatial planning processes in which both terms are used, obviously there are reasons why, in order not to have a parallel system and to have confusion in interpreting different legal norms that will have to be used during the renovation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4158	Thank you. It means voting on this amendment. 2nd Amendment of the same club of representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4159	Amendment under regular No. 2 We do not accept because this law regulates the way and procedure of rebuilding earthquake-damaged buildings from that date, which is stated in the amendment itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4160	Here's your sign, again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4161	Dear President, we are staying with this amendment. We're asking for a vote on him. In fact, limiting the rights of this law only to property owners who were on the day of the earthquake, is contrary to the purpose of the law. Law rights should be followed by real estate, not property owners. Such a solution is also constitutionally unacceptable, violates constitutional freedoms of ownership, free market and entrepreneurship, and also does not constitute protection against possible manipulations on the real estate market because it is also not technically possible that the rights under this law are followed by the owners who were on the day of the earthquake and after they sold the property.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4162	We will also vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 3. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4163	Amendment under regular No. 3 We do not accept for reasons because this law does not provide for the establishment of an institution but will be under the supervision of the Reconstruction Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4164	Comrade Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4165	So it is clear that this law does not provide for the establishment of an institution for the reconstruction of Zagreb, the Krapina-Zagorska County and Zagreb County, which is why we have also submitted this amendment and that, instead of a fund which is an administrative and financial body, which serves more or less for communication alone, we have suggested that, according to the model of the city of Dubrovnik and the earthquake after Dubrovnik, the institution that would also establish these same founders, which should be established by the Fund, however, the institution would have different powers for, to make decisions on rebuilding buildings, to finance renovations and also to develop a programme of complete reconstruction, so that from that perspective, we believe that from this perspective, it would be just such an institutional establishment, one institution that would have greater powers in relation to the Fund, which would manage the reconstruction and as regards individual buildings and as well as as as to the whole renovation, we believe that the protected whole of this municipality and 3. I think you'd better enforce the law, so it stays with this amendment and we're asking for the same thing to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4166	Okay, we'll also vote on this amendment. Amendment No. Four of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4167	Amendment under regular No. 4 The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4168	Then he becomes an integral part of the bill. Let's go to Amendment No. 5, Pedja Grbin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4169	Amendment under regular No. 5 The government does not accept. In general, the proposed amendment states that this law will prescribe the suspension of the increase in protected rents prescribed by the House Rental Act. It is not justified that this law also prescribes the housing of persons with the status of a protected tenant, provided that the buildings in which they live are damaged to this extent that they do not have a possible stay. All other situations are the same for all citizens and the obligations of citizens apply according to applicable rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4170	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4171	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Protected tenants are already a socially endangered group of Croatian citizens and citizens, and those living on the earthquake affected areas of the City of Zagreb are in a particularly difficult situation. This amendment, you say, is paushalan, however, it is not, this amendment is linked to several others who form a whole that should have protected protected tenants at least here in Zagreb and at least in this area affected by the earthquake. But you don't accept it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, protected tenants are already in a position to be threatened by the violation of social existence due to the continued increase in rent provided for by the House Rental Act. They will hardly be able to finance and pay rents and other living needs. That is why I considered it adequate at least here in this law to react to help them, however, you refused. It is your political decision, but I therefore hope that at least the Constitutional Court will have the hearing and that, as soon as possible, it will decide on a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the House Rental Act that we have submitted as representatives in the Croatian Parliament and will correct the injustice that you have done to them as the ruling majority, and now you do not want to correct it for those who are in the earthquake affected areas. Of course, I do not accept your explanation and insist that this amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4172	We will also vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 6th, Green-left Block Representatives' Club again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4173	the government does not accept the amendment under the ordinary No. 6. We consider it unnecessary because the proposed text is covered by the definition of full building renovation by the applicable regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4174	Comrade Bucky, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4175	Thank you very much. Therefore, we have proposed this amendment as part of Article 3 where all relevant concepts in this law are defined and we have simply considered that, in the definition of the complete renovation of the building, this relatively neutral formulation that procedures should be implemented in accordance with the norms and rules of the profession, so that this relative neutral formulation should be replaced by a much stronger and more decidated formulation in the sense that basic requirements on construction should be met in terms of the Construction Act. This was especially important to us because these basic requirements were defined in particular by the one under regular number 4, which speaks of safety and accessibility, if we know that in this law all public buildings would be restored through the whole restoration of the building, we were particularly concerned that all public purposes would be restored in a way that would ensure safe and possible access to all persons with disabilities in particular. In that sense, we cannot accept this argument and we ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4176	We will vote on this amendment. Now coming up, now there are four amendments that are identical to the content of 7, 8, 9 and 10, so please let the Ministers know about all the 4 amendments, and then each club will individually respond, or the promoter will manifest himself to what the minister said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4177	Since the amendments to the 7th, 8, 9th and 10th amendments are practically the same intervention in the same article, the Government accepts Amendments 7th, 8, 9th and 10th.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4178	Thank you, then there's no need to show off, so let's move on, or one in the content sense becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 11. is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4179	Amendment under regular number 11. The government does not accept because the proposed amendments to the definition would not comply with the already adopted technical regulation for construction structures.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4180	Here's an indication. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4181	Thank you. So it's about the expert remark we received from the experts we consulted. So the thing is, instead of the word reinforcement, it's much better to use the concept of improvement and it's a technical remark. The word amplification can be used in the structure of an element that, for example, by an intervention, increases resistance and thereby strengthens it. However, for the construction in general, the term improvement is much more appropriate, especially if it is used in part of seismic resistance. An increase in the seismic reliability of a building structure can be achieved by strengthening elements, but can also be achieved by softening elements, making diletation bars, removing e.g. some wall that makes the disorder, mass reduction, etc. The seismic improvement is not directly related to the strengthening of the elements. So that's our explanation and of course we're asking this amendment to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4182	We'll also vote on this amendment, so let's now move on to Amendment 12. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4183	Amendment under regular number 12. The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4184	Then it becomes an integral part of the bill. We're going to Amendment 13. The same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4185	Amendment under regular number 13. The government does not accept the concept of a certain type of reconstruction of the structure, therefore complete renewal, reinforcement and repair are already listed in the amendment and repair of non-construction elements.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4186	An obvious colleague of Bakic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4187	Thank you, Mr. President. So this amendment that we've invested is completely neutral, and in fact its purpose has been our intensity to help specify the legal text. Namely, the termology throughout the law is subtle and when it comes to the levels of renovation of building 4 are levels listed in the technical regulation of the 5th of which we were just talking about is a complete renovation of the building, all these concepts are described already in Article 3 where the concepts are defined. However, Articles 17 and 18 first and out of pure peace appear the term of reconstruction of a building that is not previously defined or defined in the technical regulation. From the context, you can conclude what the concept of thought is, and we simply felt that it would be appropriate for the legal text to be useful in terms of its accuracy to include the concept of rebuilding the structure of the building in Article 3 among other definitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4188	We will vote on this amendment as well. Now four amendments to the identical content of 14, 15, 16 and 17. Clubs of representatives of SDP, MOST of independent lists, Parties with a name and last name, Smart and GLAS and representatives of Domagoj Hajdukovic. I'm asking for the minister's testimony.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4189	Amendments under regular number 14, 15, 16 and 17. The government doesn't accept. The project of rebuilding the building is introduced and prescribed in detail by the regulation, all due to the accumulation of the scope of the documentation, the reduction of administrative steps in the reconstruction, the reduction of deadlines and the reduction of the cost of production, resulting in an unacceptable use of the concepts of the main project and the implementation project because it does not contribute to the main objectives of predictable renewal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4190	Thank you. Proposers will now be manifested. The first is the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4191	Thank you, so we remain on the amendment because it is necessary for this project to be prescribed by the Regulation on the mandatory content and equipment of construction projects because the regulation provides for the mandatory content and elements of the projects, the way in which they are equipped, the conditions for changing the content, the design marking, the way and the meaning of the project verification by the responsible and the official persons in order to avoid possible failures. That's why it needs to be prescribed by the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4192	I thank my colleague Nikolic, he will vote, also now the club of the Independent Lists of Apparitions. Who's going on behalf of the club? Representative Selak Rasudić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4193	We agree with the statement, so it is also about the expert observation of all the professional relevant associations made this observation, and we have respected it because we believe that the parliamentary representatives are actually representatives of the profession, especially in this situation, so the profession has, on several occasions and during the previous proposal of the law, warned about this problem, the problem of piling up the project documentation and we believe that this amendment should be accepted and, of course, we are asking for it to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4194	We'll vote. Please now show the Club of Representatives of the Party with a name, Smart and Glass, colleague of Pulak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4195	We also remain in favour of voting on this amendment. The proposed profession therefore says that the proposed legal solution introduces a parallel system for the development of reconstruction projects instead of a well-used main project that does not guarantee the quality of the projects, thus neither quality monitoring of construction costs. In addition, it is possible to perform a certain deadline, perform procedures on buildings without a building permit, and everything under cover of rebuilding buildings, which is at risk of unfair construction and in the most sensitive urban units. The proposed amendment gives the possibility to develop complete projects of the overall renovation of the building by projecting the separation of the work phase to part of the works co-financed, refurbishment funds and works to be financed by co-owners up to the level of full renewal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4196	We'll vote. And the 17th Amendment, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4197	Thank you very much, President. So the proposed legislative solution introduced a parallel system for the development of reconstruction projects instead of a valid main implementation project which does not ensure the quality of the projects, and thus does not provide quality monitoring of the construction costs, which can result in additional costs and extra costs. In addition, it is possible to perform operations on buildings without a building permit indefinitely, and everything under cover of rebuilding buildings that are at risk of unfair construction in the most sensitive urban areas of the city. The proposed amendment gives the possibility to develop complete projects of the overall renovation of the building by projecting the phase of the work implementation on part of the work to be co-financed by the funds of reconstruction and part of the work that should be co-financed. to finance the owners to the level of complete reconstruction of the building. This is the amendment submitted by the Chamber of Architects, Architectural Faculty, etc. and other promoters that I have taken over, and I remain in favour of voting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4198	We will also vote on this amendment. We are now going to Amendment 18 of the representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4199	Amendment under regular No. 18 governments don't accept it, it's as substantial as the previous 4th, so the argument is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4200	Here you go, fellow Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4201	... The explanation is exactly the same, is the same source and we believe that this amendment should have been accepted in any case, given that the waist really explained why this, this solution is not good. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the parallel design system for the reconstruction of the project is introduced instead of a valid main implementation project which... does not guarantee the quality of the project, nor quality monitoring of construction costs, which is extremely important. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And additional costs and extra costs and extra-costs can also be caused in the reconstruction... Of course, I believe it wasn't the applicant's intensity. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is particularly dangerous in this case is that it is trained on an indefinite deadline to perform operations on buildings without a building permit. These are not good solutions, there may be unlawful construction in the most sensitive urban units, so I ask the Proposer to reconsider this amendment once more and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4202	You're asking me to vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4203	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4204	Okay. Then let's go to Amendment No. 19, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4205	Amendment under regular No. 19 The government does not accept it for a simple reason because it was submitted for the wrong provision, it is related to the article. 3., it should have been tied to the Art. Five, possibly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4206	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4207	Okay, I don't see it that way. So, I think the relevant article is changing because transparency is extremely important in the process of renewal, and it is therefore necessary that activity and cost data are published continuously in real time through the Internet platform if not in any other way. So I'm staying on the amendment and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4208	We'll vote. We're going to the 20th Amendment, representative of the Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4209	Amendment under regular No. 20 governments do not accept for reasons because, for the purposes and objectives of this law, and given the financial framework in the concept, there are relatives, so an extended person belonging to the circle of related persons, the extension of persons falling within the circle of relatives would be contrary to the needs and objectives of the law in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4210	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4211	Thank you, Mr. President. I see that you have not referred at all to the second part of this amendment, which refers to protected tenants, but it has been expected, given that you do not care at all about them and their status. But let's go back to this first part because I've already talked about protected tenants. So, I asked that all persons in the vertical line be defined fully in the spirit of the Croatian legal order to relatives, within the meaning of this law. For those who are not lawyers, who may not be clear about the concept of kinship, it is, for example, about the relationship between grandparents and their grandchildren. In the Croatian legal order, for example, in the case of inheritance, it is treated exactly the same, for example, when you inherit from grandparents and grandparents or parents, and that is normal, because it is the closest family relationship. The situation I'm talking about isn't much, but there are many, and often they're particularly socially sensitive. For example. a child's parents died and lives in his grandparents' house. This person will not have the rights that come from this law for relatives. In my first reading, I also talked about the tattoo, and I accepted the explanation you gave when you refused. But in the section relating to grandparents and their grandchildren and ignoring that relationship and excluding them from the law is totally unacceptable. Not only am I asking for a vote, but I will take this provision if you do not accept it, I will be forced to speak to the Constitutional Court and seek protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4212	We will vote on this amendment. Amendment 21, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4213	The government accepts the amendment under regular number 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4214	He will then become the same integral part of the bill. We're going to 22nd, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4215	The Government accepts the amendment under regular number 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4216	The same goes for that amendment. Amendment No. 23, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4217	The Government accepts the amendment under regular number 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4218	So he becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 24, Adviser's Club of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4219	The amendment under Rule 24 does not accept the status of non-usability or temporary non-use of buildings may be changed after a detailed examination by authorised persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4220	There you go, the obvious. Representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4221	This is not an amendment, thank you, this is not an amendment that is of a technical nature, this amendment points to one of the intended and essential problems of this law. The thing is, as the public knows, the stickers were changing, they were walking from yellow to red to green, depending on what people needed at that point urgently, so it was basic existential problems. For example, people changed their stickers from yellow to green so that they could get gas or hot water, so that they could survive this phase at all because it was not in time to access the recovery. Equally, some were heading toward the red so that they could get help as quickly as possible. The big problem is with these stickers, this solution is not good because the cost of evaluation by the profession was not carried out, there was talk of a later detailed evaluation of the building and it did not happen. At the very least, we are looking for if we can't be like this on the day when it was first examined, given that the profession has been approached by these reviews, and we don't see why subsequent evaluations, I will repeat it wasn't, but those stickers have been walking around and they haven't been walking around, so the profession has changed what the profession has warned them about, we ask for for free and not as soon as it is possible for citizens to pay for it themselves, so they have to be refunded, so that they have an additional burden, not only of financial nature, but of looking at those experts at all, to carry out the full evaluation of all the facilities, their current situation, changes that have occurred, why these stickers have changed, is it some fast, urgent recoverys that are quality or unquality, and that only because of the approach that the building they will be able or cannot be renewed. So the stickers were walking, we're asking to determine if it was justified and how the current state corresponds to this real state of affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4222	You're asking me to vote? 25th Amendment Party Representatives' Club with a name and last name, Smart and Glass.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4223	The amendment under Rule 25 does not accept, we have already talked about the content of the amendments, so this law regulates the way and procedure of rebuilding the buildings damaged by the earthquake from that date mentioned in the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4224	Comrade Puljak, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4225	We remain with this amendment with a similar explanation as last time, so the rights of this law should be monitored by real estate and not by the owner of real estate, thus leaving the possibility of the rights of this law being followed by the owner on 22 March and after the property has been sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4226	We will vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 26, MP Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4227	The amendment under Rule 26 does not accept because it is contrary to the objective and purpose of this law, and this article has just been brought into balance of public interest with the obligations of the owner or co-owner of the buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4228	Here's an indication, colleague Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4229	Here I will respect the government's opinion, and at least I don't agree with it being withdrawn completely I think that we should have added that article to it, I've been unsettlingly formulating it, but in any case it's not a good message that people who make it to that economic gain that the government is costing the renovation, especially in terms of fiscal responsibility to our budget that is going to be extremely large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4230	You're withdrawing the amendment? It's one thing, and I'm asking you another time just to get up because it's a practice. [[/Intruder: Yes, yes.]] Nothing, everything's fine. [[I'm sorry.]] Amendment 27, MP Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4231	The amendment under Rule 27 has already been accepted in substance by the amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and is related to Article 5(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4232	Here's a colleague of Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4233	Thank you. The intensity of this amendment shall be consistent with, of course, the accepted amendment of the relevant parliamentary committee. The purpose of the amendment is to better address this problem in a nomotechnical way, since I took it from the law on renting apartments. What needs to be repeated once again is the fact that there would be a provision left in this law that would nevertheless be corrected by the owners of apartments, private apartments in which they live. the protected tenants after more than half a century of being restricted to fundamental and human and constitutional rights would be, would be further punished, so they would be further discriminated because it is of course a completely non-life expectation that people who had private property, so Mr. Grbin is a private property which at no time ceased to be private property because these apartments were usurped under the so-called ". the protected tenants could not, for logical reasons, dispose of their assets in which they would, of course, invest and maintain as good owners, so we assume the consequences of the earthquake would be less. So, once again you should remind yourself that unfortunately this minimal attempt to correct injustice is through Mr. Grbin's lawsuits at the Constitutional Court that injustice wants to be strengthened. I'm sure the Constitutional Court won't accept that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4234	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4235	In that sense, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4236	Okay. Thank you very much. Then let's go to Amendment 28. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4237	The amendment under order number 28 is not accepted by the government. We consider it unnecessary because of the provision of an article. The 5th century 4 undoubtedly results in the removal of buildings financing the Republic of Croatia completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4238	Obviously, my colleague Nikolic would like you to come along.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4239	Thank you. So it says in the amendment, we're standing by the amendment because it says it's funded by the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, not by what amount, and we're asking it to be entered into in a 100% amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4240	Are you asking for a vote? SDP Representatives' Club, Amendment 29. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4241	The amendment under order number 29 does not accept the Government for a reason because it is held that the release of payments in the state budget of the corresponding amount in the case of sale of real estate, and in the circumstances of social or health hazards could not be explained or could be the basis of different abuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4242	Obviously, colleague Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4243	Dear Minister. Your argument that this would be something that people would play with, I think it's completely inappropriate because also people can play with tabular documents by selling in the future, which only leads to our system being less functioning. I can't believe you can't understand that in this country someone can happen to become a social case, get sick or have some other problem that makes them sell real estate, so I'm asking you to reconsider this, this is solely in the interest of the citizens who live in this city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4244	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4245	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4246	Okay. Amendment 30 MP Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4247	The amendment under order number 30 is accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4248	Accepted. Amendment 31 by a representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4249	The amendment under regular number 31 is not accepted by the Government because we believe that the deadline of five years from the date of receipt of the supervisory engineer's final report in the renewal is an appropriate deadline within which the building must not be estranged without compensation of 50 and now 80% of the amount of funds provided by the Republic of Croatia, Krapina-Zagorje County or Zagreb County.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4250	Here you go. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4251	Dear Minister. I fully agree with you that there should be a five-year deadline for which a man who owns the property could influence would be correct. The problem here is that the city and the state will determine the dynamics of reconstruction, which means that one whose city or state will determine that it will be restored today for five years from today, and one who will be restored in five or 10 years from then, that means that he will not be able to dispose of his real estate for 15 years. I'm really asking you to think about this one more time because this way we're bringing all citizens into the same position, so it's defined by the time of the process. He would accept any moment to happen, if the government decides on when someone's house will be restored then it's not fair for him to define a moratorium against that deadline. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4252	We will vote on this amendment. Amendment 32 MP Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4253	The amendment under regular number 32 is not accepted by the government, it is almost as much as the amendment under regular number 31, and the argument is almost entirely identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4254	Here's a colleague of Hasanbegovic, an obvious one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4255	So I didn't see that amendment, which is supposed to be the same as my amendment, so I can only repeat once again that the motioner did not specify the purpose and purpose of this first legal solution, since although I was still expressing my skepticism about how to finance public money rebuilding private property. So I don't understand what was originally the purpose and purpose of the solution to restrict the availability of private property, so regardless of whether it was five years, one, fifteen days in my court, if the state decided to co-finance the restoration of private property, I don't see any reason for the owner to be discriminated and that time period to be limited by the availability of his private property, i.e. through this or that time period. to restrict his ownership rights, so I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4256	We will also vote on Amendment 32. Amendment 33 Green-left bloc representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4257	The amendment under Rule 33 does not accept that it is contrary to the provisions of Article 33. 113. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia according to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia directs and oversees the work of the state administration as well as the provisions of the Law on the System of State Administration and Art. 28, 29 and 30 which are prescribed procedures, measures and administrative surveillance actions, including the authorities of the state administration, which exercise control over the supervised authorities of the state administration. In addition, this law provides and will carry out technical and financial control of the project itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4258	It's obvious, fellow Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4259	... which would ensure citizens' trust to spend the funds for reconstruction on purpose. [[Specially enabled.]] In particular, we are looking for the establishment of an independent body to monitor and report on the consumption of funds for the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb and the surrounding area, and for bodies that will also monitor and report to the public, receive citizens' representations and be able to actually obtain documentation for the renovation so that they can report to the public whether the funds have been spent on purpose. We cannot say that this is contrary to the Constitution because we already have the practice of independent supervisory bodies. So we also have independent supervision, for example of police actions, we have independent surveillance of the Security Intelligence Agency, we have other bodies that are authorized, so to oversee certain procedures of state authorities and report to the Parliament. So it is fully in line with the constitution, however, the question is whether this Parliament also has this government, has the political will to integrate the anti-corruption measures itself into the anti-corruption strategy into this law. It's 40 billion kuna, and we can't accept the argument that 40 billion does not require independent consumption control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4260	You're asking for a vote? ... Let's move on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The Parties' Club of Representatives with a name and last name, Smart and Glass, Amendment 34.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4261	Amendment under regular No. 34 The government doesn't accept. It is as broadly identical as the amendment under the regular no. 33 and the government's argument is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4262	Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4263	We're not giving up on this amendment, of course. In addition to the proposed funding model 60-20-20, it is necessary to enable funding models to reduce the share of state and city funds of real estate recovery and one of these models can also be investment financing of renovations and in fact this article serves me and we are looking for a vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4264	Thank you, too. Amendment 35 Green-left bloc representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4265	Amendment under regular No. 35 The Government does not accept because Article 6 of the Law states the application of the State aid law and thus the scope of the provision has been achieved so that it is not necessary to narrow down the application of that specific law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4266	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4267	The fundamental purpose of the Rehabilitation Act must be a unique solidarity reconstruction that enables poor people to have more funding. I'm glad the government took it from our side. Well, um... Paragraph 5.6. allows a group of owners to be completely exempt from these rules without any property or income censorship to those who have private real estate where the economic activity is carried out may, therefore, be restored to the full. We do not know much about this because despite several times we have asked a question, despite our questions we have not received concrete answers to what this is about, but here private property owners are fully exempt from the economic activity and are said to be financed under the State Support Act. We have, by this amendment, at least or at least limited it to support it, therefore, small values. We will insist on voting, but we warn, we would be glad if we were wrong, but in any case, when that entrepreneurial lobby came to the government, the government met him, so that we would not again be in a situation where the bookies that have several hundred million profits last year in the crown crisis because they have reduced economic activities, this time we also warn ourselves that, and only we warn, this article fully introduces the possibility of private property owners being fully carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4268	Amendment No. 36 Amendments to the Club of Representatives of the Party with a name and last name, Smart and Glass.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4269	Amendment under regular No. 36 The Government does not accept for the reason that this amendment on the redistribution of funds within the budget is notified to the Assembly within 15 days after the redistribution has been carried out, while there is a obligation in the Budget Act to report to the Assembly on the redistribution of funds under half-yearly and annual reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4270	Here's an indication, colleague Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4271	So we're asking for a vote on this amendment. It is extremely important, here and several clubs here stressed that this law is being implemented transparently, that the public is constantly informed of the real funds spent and their redistribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4272	Thank you. Now let's go back to four amendments of identical content. 37, 38, 39 and 40, these are SDP representatives' clubs, Independent Lists Bridges, SSIP, Smart and GLAS and Natalija Martincevic's representatives. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4273	Amendments under regular No. The Government does not accept 37, 38, 39 and 40 because the proposed amendment to St. 12 highlights the need for real-time reporting to unlisted elements or criteria. The basic principle of reporting was accepted, and the details of such reporting differ depending on the place of cost for which the report in question is formed. For this reason, the proposed elements of the report would only correspond to one or a partial part of the report. This government wants to make the upcoming job of rebuilding transparently and fully.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4274	Let's go with the signs. The first is the SDP Representatives' Club. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4275	Thank you very much, President. Well, as I have said before, it is extremely important transparency in the process of restoring the team more because a lot of things will be regulated by sublegal acts and transparency is one of the guarantees that everything will go according to the law as intended without abuse, and it is therefore necessary for the data on activities and costs to be published continuously in the real time of the Internet's path, therefore this is not a significant cost for the public and this home and all interested constantly to have insight into how to implement the renovation. That's why we're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4276	All right, club representative of the Most Independent Lists, colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4277	Of course we're staying on this amendment and we're going to ask for a vote. What's the problem? I will agree with Agent Hajdukovic, so here we do not have the elements of the supervision of the transparency of the implementation of this resolution, which will be highly betrayed and for which the funds of all taxpayers will be spent. In the previous law which could be used as we have repeatedly highlighted as the legal framework adopted in 2019, only a year earlier, and it is the law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, Article 9 defines that the state commission which has the authority over all affairs, makes, appoints the first assembly, and the second of 14 members of as many as 7 are parliamentary representatives. If you had kept that implementation a year earlier, and your majority, and now we wouldn't have to make such demands for transparency. Since you've skipped the law you've brought yourself, we need to look for additional fuses within this law that will ensure transparency of implementation. If you're saying that maybe everything in real time isn't possible to let the public go, we don't have a problem with it, let you in the moment it's over and let go of what's possible. This will show your loyalty to the process of transparency, and not as you are now showing that you have nominally transparent coalition partners who transparently transform epidemiological measures, and may do so in the future at times when it is necessary to vote for your legal proposals. So I'm just asking you to be consistent, to follow the laws that you've passed a year of work, to return the assembly as a body that decides, and then to take care of the transparency of spending money in this, and in all the other proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4278	I don't get it. You're suggesting that all the MPs come back and sit here in the hall? Let me know if that's what you think the public knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4279	No, this does not refer to a legislative proposal that could provide parliamentary representatives with a view to monitoring this implementation and which is an explanation of the reason why this amendment is sought which since this law has skipped what I have warned...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4280	Thank you very much, but please call me when you're calling for me to deny something to someone then say exactly what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4281	I didn't call you at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4282	You said you didn't have the conditions to work and the council here didn't do exactly what you could, I assume you did.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4283	I don't know what you heard, what conditions to work?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4284	I've heard that you feel that the assembly doesn't work in full form, in full strength so that it could work, that was my understanding, if I was wrong, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4285	You've got something completely wrong, maybe you haven't listened carefully enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4286	It's possible if that's the case, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4287	Yes, I don't know myself. I referred to a legal provision a year earlier and to the fact that it's skipped now, so the assembly can't monitor the transparency of the process, which is why we asked for this type of amendment to be introduced. So it concerns the assembly as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4288	Okay, maybe me, then, me if I get my mistake wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4289	Yeah, you got me wrong, but I'm also looking for all the MPs to get back to their seats and everyone can take part in the debate so we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4290	So that's what you're looking for, after all, is that what you're looking for? That's when I understood. Yes, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4291	No, I didn't say that at the moment, but.../Speakers say that at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4292	We're going on, we're going on, we're going on, we're going to the 39th Amendment Club of Representatives of the Party with the name and last name, Smart and Glass.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4293	Here it is, and we're also staying with this amendment, and we're looking for a vote on it because it's important transparency, maybe, maybe this is what you referred to as a colleague, so I agree with my colleagues earlier, but maybe your colleague has referred to a member of your majority who's calling for transparency, and in fact here he has transparently skipped the recommendations of an epidemiologist to show up and vote, voted for the government, so maybe you referred to it, maybe you talked about it. It is mostly about transparency, it is important that we have all the data available, whether they are in the minute in which they were spent is not so important, it is important that other than the parliamentary representatives actually have a way to control how the funds are spent in this recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4294	And the number 40th amendment of attorney Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4295	So, with regard to this law here, very high resources are provided, big procedures will be done, big serious processes will certainly cause a great public interest, we certainly know in advance that there will also be a large number of criticisms. I think it would be in the government's interest to really enable these most transparent monitoring and activities and costs and I think that this proposal, this amendment, that they appear in real time via the Internet, is today very simple, therefore no specific costs, no specific procedures or complications, I think it would be good to think about this amendment and to allow such monitoring.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4296	You're asking for a vote, aren't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4297	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4298	Okay. We're going to Amendment 41 of Representative Dark Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4299	Amendment under regular number 41. The government does not accept it is as substantially identical as the previous 4 so the explanation is exactly the same as the previous 4 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4300	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4301	Here you are, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. Dear MPs and MPs in the previous explanation of all these clubs are all actually said, I am glad that they started to use transparently both in practice and in politics and that we started this trend. I'm not going to give up this actually amendment, I'm going to ask for a vote on whether it can be continued data input actually carried out. And that's what we're going to do to prevent the saturation of information, and I don't know where it really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4302	We'll vote on that amendment. It is now up to the 42nd Amendment of Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4303	The amendment under regular number 42 shall be accepted in part in the modified form in such a way as to read ‘in Article 42’. Paragraph 2 is amended as follows: if persons with disabilities prove their status to be valid documents by the competent authorities in accordance with the direction of the Minister responsible for social care affairs.’ the new subparagraph 3 is added, which reads: if they lived in a joint household with a person with disabilities on 22 March 2020, and the current subparagraph 3 becomes subparagraph 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4304	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4305	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I accept this amended amendment because here we have put it in an equal position and HRVI and all other persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4306	Thank you. This means that the amendment will be accepted, but in a changed form as read by the minister. Amendment 43. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4307	Amendment under regular No. 43, amendment, amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives 6th century 1 by partial acceptance of Mrs. The amendment of the Green-Left bloc Club is also accepted in part by parliamentary representatives Ljubice Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4308	The obvious of my colleague Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4309	So, thank you, we are pleased, of course, that persons with disabilities are involved and leveled with rights with wartime military people. However, we have also asked that civilian victims of war as one concept enter into this law so that civil war victims' rights are equal to those of the military. For that reason we asked, so to get it into this, this provision. We're also staying on this amendment and we're going to ask for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4310	So you're asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4312	Okay, thank you. 44th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4313	Amendment under regular No. Article 44 In part by accepting the amendment of Ljubica Lukačić, in changed form, accepts, in part, the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4314	An obvious colleague of Nikolic's? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4315	Okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4317	We welcome the adoption of Mrs. Ljubice Lukačić and representatives in HS, and it is, of course, also our proposal since it is the parents of carers and carers who were our proposal, and of course, people with disabilities or children of parents are part of the common household. Furthermore, what is only our suggestion here is to change this sub-assembly in such a way as to delete, as a special category, "invalids of the Homeland War", and it comes down to the hint that disabled people will, meaning, be prescribed by the minister responsible for social care activities that will define which all users enter into the concept of "persons with disabilities". We hope that the disabled people of the Homeland War will not be lost in the definition because it is a little awkward that the minister in charge of social care affairs is prescribing, meaning in his instructions and HRVI because since he is not in charge of any record of, of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4318	My colleague Vlasic Iljkic didn't realize if you wanted to vote on the amendment then?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4319	No, no, we don't want to vote, we agree, but here's a hint that we hope that the disabled people of the Homeland War won't be left out here because the only clue here is that the minister in charge of the welfare jobs that are disabled, but not the defence minister. We believe that the Minister of Social Welfare has no record and cannot prescribe it on the basis of appropriate documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4320	No, no, I understand, it's just a question of the club's position now, do you want a vote or do you withdraw?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4321	We don't want a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4322	You're withdrawing the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4323	Yeah, we're pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4324	You're pulling, okay, thank you. The 45th Amendment of MP Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4325	Amendment under regular No. 45, as well as the previous two partial adoptions of the amendment by Parliament's representative Ljubica Lukačić in a changed form in part and accepts certain parts of the amendment of Ms. Lukačić. Parliamentary representatives of Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, yes, I'm glad that you've seen it, so it's necessary to extend the right to, the right to release from insurance or to pay off funds for the construction of family houses, business buildings, residential buildings and multi-state buildings, and to build replacement family houses, because, of course, if there is an understanding of the people with disabilities of the Homeland War, which I fully support, I believe, means that there should be understanding of other groups of people with disabilities who have not themselves blamed their disability and therefore there is no need to limit them in their rights. I won't ask for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4328	Thank you. Now it's Amendment 46. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4329	Amendment under regular No. The 46th Government does not accept for a reason because it is valued for the appropriate ones to be refurbished and to be eligible to pay the part for construction renewal before the start of the works, not after the completion of the works under consideration.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4330	Observation of fellow Brumnic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4331	Your Honor, I think it would be reasonable to accept this amendment to reconsider. A part of the people will in some ways wait a long time after the decision is made and be renewed. This would mean that citizens will finance practically a state in the period until their real estate is restored. When you haven't already accepted these other amendments in the deadlines, I think it would be correct here that if the co-owners sign a statement that that part of their funds is being paid up by the end of the renewal, that they don't have to pay it sooner because, to that, those previously paid funds de facto they will pay interest and credit the state. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4332	Are you asking for a vote? 47th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4333	The amendment under order number 47 does not accept the Government for reasons of being an art. The 6th prescribed exemption from the payment of the construction reconstruction part requires the possibility of the owner's release and, in the case of a higher level of construction renewal, contrary to the subject matter and objectives of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4334	Comrade Selak Raspadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4335	So, of course we're staying on the amendment, we're asking it to be put to the vote. This is one of the key amendments that must show the real intensities of this law, not some hypocritical quacking of socially sensitive bids with certain measures that in practice people mean nothing to some pre-election campaign before the local elections. Why am I saying that? Because this socially reportedly sensitive measure already proposed on the green-left bloc initiative, and it is not really social because it will not allow people to move into their homes equally accepted by the HDZ to solve the fundamental problem. In fact, the proposed legal provision by citizens of the weaker property situation has been damaged entirely because the state covers them so-called. construction reconstruction, however, it is necessary to define this type of reconstruction. For example, construction reconstruction can cost 150 euros per metre square metre, and all the accompanying layers of floor, carpentry, ceramics and others cost another 400 to 600 euros. It is very important to define works of construction renewal by law and inform citizens about how much it costs so-called. construction reconstruction, and how much costs the tenants what they have to do to the appropriate usability of buildings and houses. We have not agreed whether this law is truly socially sensitive or not. If we introduce social criteria, then we must enable those citizens who are truly socially affected to be restored to their homes so that they can move in. If the social criterion as such is not a criterion, then we will simply restore everything that has collapsed in order to restore the buildings equally to everyone. All this remains is hypocrisy and shows no social sensitivity but merely manipulation of the public to gain political points. I can do it again if it's necessary for the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4336	I'm sorry, I didn't understand the last of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4337	I said I could do it all over again if I had to for the Honorable President of the Parliament in view of my previous statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4338	No need for me is quite enough of what you said. The 48th Amendment is a representative of the Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4339	The amendment under Rule 48 does not accept the proposed amendment as additional exemptions are introduced for the exemption from the payment of the works for construction reconstruction which would unnecessarily and additionally complicate the monitoring of the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4340	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4341	Dear colleagues and colleagues. If the only problem with what I'm proposing is what's complicated then stop doing this job. To be a minister, to lead the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb is not easy. But let me explain what I'm proposing. You introduced social criteria after the first reading, we all talked about them and it's good that you introduced them, but the social criteria you introduced are not just. They are simply not just for a simple reason, they have no classes and are not progressive, and without class and progressiveness there can be no justice. I'll show you that on one simple example, if the threshold is 4,000 kuna, which is co-financed by 20%, then you get nothing with 4.001 kuna and you get all of it. I suggested that classes be introduced, classes where according to someone's property a certain part would be recognised. To someone who has at least everything, and to those who have a little more and so on. Part by piece. Of course it doesn't mean and I don't insist that you accept the classes that I offered, of course they're not drawn, so to speak, carved into stone, but you could have gone out with your classes. This is how you create a simple situation that people will, to a large extent, have to say it largely, reduce their assets, and where it can be accurately determined by tax administration documents for 1 kuna in income will be the difference between whether you get everything or nothing. Of course I insist on voting on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4342	Thank you. We'll also vote on that amendment. We are now going to two amendments to the equivalent content of 49th and 50th legislator Natalija Martincevic and representative Darko Klasic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4343	The government does not accept amendments under regular number 49 and 50 because after we have accepted the amended amendment of Parliament's MP Ljubica Lukacic, we believe this would be contrary to the amended amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4344	Here you go, fellow Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4345	So, I'll refer to the first part of our amendment. Therefore, the existing provisions are insufficiently protected by the interests of the state and of all of us who, in accordance with this Article, further participate in co-financing of the costs of the reconstruction of property damaged by the earthquake, and the fact that such investment significantly increases the value of the property. For the category of population defined in this Article, this amendment shall not require or provide for the repayment of funds invested by the State at the time of use of the property by the owner, co-owner or their successors, but shall seek and protect the return of the funds invested at the time of sale or donation of the property. So, the amendment proposes to enroll the right to stock in land books on that property, thereby protecting the public interest, thereby protecting public money. The second part of the amendment refers to the equalisation of persons with disabilities, the previous solution does not satisfy this form that we have listed here, so I'll read it one more time. So our proposal, persons with disabilities and people with disabilities in the Homeland War are being released from payments in percentage of disability on the basis of the relevant... the status of persons with disabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, this previous one we're not dealing with, so I'm asking you to reconsider that, and I'm going to ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4346	Thank you. Now I'm going to beg the representative of the Classic for his testimony.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4347	Here, thank you, dear President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, a colleague of Natalia actually brought out our vision, we actually shared it in front of the club, and maybe we've accidentally cited the final part of that article that the amount previously co-financed by such a renewal is fully implemented which would not actually be, in fact, fit the real situation because we would put those users in an unfair position in relation to the other participants of the renovation, so we're going to withdraw, this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4348	Thank you. Amendment No. 50 and we're going to Amendment 51, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4349	Amendments under regular No. 51 The government does not accept for a reason because it is valued as appropriate and meaningful to pay the part of the construction reconstruction before the very beginning of the work, and not after the completion of the subject or similar subject of the amendment we have already had and discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4350	It's obvious, my colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4351	Thank you, President, we are staying on the amendment and we are asking for a vote because, given the status of citizens affected by the natural disaster and all additional costs incurred after it, it is solid and in the best interest of citizens to allow the amount of 20% of payments after the completion of the reconstruction work. Also, the advance payment where the deadlines for the start and completion of the work are not defined is extremely non-serious because it can happen that because of the large scale of work on the refurbishment of users wait up to a few years without their facilities being even started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4352	We will vote on this amendment. We're going to 52. It's a Department of Homeland Movements club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4353	Amendments under regular No. 52 The Government does not accept it because it is also unnecessary because it is a provision. 7th century 1 is just prescribed for owners or co-owners to provide a part for construction reconstruction, so that, in the event of payment of the corresponding... is given a wiper's indication. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4354	Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So, in the requested amendment, we're trying to solve the issue of co-ownership. We want to help the citizens and in some ways, a lot of these facilities are co-owned, so we have asked to recognise the co-owner that paid the amount of reconstruction costs that wastes on its co-ownerly or proportionate... part of its ownership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The existing paragraph 5 regulates the issue of a demarcation in an insufficiently precise way, and there is a possibility that individual co-owners who are willing to cover the costs of the renovation of their co-ownership, or their share in the costs of the renovation, would not be able to remove the mortgage from their co-ownership, but would have to pay the total cost of the renovation for the whole building, so we remain on our amendment, we will ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4356	We'll vote on Amendment 52. We're now going to 53rd, the Advocacy Bridges Club of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4357	Amendments under regular No. 53 The government does not accept for reasons because it does not have the necessary owners or co-owners... additional and in particular this type of additional obligation in the form of different or specific types of insurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4358	The obvious, colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4359	Of course we'll ask for our amendment to be put to the vote. What's this about? The proposed amendment considers it necessary for property owners and co-owners to ensure the consequences of the damage caused by earthquakes, fires and other risks. Well, of course, if the government, and not the government as such, but all the taxpayers who are, I'll remind you, 80% of the participants in this restoration are giving so much money that they have the right to ensure they haven't been thrown into the wind. I don't know, I don't know, Poseidon, given your policies, I'm not sure what gods you believe in, so he gave you an indication of what earthquakes are going to happen in the next decade or century, possibly the earthquake, as it was before, could hit us right away tomorrow. Well, then I guess we're not gonna throw all this money away and repeat this whole procedure and give back all the taxpayers' money. Of course, there should be a law fuse that will remind us of one responsible funding and remind citizens that they must take care of their own property, especially in a situation where most of the money is given from the state budget. So we'll ask that this amendment be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4360	We will vote on this amendment. Before I leave my colleague Sanader's presidency now, just a few information about tomorrow's vote. So the vote will be at 10 o'clock. We will be in 3 halls + video links for those representatives who are in self-insulation. The schedule by clubs will be delivered to representatives' clubs today during the day, and the clubs themselves will then deploy representatives where they will sit. So we'll sit here, sit at the galleries, at the ban Jelačić hall and in a small council hall and a few MPs, as I said, with a video connection. You'll get a schedule for the clubs during the day, where someone will sit. Now let's go to Amendment No. 54 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP, please welcome the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4361	Amendments under regular No. 54 The government doesn't accept. Content of the matter, we are already discussing this twice and we stay at the bet that it is much, much more appropriate to provide the funds needed for construction reconstruction immediately before, not after the completion of the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4362	Respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4363	Good afternoon, Vice President. Thank you. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you to put this on the vote because I made a mistake here, I should have written that this applies to family and business buildings, and the explanation is the same as for Amendment 51, so it is solid and in the best interest of the citizens to allow the amount of 20% to be paid after the completion of the work on the renovation and also the advance payment where the deadlines for the start and completion of the work have not been defined. It would be unserious because it can happen that because of the large scale of work, consumers can wait up to a few years without their facilities even starting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4364	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you. [[I'm looking for a vote, yes.]] Amendment 55 of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4365	The amendment under Rule 5 does not accept, we have already had opportunities to manifest ourselves. We feel that the same is unnecessary because of the provision of an article. 8th century 1 is just prescribed for owners or co-owners to provide a part for construction reconstruction, and in accordance with Article 5 of that article, in the event of payment of the corresponding amount, a deleted indication will be given.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4366	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4367	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So we're staying on this amendment, we're going to ask for a vote on it. We believe that a more quality solution, regardless of what you say, is that people in the already unexplained cacophony of property-legal relations in Croatia would have a cleaner situation in order to make it better to continue to think that this article better defines a situation where one of the owners solves his obligations rather than being a hostage to allow him to get that indication. So we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4368	You're looking for a vote. Amendment 56 Adviser's Club of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4369	The amendment under order number 56 is not accepted by the government. On this subject we have already shown ourselves, we believe that at this point it is not necessary to impose on the owners such a specific type of obligation in the form of necessary and necessary insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4370	Of course, as on the previous amendment that is on the same track and on this amendment, we ask that it be put to the vote. I'm going to repeat this once again, we're looking for a law that is life-form, which is able to be financially concrete and show one concern for the finances of our citizens, while at the same time being realistically socially sensitive. In addition to the fact that we were the only one who asked for this social sensitivity to be implemented in practice so that citizens can be able to make themselves available, we also feel that we have the right to demand and that we owe it to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia financial responsibility. So, I'll repeat, God, or if you might prefer the gods, then unfortunately, at least for now they've announced the earthquake schedule for the next period. So, since we can start shaking again now, and God forbid it ever happens, let alone after all the buildings are restored, we have the right to demand that the state, the taxpayers that it represents, and also the citizens who have not been aware so far of the importance of insurance, if so much money is given to them, and if they themselves participate in the reconstruction will also be singled out one in relation to everything else that will allow this kind of problem to be this amount of money that is necessary never again. So this fuse is necessary, it points to financial responsibility, and it is not contrary to the real social sensitivity that we have also foreseen in this law, but you have also refused that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4371	Are you asking for a vote? ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 57 representatives of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4372	The amendment under Rule 57 does not accept because we consider it unnecessary because it is a provision. 8th century 2. It is just prescribed that owners or co-owners are obliged to pay the part for the construction reconstruction and that in the event of the payment of the corresponding amount, the mortgage will be entered on or on the whole of the building.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4373	Agent Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4374	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. On whose special part? On whose special part? So the law must be clear. I'm convinced that you don't think that if I don't pay the refurbishment part that the mortgage should be entered into both apartments and special parts of the property, the apartments are otherwise special parts of the property and are registered in land books, and all other co-owners of that building. I'm sure you don't think so. If I, as one co-owner, missed out on my share, so we're not going to put in a mortgage for everyone, you're just gonna sign it up for me. And that's why I'm asking that the law clearly and explicitly defines that the right to be held, so the mortgage, is written only on that particular part, only by the co-owner of the property that has more special parts that have not made the payment of the 20%. So, logic, if I didn't pay the mortgage, but not my neighbor who secured his share. It's not fair, it doesn't make sense. I insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4375	Thank you. 58 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4376	The amendment under order number 58 is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4377	It's becoming a meeting part. Amendment 59 Advocacy Club of the Homeland Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4378	The amendment under order number 59 is not accepted by the government. We had a substantive comment on the amendment in question, so we also consider it unnecessary because it is a provision of art. In the case of payment of the corresponding amount, the owners or co-owners are required to provide the construction reconstruction part and, as appropriate, Article 5 of that article will be deleted in the event of payment of the corresponding amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4379	A representative of the Homeland Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4380	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here's what happened to me, the lapus, we're not the Homeland Bridge, we're the Homeland Movement because we haven't been able to negotiate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4381	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4382	For reasons known. But I wanted to say, all the three amendments that we have made and the government has actually refused to prevent certain anomalies that are in some way common to us and folklore when it comes to implementation, which is a question of different interpretation at the level of some referent, we wanted precisely to trace what Mr. Grbin was saying and to come into the situation that simply in the property legal sense we can tell who is the owner of what and who is responsible for what has both rights and obligations, so we will look for a vote on this amendment because we continue to think that a better definition of the issue of a demarcation is at the moment when the owner executes his obligation, however, something that this law should foresee that it would be easier for those who implement and interpret it, and of course, users.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4383	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4384	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4385	Amendment 60. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4386	Amendment under regular No. 60 governments accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4387	Amendment 61. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4388	Amendment under regular No. 61 governments do not accept for reasons why the priorities of reconstruction are adopted according to the established and internationally established importance of primarily public buildings that they have for the social community. We also find it unacceptable for the assembly to adopt implementing acts or regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4389	SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4390	Thank you, Vice President. We remain on the amendment and demand a vote because it is necessary to define the basic priority of reconstruction and to return the population to their homes as quickly as possible because the whole process of renewal makes no sense if the population is lost from its settlements and the historic core of the city. The importance of the action programme should be strengthened to define the important elements of law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4391	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4392	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4393	Amendment 62. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, although the same amendments are 61, 62, 63 and 64.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4394	I agree with you here already, of course we're asking to put it to a vote. I'll repeat, this is connected to the real one, not the formal social criterion that you suggested. In fact, what will be the biggest problem, which is the most slippery part of this law, is the definition of what exactly structural reconstruction is. One small wall more or less according to someone's intentions will make huge possible malfeasances or expenditures in our budget. So, in this sense, it is necessary to allow citizens to stay in their homes, to be a priority for both social cases and everyone else, otherwise we will have a situation in which the sale of apartments will continue because people will not be able to afford that renovation, and then further apartmentisation of the city center, which for those who are the aim and consider it good, as such loses the sense that even tourists will not come to abandoned city centres because the city is made by its residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4395	Thank you. Amendment 63 Advocacy Club of IP, Smart and Glass.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4396	Well, as you have respected Vice President and stated, amendments 61, 62, 63 and 64 to the government are not acceptable, and as was the explanation of amendments 61 and 62, '3. And '4. They have the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4397	Okay. Smart club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4398	Thank you. We're staying with this amendment and we're asking for a vote on it. You could, as an explanation, repeat a lot of arguments raised by some other MPs, and I won't repeat them, but I'll add something. The fact is that Zagreb is located in a thorny and seismologically active area, so it is not questionable that it will be, it is quite certain that there will be new earthquakes only we do not know when, and the potential goes to 6.3 degrees. What we're saying is that this law does not apply to any abstract buildings, nor can it be financed by some abstract state and abstract city from some abstract financial frameworks according to some plans, programmes, ideas that at the moment HS can't even imagine what they'll look like because everything that's important to begin to rebuild is planned to be addressed by subsequent government measures. And if the government had about any idea what it would look like then it would have installed the indications of these solutions already in the draft provision of this law. There's not a single word about it. Obviously, when constructing the model of this law, they did not even walk the City of Zagreb, they did not pay attention to the properties that should be covered by the reconstruction process. However, I would like to say that HS must take good care of the constitutional principle of equality. The fact that this earthquake has affected the lives of all of us, including those properties that may not have suffered any visible damage at the moment, as well as their owners, have the same right to live in, from earthquakes to safer or at least safer buildings than they are now. The programme of measures should also be taken into account. So if we're already co-financed and subsidized, then equal rights to a better and safer and a more mechanically resistant building must be owned by all owners [[Intruder: Time]] rotten, decrepit properties in the center of the city of Zagreb. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4399	Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, 64th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with my colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me. Namely, it is necessary to define priorities. The priority must be as urgent as possible, the more urgent the return of the population to their homes in the center of the city that is most damaged because we have to avoid the situation so that our center is empty, if we relax once I'm afraid we'll ever again, we'll find it hard to fill it ever again. So it's about the historical core of the building, it's a very sensitive issue, and that's why priority needs to be defined. As regards the adoption of measures, since it is public funds or state resources that will be used for reconstruction, I think it is okay to bring it to this particular house or parliament, of course with previous opinions of those concerned, which is the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County, which is why I remain on the amendment and ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4401	Amendment 65 Green-left bloc representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4402	Amendment under regular No. 65 The government does not accept because the implementing rules as we have already had the opportunity to stress several times are not appropriate to bring HS, will be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the competent ministry when we talk about a proposal for measures, and not as we have already said, not on a proposal for an institution that will not even be in the draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4403	An indication of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4404	So here's our amendment, of course, is in direct connection with our first amendment today under regular number 3, so the amendment that went towards the establishment of the Institute of Reconstruction, I'm just going to come to the conclusion that according to our concept, with our vision, this amendment provided that the programme of measures is being adopted by the Government on the proposal of the Institute, so there's no mention of the Parliament if I'm not mistaken, it seems to me that it was a lapus and of course we're asking for that amendment to be voted on but conditionally because unless the amendment is passed under the regular no. 3, then the vote on this amendment becomes groundless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4405	Thank you. Amendment 66, distinguished representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4406	The amendment under order number 66 is not accepted by the government. It is thematically almost identical to the above-mentioned amendments, so we believe that the Parliament is also bringing in sublegal acts, they will be brought by the government on a proposal from the restoring ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4407	Representative Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4408	I am withdrawing the amendment, of course, that a more quality and transparent solution would be that on such a sensitive subject brings these acts to the Assembly, however, the procedure would be significantly extended, the deadlines of the start-up of the renewal would be further moved, it is the interest of all of us, especially the citizens of Zagreb, to begin the reconstruction as soon as possible, so that I am withdrawing this amendment to that end and interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4409	All right. Amendment 67, Green-left bloc advocates' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4410	The amendment under order number 67 does not accept the Government for a reason because the proposed amendment lists certain principles which are, among other things, not mentioned here, already prescribed in the existing laws and introduces new concepts that are not defined. In this way, the application of other laws and the introduction of concepts which are not set out in the terms of this Act would be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4411	Now we have a set of amendments of the same identical content. And, excuse me, obvious, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4412	Thank you. Just briefly, therefore, a brief explanation of this amendment, we did not intend to, and we do not think that this is the case to narrow the application of the proposed law, we were just about to integrate the principles and objectives of public policies in the implementation of this law, that was the meaning of this amendment and we are asking that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4413	All right. Now we have four identical amendments, 68, 69, 70 and 71, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4414	Since the arguments are entirely identical, I think it would be good to hear the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4415	Okay. ... Dear MPs and parliamentary representatives, I apologize, so amendments under regular number 67, 68, 69, [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No, no, no, so the amendment under regular number 67 is unacceptable for the government for the reason I read and noted [[/Stain Sanader: 68, 69, 70 and 71.]] [[We've heard that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4416	68, 69 and 70 The government does not accept because the provisions of the law do not need to be entered into details of the professional work of authorised persons and excessively prejudiced and if the implementation of the provisions of this law shows the need for a more detailed regulation of certain practices, such a possibility exists in the law itself. By prescribing conservation guidelines for buildings which are not individually protected cultural goods and not completely renovated buildings, the process of implementing this law is shortened in such a way that no specific conditions or consent of the conservator are required for each of the buildings mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4417	It's obvious, the SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4418	Thank you. Therefore, the law should present a plan to develop architectural and construction guidelines for the definition of project tasks of renewal because the constructive conditions of art. Paragraphs 1 to 5 of paragraph 1 shall only define the level of reconstruction of the building under technical regulation but not the restoration technology from each level of constructive reconstruction that significantly affects the values of the interior of the buildings or apartments. On their functionality as well as on time needed to bring apartments into the housing phase. Given the long-term process and the considerable financial resources needed for urban reconstruction which are not provided at this time, the Reconstruction Act would have to enable at least the development of guidelines and documentation for the urban reconstruction process and in order to see the area fully at the level of the historic and urban whole of the city of Zagreb, at the level of blocks, internal spaces of blocks and their arrangements, so we remain on the amendment and are looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4419	Thank you. It's an obvious Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4420	So of course we're asking for this amendment to be put to the vote. The first thing that needs to be repeated is the amendment proposed by professional associations. As Assembly representatives, at least from the perspective of the MOST Club, we think that we should listen to the profession and that we are here as its spokespersons and now I will agree with what my colleague said as an expert explanation, also translate into a broader framework concerning the re-intention of the law itself. In fact, if we talked about the need for citizens to be taken care of and that we needed the law to bring them back to their homes and that an urgent recovery was needed, it could have taken place even before we came to this Parliament during the campaign itself, so that the programme of measures could be provided on the basis of the existing legal framework of any Construction Act, whether the Resuscitation Act was the result of the natural disasters I was talking about. Since this did not happen, but it went into lawmaking which is why our citizens must now wait to be able to rebuild their homes, then we need to separate that urgent recovery from the entire urban reconstruction that is necessary for us to finally pass through the city of Zagreb. Now because of this earthquake, he's forced to do it, but otherwise it should be in our own urban plan. So, just these guidelines required by this amendment point to this one more comprehensive approach that the profession requires that we finally allow the City of Zagreb to think outside individual buildings to watch it through housing blocks throughout the whole. In order for this to be possible, it is necessary to valorise all the heritage of the City of Zagreb to see what is the first category, which should be kept, which should be brought down in what way that whole should be considered. The profession has warned of the need for full urban reconstruction, the earthquake has accelerated this need, and this law that did not allow an emergency recovery that was possible and without it what only good it can bring, and that is the whole urban reconstruction is skipped.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4421	You want.../incomprehensible/... I.P., Smart and Voice Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4422	Thank you. I'm glad that most of the constituency clubs literally included in their amendment what the profession said and that in our reasonings we actually became their true speakers. There's no need to repeat what my predecessors said I'll just add another important element. So what the profession pointed to also raises the question of additional funding models or co-financing of renovations which, if these guidelines were adopted to the City of Zagreb, would give one new power, one new visor, one new resistance on time to come. The fact is that the restoration of even the kind I consider embalming a tronulant, collapsed, long-lost days is going to cost a lot and there's no point in investing so much financial resources that after the reconstruction, especially the city center and its historic urban core would look like this now. From certain interpolations, of course, with the consent of the conservative profession, we should not run, but we should also give the opportunity to restore the City of Zagreb one seal of our time and through the additional models co-financed by opening these spaces, by refurbishing them, somewhere and by upgrade giving us the opportunity to help private investors and to facilitate the financing of the reconstruction for which, at least according to what we learned yesterday about the state of finance in the City of Zagreb, and very likely the state of the state budget is not very well, we will simply not have enough resources, which means that instead of a fast, effective renovation that could make Zagreb a better city more beautiful, we will come to a long time and that none of the citizens' expectations will be met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4423	Ostensibly, MP Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wouldn't repeat the technical requirements either. I would say something else that I was also talking about during the debate on the law itself, which is that we could actually start with this amendment in the long term and with the vision of thinking about restoring just the historical core of the City of Zagreb because the hand on the heart doesn't look great. Zagreb tends to be a tourist center which is through an advent and a whole series of other events, but also as tourists pass through it, but look at only the Upper City which is also the historic urban part of the City of Zagreb. Get away from Cirilomethodska and Mark’s square and you will see the conditions of many buildings. They're not exactly in our class, they're not to our praise purely visually speaking, let alone staticly, in any other way. Some are also empty, so these spaces need to be looked at and put in, in use or in operation, because as I said, if the urban historical population is lost, it will be difficult to return. And for this reason, I think that by denying or refusing this article we have actually missed this visionary thinking or long-term thinking about what kind of Zagreb we want, what kind of Zagreb especially in the historical core that is protected from how we will restore it, how we will put it into function and how we will achieve therefore both visual and functional use of the old historical core. That's why I insist on the amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4425	Okay, Amendment 72. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4426	Amendment under regular number 72. The government does not accept for reasons because it considers that it is contrary to Article 7, that it is contrary to Article 7, that all buildings that are not protected are culturally well, not just buildings in the historic, urban part of the City of Zagreb are covered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4427	Thank you. Now we have again identical, amendments to identical content 73, 74.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4428	So, thanks, this amendment, so we wanted to stress, as well as many colleagues from other clubs, the importance of a unique restoration of the historic urban whole of Zagreb, in line with the conservation guidelines where we believe that, in fact, the previous amendment is necessary, in fact, horizontally through this law, to implement different policies and programmes implemented at any urban level, was at the level of protection of cultural heritage and that it is extremely important that, in fact, together with the City of Zagreb, of course, which is primarily responsible for this, or the City of Zagreb Assembly, the first definition of the vision of urban development and development of the historic urban whole of the City of Zagreb will look like it, and that the programme of measures that will come from this law must actually be in line with this law and help to ensure that this vision is realised through investments designed for the reconstruction, but of course all in accordance with the conservation guidelines for the same reason that we have consulted the profession and received from them in real ways that it should be in real compliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4429	You didn't say you wanted to vote on the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4430	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4431	You're not looking, are you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4432	Since it is covered by previous amendments to other clubs, we feel that we should not Yeah. [[Intruder: Okay, you're withdrawing the amendment.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4433	Okay. Following amendments to the identical content of 73, 74, 75, 76 and 77. Here's the minister, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4434	Amendments under regular No. 73, 74, 75, 76 and 77 The government does not accept. The explanation is identical for all amendments. We believe that the programmes in question are being adopted, given that they are being financed by the state budget and that they should be brought by the Government, not the City Assembly of the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4435	Apparition to the 73rd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4436	Thank you, Vice President. So we remain on the amendment and we believe that the importance of the entire restoration of the historic and urban town of Zagreb programme should be strengthened and we ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4437	Okay. Apparition to the 74th Amendment of the Representatives' Club of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4438	So, of course we agree and ask for a vote. I'll explain a little bit. It is about the need for a wider fuse and a wider consensus and strengthening of this entire urban reconstruction programme, that it is not enough for the Bureau itself to produce it, which, by the way, be told, also said that it did not wait for the law to approach the renewal so if the official institutions did not need it, why our citizens have to wait for it. But to return to what is the subject of this amendment. So we're looking here to strengthen it with the city council, and we're also looking for the measure programme itself to be strengthened with the state commission which, I'm going to repeat this majority of parliaments last year have been made as one that will decide what to do and how to distribute the money in the event of natural disasters. There were to be seven members of the Parliament in that commission, today we are not proposing such a body, but it has all been transferred to the hands of the Government. It needs our broader consensus and wider fuses. In that sense, here we stand for the city council, and in principle about the programme of measures and everything else return to the Parliament what belongs to it and according to the laws that you have passed?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4439	Are you asking for a vote? Next statement on the 75th Amendment of the IP, Smart and Voice Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4440	I agree with the fact that HS needs to be returned to that role that belongs to him under the Constitution. I also believe that certain powers should be given to the City of Zagreb city assembly, yet it is the capital of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also primarily the inhabitants of the city of Zagreb. It is unacceptable that key solutions are made by a government that, after accessing this law, has shown that there is absolutely no vision of what our capital should look like. All that further points to the obvious, as you would call it, without sounding rude, and I can't say that there is intent, but there is blindness to the corruption risks that come from this model. And indeed, I appeal to all those present in this Chamber, and to all those who follow us, to ask themselves why the government should be the one who has the key to reconstruction in its own hands, and apparently plans to implement it according to the criteria, by the ideas, for which we do not know at this moment whose primary interest is being implemented, how it will be financed, how long it will ultimately be, and who will ultimately benefit from the process and from it all. We ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4441	Okay. Apparition to the 76th Amendment, Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4442	Thank you very much. Well, as the minister said, in fact, in the opening statement, it is the financing of public money, or state money, and it should not be done by the government for the reason that a colleague before me said, the government has already shown by this law itself, that there is no clear vision of how it wants to develop the City of Zagreb. After all, if we are going to talk about the development vision, about how Zagreb should develop and how Zagreb wants to develop anyway, it should be discussed, if not the Croatian Parliament, and then the City of Zagreb City Assembly, which is responsible for this and which represents the will of the citizens of the City of Zagreb. I therefore believe that it would be much better for the entire restoration of the historic and urban town of Zagreb to be done by the Institute for the Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb and to be brought by the City of Zagreb, if not the HS. That's why I'm staying on the amendment and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4443	Okay. Apparition to the 77th Amendment, MP Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4444	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Here he is, I mean, colleagues have already said most of this amendment. We transferred that amendment out of the opinion of the profession. I believe that maybe the Government should have intervened if it was disputed to bring the City of Zagreb City Assembly because it is not the main financier to reform it and to confirm it because it is unacceptable that the City of Zagreb's Office only determines the restoration of the historic and urban whole of the City of Zagreb without the confirmation of the city's assembly. I can reshape, there's supposed to be an intervention, so I'm staying here and we're looking for a vote for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4445	Are you asking for a vote? Yeah? [[Intruder: Yes.]] Okay. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Apparition to the 78th Amendment of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4446	Amendments under regular No. 78 The government does not accept because the same is not necessary and does not contribute to achieving the objective of this law. So we expert advice have in the draft law and create another body of similar advisory roles, I don't think it would make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4447	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4448	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, we wanted, in a way, to point out that in order to increase transparency and improve the quality of the performance of what is the historic-urban whole of the city of Zagreb, which is an area of strategic, not only of Zagreb but also of national interest, so that other state authorities can have the right to control and participate in the programme and to rebuild, therefore not create an additional body but only better cooperation between the city of Zagreb's spatial office with the Professional Council for Reconstruction, and, if necessary, other public bodies and persons. So, I don't know where you've been looking for a desire to start a new body, we're absolutely against increasing the administration, and we're absolutely against further expanding and such a hypertrophied state apparatus rather than exactly the opposite, only with the desire to achieve the best possible transparency in quality. We therefore remain on this amendment and we will ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4449	Amendment 79 Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4450	The amendment, under regular number 79, does not accept the government for reasons because this law does not provide for the establishment of an institution for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, the Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, and therefore it is not possible to place in the jurisdiction of the non-existent institution a whole reconstruction program.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4451	An indication of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4452	Thank you very much. So, quite like one of our previous amendments, it's a similar attitude, it's a similar argument. Of course, we have proposed this amendment in line with the concept that has already been discussed today, and we have simply considered it appropriate and appropriate to submit such an amendment and describe the role of the Institute for Reconstruction. We remain with that amendment, but with the same comment as before for Amendment 65, so we want to vote on it, but of course conditional because unless our amendment is accepted today discussed under regular number 3 then this one becomes groundless.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4453	Then you're pulling back?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4454	No, we're not pulling him out. I just wanted to mention that he's directly dependent on how the vote will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4455	Thank you. 80th Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4456	The amendment under the regular number 80 Government does not accept for reasons because this law, as it did in the previous explanation, does not provide for the establishment of the Institute for Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, and therefore it is not possible and therefore it is not possible to prescribe the action of expert advice for reconstruction within the mentioned office.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4457	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4458	So quite the same as before. As in the previous amendment, it wants to avoid overlapping the competences of various bodies and institutions, as well as here. In fact, this amendment was in line with one consistent concept we wanted to position the action of expert advice and, of course, we remain in this amendment because it makes up the whole of all our proposals, it is part of the whole of all our proposals in this sense needed, and its status is the same as before. So everything depends on our position, on the outcome of the vote on Amendment 3. If Amendment 3 would not have been accepted then, of course, this and the previous vote on it would have become immaterial.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4459	Okay. Amendment 81 of Peja Grbin's MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4460	The amendment under regular number 81 is not accepted by the government because it is not meaningful and does not contribute to a better legal solution that expert advice is set up by the Parliament instead of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4461	The obvious representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4462	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Some have selective memories, and you have a selective need not to explain why you reject my amendments that consist of several parts, so this one also consists of two parts. The first part is about what you said. You say it's not meaningful, be careful now, that something is set up by the Parliament. And you know why it's not meaningful? Because then we should come before us, explain and listen to our comments, suggestions, and suggestions on how to fix what you suggest. From your point of view, it is not meaningful, from the point of view of us representatives and the entire Croatian public and the transparency of the counseling process, not only is it meaningful but it is necessary. That is why your argument is why you do not accept that the Assembly set up and appoints counsel is unacceptable. However, I am sorry that you have not responded to the second part of the amendment relating to the composition of the council. I saw that you accepted my colleague Hajdukovic's amendment in part, but I don't understand, and I hope that you will at least answer him, since you haven't already answered me, why, when we have an HUP in the council, do we have unions? So, if somewhere, if we call somewhere for employers and their representatives to participate, I think it would be logical to include unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4463	Are you asking for a vote? ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 82nd Amendment of MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4464	Amendment under regular number 82 The Government of the Representatives of Domagoj Hajdukovic per article. Paragraphs 1 and 2 would rightly be adopted in part in a modified form in a way that: Paragraphs 2 and 3 shall read as follows: "The expert council has a president, two vice presidents and 20 members and 20 deputies," p. 3. "The President and his deputies and members of the expert council shall appoint and resolve the Government. The president is appointed from the ranks of state officials, one deputy is appointed from the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the other from the order of officials or officials of the City of Zagreb. One member and his deputy are named from the order of experts of the Ministry, the Ministry of Culture, the expert of the Civil Engineering Faculty of Zagreb, the Faculty of Architecture, the Faculty of Architecture, the Croatian Chamber of Engineering, Croatian Chamber of Engineering, Croatian Chamber of Engineering, Croatian Chambers of Electrical Engineering, HGK, Chamber of crafts, Croatian Associations of Employers, Croatian Association of Construction Engineers, Association of Architecture Zagreb, Croatian Chambers of Engineering and Institute of Art History, City Institute for the Protection of Cultural and Nature of the City of Zagreb, Geophysical Section of the Natural History and Mathematical Faculty of the University of Zagreb, the Faculty of Economics, the Faculty of Law of the University of Zagreb and the Fund for Reconstruction.”
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4465	Mr. Hajdukovic's explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So my amendment was just going towards having a Croatian Chamber of Commerce on the Council would be unfair and discriminatory to exclude Croatia's crafts chamber since many of the jobs that are done in construction and construction work exist on the market in the form of crafts, not in the form of companies. So I think that injustice has been corrected. I'm glad that the craftsman's chamber is included in the advice, I'm glad that there are some other professional institutions that were supposed to be inside, and I'm sorry to say that there's no union I share it with my colleague, Pejo, but I can live with this. I think the intensity of my amendment is fulfillment and I accept this amended proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4467	And you're giving up the amendment? Okay. Amendment 83. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4468	Amendment under regular number 83. The government does not accept because it is held that the expert council should not be a representative of the building manager, and we note that, as a member of the expert board, a representative of the Faculty of Law will therefore be represented in the expert council itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4469	On behalf of the representative of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4470	Dear Ministers,.../incomprehensible/... to make decisions that are enforceable, if you have no idea what the problems will be you will make very difficult decisions that you will then be able to make on the ground. And that was the idea of this amendment, to get someone from the real real real sector to deal with the implementation of it, or practically the one that will manage it in front of the co-owner. So I don't accept your explanation. I thank you for putting the Faculty of Law, or perhaps someone who will be able to follow it better on the legal side. Here, we're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4471	Okay, 84th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4472	So, given the acceptance of the Amendment 82 in part, in a changed form, we believe that we have already accepted Amendment number 84's intensity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4473	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4474	I understand what you're trying to say, but we're still going to put it to the vote. You can take it partly and cynically since it is unclear what this advice is because I will remind you you listed in this advice a list of beautiful desires almost all important professional associations. The same professional associations have already sent you their amendments to tell you what they consider to be missing from this law, and you have rejected them. So it is very cynical of you to enjoin them in the advice of those whose counsel you will heed. I would then suggest to you that this advice may also bring some type of recommendation, similar to what is happening both now and in an epidemiological situation that is worrying, and that no one knows, and I am speaking from the mouth of a legal profession that I have consulted with exactly what the recommendations mean. So also the role of the advice that you here have nominally given on importance, and the same advice informally that is being established before the adoption of this law you have already refused by rejecting its amendments is a pure performance, so as far as we're concerned, you can erase the whole item. And as for the legal profession to be concrete, which we have been looking for here, since corruption in all the reports regarding Croatia is the most referred to in the construction sector, it would not be worse for someone who knows criminal law well in the advice because given that you are now denying the profession is not, it is not difficult to assume that we will need just such experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4475	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4476	I'm looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4477	The 85th Amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4478	It's just, if I can ask one thing, which is we're going to vote on something that's already become an integral part of the law, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4479	85th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4480	So, the amendment under regular number 85. The government does not accept it because we hold that the expert council does not need a representative of the Ministry of Justice, so we have included a legal profession in the council, as well as a representative of the State Geodetic Administration, because the representative of the Ministry of Economy is already in the council. We also believe that by including a representative on the very expert advice of the Faculty of Law we have satisfied the partial intensity of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4481	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4482	Dear Mr Vice-President, we believe that it is necessary to include people on the ground who will implement these provisions, and then, as a matter of principle, we are talking about members of the Ministry of Justice to experts in the Law on Land Books and Law on Ownership and Experts from the State Geodesy Administration for the reasons that they will speed up the implementation of the provisions themselves. I'll just point out the problem of eventually removing the building for reconstruction. So we have the very registration of removals from the cadastres, enrollment in land books, and then it's very complicated, and if we know that there's a lot of out-of-book ownership, it should definitely be included in the very implementation of this law, because that would definitely speed up the whole process, and that's for the purpose of this law and the citizens of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4483	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4484	I'm putting it to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4485	Okay. The 86th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4486	So, by accepting Amendment No. 82 in the modified form and inclusion of the experts GO of the Physical Department of Natural History of the Faculty of Mathematics at the University of Zagreb, we believe that we have accepted Amendment 86 in the modified form.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4487	That's when you named it the wrong name, the name of the non-existent institution, and that's what we're doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4488	You're giving up?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4489	Yes, so there is no need for that amendment anymore since it was adopted by the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4490	You're giving up the amendment. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4491	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4492	All right. 87th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4493	Amendment under regular No. 87 governments do not accept because we hold that we do not need a representative of the Union of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia in the expert council in view of the subject, content and implementation of the objectives of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4494	Here you go, Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4495	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, we at the Green-Left Block Club were not convinced because it is an expert body, we were not convinced that it is necessary to include in this advice the Croatian Employers' Association when it is already as completely identical as our colleague Grbin argued, for the same reason we suggested that the Council be involved, the trade unions were included, in this sense this amendment was necessary for us and we stay with it and we ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4496	Are you asking for a vote? Okay. 88th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4497	Amendment under regular No. 88 governments do not accept for reasons because the action programmes are being developed in cooperation with the expert advice, and decisions are being taken in the administrative process, and in line with the programmes of measures that we will be working with expert advice experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4498	A review of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4499	Thank you, Vice President HS. Mr. Minister, we are asking for a vote on this amendment because when we submitted it, our intention was more precise and, more specifically, to regulate and strengthen the advisory powers of the expert council. This means that it can give, so the expert advice can give its opinion on all programmes, and in particular on the Programme of the complete restoration of the historic urban whole of the City of Zagreb, as well as on the decisions of the reconstruction fund that can depend on respecting and implementing professional criteria. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4500	Thank you. 89th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representative Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4501	Amendment under regular No. 89 governments do not accept for reasons because this law does not provide for the establishment of the Institute for Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska County and Zagreb County, and therefore it is not possible to carry out administrative technical work of the professional council within the mentioned institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4502	View green-left block.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4503	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, for the exact same reason just of course from the completely opposite position we stay with this amendment, it's real with our concept completely analogous as it was with a few previous amendments. We felt, therefore, that this amendment was necessary to define and position the role of the institutions as we have seen conceptually this law and therefore, and we remain on this amendment and we ask that it be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4504	The 90th Amendment is Pedja Grbin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4505	Amendment under regular No. 90 governments do not accept it for a reason because no amendment has been accepted to establish a council of experts but is set up by a government that is actually expert advice and responsible for its work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4506	A review of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4507	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Secretary. Speaking of this law, the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia said that the reconstruction would cost more than 80 billion kuna in total. Speaking further about the part that will be co-financed by public authorities, so the Republic of Croatia, the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County, we talked, if I am not mistaken, about amounts greater than 40 billion kuna. If we assume that the reconstruction could last 10 years here is about the single largest investment probably in the history of the Republic of Croatia, I think we'll agree on that. If we have an individual largest investment in the history of the Republic of Croatia then it would be logical whether the Council will establish the Government of the Republic of Croatia or HS, that the advice report is, and we will repeat, the key body in the reconstruction because it participates in the creation of a key document in the reconstruction, and that is the programme of measures, then it would be logical that the advice is submitted once a year by the HS report. This report would allow us and the citizens and citizens of the City of Zagreb, as well as the entire Croatian public, because this reconstruction pays the entire Republic, to read all relevant things on a one-year basis and to conduct this debate. However, you reject it because it is obvious that transparency is not only in the first place but it is probably an incomprehensible concept for you. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4508	Amendment 91 to the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4509	Amendment under regular No. 91 governments don't accept. The substance of the amendment in question has already been discussed under another number, but in the wording under point 10, the defined concept of a residential business building in this sense, in the sense of this law treated in a completely identical manner or implies and a business residential building.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4510	I.P., Smart, Voice Club. There isn't? There is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4511	We're staying with the amendment, we're asking for a vote on it. We are also staying with that argument that we have highlighted in all previous amendments. It seems to me that from what we have heard so far from the rulings, it is clear how slightly and hypocritical those of your opening remarks, how you will be open when you create this law, not only to constructive proposals that come from the opposition but also to the requirements of the profession. You've trampled your own word, so I think maybe from a number of amendments, maybe it's actually become a groundless debate. The law itself has been placed on the wrong foundations, a complete reconstruction is directed in a completely wrong and missed direction, and it is obvious that one of the only intentions of the rulings was to control through the fund, through a single flow boiler distribution of financial resources that we do not even know at this time how it will be obtained, from which funds, from which we will ultimately repay the debts of the loans that we will have to raise, how these financial resources will be distributed, in order and as I said, who will be the end-users of allegedly restored real estates. I will re-emphasise what the representatives of the profession have said, as well as numerous representatives from different clubs. The immediate recovery should have been separated from this law, and it could have been implemented under existing regulations, for which it did not become absolutely any obstacles. So again I'm asking a bit of a rhetorical question. What was the government really trying to achieve with this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4512	Now we're going to a set of amendments of identical content. 92, 93, 94, 95, 96 and 97, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4513	Amendments under regular number 92, 93, 94, 95, 96 and 97 are accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4514	They become an integral part of the law. We're going to Amendment 98. Amendment 98 is the same as Amendment 99, 100 and 101, the same content. ... 101. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4515	So the explanation for Amendment 98, 99, 100, 101 will be exactly the same. Subject amendments The Government does not accept for reasons because this law separates procedures in the reconstruction of buildings and family homes because of the completely different conditions in which they are located, and therefore we do not find it possible to apply a combined method of such renewal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4516	Okay. It's obvious, the SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4517	Dear Minister, I don't understand why you can't accept this amendment when you're doing a constructive reconstruction, if you know anything about construction, then very likely, very often solutions will appear where you can add some bearing, bearing element to bridge the existing structure and resuscitate the object in a cheaper way. With your solution, you are practically disabling any possibility, or you are asking for everything to be performed in absolutely existing gauges. In addition, such logic implies that it is possible in the same process of addition, with it being talked about in accordance with spatial plans, which I must admit, it makes no sense. Because if you can do something in one, in two procedures, why can't you do it in one. Especially if it's more likely for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4518	Are you asking for a vote? ... Amendment 99, Advocacy Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, here's an indication. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4519	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Not to repeat now the arguments stated by a colleague before me, too, we will ask for a vote that these two points be placed also in the text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4520	Thank you. Amendment 100, I.P., Smart and Voice Club, clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4521	... The amendments cannot correct these shortcomings, but the amendments that we have made, we have put forward, among other things, in order to point out all the problems to the profession, and I will, regardless of how amendments and all the legislation will be voted, refer to this amendment and what we wanted to achieve with it. [[Specially enabled.]] We therefore believe that it is necessary to establish the full range of works and the cost of reconstruction both of those charged by the individual and those paid on the burden of the state and the city, to the full usability of the buildings. Therefore, citizens must know how much this ultimately costs, including those final works, before applying for a project or measures. And in order to carry out technical financial controls, we need to be able to compare different solutions and different variants, and we are going back to those alternative funding models that this bill does not account for at all. So we ask that this amendment be voted on so that tomorrow we can know exactly how open the government really was and how aware of the warnings, warnings reasoned and given in time that the complete model of ideas and direction of reconstruction has been set up from the very beginning and wrongly directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4522	Are you asking for a vote? 101st Amendment Club of Representatives, pardon MP Domagoj Hajduković. [[I'm looking for a vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4523	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The purpose of this amendment was to enable the building to be built up in accordance with the current urban plans. It is necessary to enable the basis of the reconstruction projects in parallel with the projects of removing and building a new building to assess the viability of one or another type of procedure and to decide on an optimal type of procedure. That's why I'm staying on the amendment and asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4524	102 amendment by attorney Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4525	So the 102 amendment is essentially exactly the same as the previous one, so the argument is the exact same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4526	Representative Martincevic doesn't have any. Amendment 103 of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4527	The amendment under order number 103 is not accepted by the Government for reasons of Article 3. 16. includes the restoration of all types of buildings and those located in the historic part of the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4528	A review, the Homeland Movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4529	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. The desire for us to propose this amendment is to point to the specificity of the centre of Zagreb, which is built blockically and historicly is the core of our building, and with this amendment we would get that the funds would be invested in the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb as well as the construction procedures that would be done would be the most rational and most useful, and beyond that would not happen that the buildings that are being renovated in this reconstruction that are planned to be restored to be in a worse situation as regards the risk of a new earthquake than how they were at the moment before the earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4530	Are you asking for a vote? 194 amendment Club of Green-Left Block Representatives. [[Intruder: We are looking for a vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4531	The amendment under Rule 104 does not accept and find it necessary to shorten in this way the provisions clearly and unequivocally defined in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4532	A review, Green-Left Block Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Now your explanation is completely contradictory to one previous where we in one of our previous amendments reacted to your introduction of the concept of rebuilding the structure of the building, the newly introduced concept in Articles 17 and 18 which in Art. 3. You haven't defined at all. That's when we turned our attention to it, you said it wasn't necessary. Now in this amendment, we have just suggested that this term that you have introduced somewhere in the middle of the law is used precisely for the accuracy and precision of the expressions, and now you say that there is no need for it. The second thing I wanted to mention about this amendment is the fact that he now needs to be changed and in line with what the Government has adopted. This is also one of our previous amendments which responded to the fact that it was stated in the legal text that the repair of non-building elements should be implemented in accordance with the programmes of measures. We intervened by saying that the repair of non-building elements should be carried out in accordance with the technical regulation, the government has accepted it, and in this respect it is consistent to change that formulation here as well. And I would finally draw attention to the end of this paragraph where it is said that the renewal is carried out in accordance with the technical regulation if this law is not prescribed otherwise, and this law is not prescribed otherwise and should not be so in that sense this end of the sentence is excess. Therefore, because of all of the above, we think that this amendment is very much in place, we need to stay with it and pray for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4534	All right. Now we have a series of amendments to identical content 105, 106, 107, 108 and 109, so here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4535	The amendments are similar to the content, so the amendments under regular number 105, 106, 107, 108, 108 are not accepted by the government in the opinion that they are art. 16 clearly and unequivocally arranged and there is no need to change or supplement it at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4536	Okay. SDP Representatives' Club, 105th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4537	Dear Minister. Not accepting this amendment actually shows how much you don't understand the decision-making of this renewal law because if you don't allow someone to choose between different variant solutions in order to see which way and what costs will come to the goal, then you're actually going into a path that you don't know how much it's going to cost. This amendment offered you the opportunity to make a variety of solutions where then, on the one hand, the countries that finance 80%, on the other hand, citizens who finance 20% of the constructive reconstruction and the whole final processing of their real estate, will be able to choose as much as possible for them and for which alternative solution is more worth it. I think that by not accepting this amendment you are making a huge mistake also according to the budget of the Republic of Croatia, but also according to the citizens of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County in making decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4538	Thank you. 106th Amendment Advocacy Club of Independent Lists Bridges. Here's a review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4539	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers and respected colleagues and colleagues. Of course we don't agree with Mr. Secretary's position and we'll request the vote of this amendment. We have proposed that the project to restore Zagreb for full recovery and the necessary project, depending on the degree of damage, be organised what we have stated in terms of the project, for the very reason that the funding goes from 3 streams and technical financial control only in this scale and in this amount of the actual amount of this reconstruction can be monitored only at the project level. We also believe that you are making a big mistake of not accepting this amendment because it was possible in this amendment to connect this technical financial component where, on the one hand, architects, builders, statisticians and all others could follow their part of the work, so all of those materials used to be refurbished while on the other hand finance could monitor spending and transparently publish it to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, what has been dropped in general in the strategy itself which will be touched as well as the seismic certificate is something that we call a technology book that was one Italian, it was the Italian solution to their earthquakes where they are actually listed, it is one database where property legal relations, construction, any changes that would now be too much needed because we would be the basis for upgrading with these projects. And we think this amendment should really be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4540	The President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, if only with one additional clarification, can connect the Amendments under regular number 105, 106, 107, 108 and 109, for a simple reason, because we are the Amendment under regular number 109, and the content is approximately the same of these amendments ready to be adopted in a modified form in such a way as to supplement paragraph 9 of Article 16 beyond paragraph 8 and which would then read in paragraph 9: ‘The affairs of the regular administration referred to in paragraph 8 of this Article shall be considered to be the decision of the co-owners on the renewal, construction of replacement family houses and payment of monetary assistance.’ which, at this point, significantly alters the structure and amendments, or my response and the evolution of Amendment 105, 106, 107, 108 and 108.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4541	Do you accept this? You're giving up the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4542	Therefore, the amendments under regular numbers 105, we are talking about Article 16, so we are talking about paragraphs 8 and 9 and in some of the amendments proposed in paragraph 10 if some of the amendments previously submitted were adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4543	Then do you accept giving up the amendment? No, SDP, 105. I told the SDP club. Here, please listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4544	So I will repeat once again, the amendments 105, 106, 107, 108 and 109 are practically similar amendments. We are prepared to accept the amendments in the modified form in a way that the decision of co-owners on the renewal, construction of the replacement family home and the payment of financial assistance is included in the existing paragraph 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4545	105th, we're talking 105th.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4546	I may, Vice President, correct me if I'm wrong, at the beginning the motioner said he refuses the amendments because.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4547	Yeah, he checked it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4548	So, including Amendment 109, which then substantially changes all of this in amendments 105 to 108.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4549	Do you accept in this changed form? SDP, SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4550	I can speak for myself, this is now an ad hoc proposal, you understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4551	The gentleman spoke for SDP Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4552	So, on behalf of the SDP I can't, I'm saying we didn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4553	You don't accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4554	Then we'll ask for a vote and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4555	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4556	I'm looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4557	SDP? Same thing. Bridge? Do not accept this modified [[Intruder: We will also ask for a vote.]] Okay. [[Intruder: No.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4558	In 109, therefore, Amendment 109 was proposed to be accepted in the amended form and submitted by Parliament's representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4559	I know, I know it's the same. Smartly, IP and GLAS do you accept this amended amendment in this way?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4560	No, we don't accept and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4561	You're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4563	Okay. Domagoj Hajdukovic is also asking for a vote, okay. Representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4564	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4565	The microphone, please, please, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4566	I accept, therefore, this amendment relating to Article 16(9), which is added and on that side we withdraw that amendment, but I have not expressed my position on the preceding paragraph 1 so removal, replacement of buildings or houses. So that's what I'm asking you to read.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4567	So we're talking...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4568	So I accept this yours, accept and withdraw the amendment, but before that I should have given under paragraph 107 of the Amendment, which refers to Article 16(1). Okay, okay, I accept, it's changed and okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4569	Okay, so it's becoming an integral part, okay. 110. It's the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4570	Amendment under regular number 110. The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4571	Accepts, becomes an integral part. Amendment 111. A representative SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4572	So, the amendment under regular number 111. The government does not accept, for reasons, that the performance of works above the level laid down in the technical regulation cannot be derivated by the provisions of the Property Act but only in the case of renewals in accordance with the technical regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4573	SDP review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4574	The Honorable Ministers were concerned that when it comes to going to a level of more resolution that the affairs of regular administrations considered the decision to go to a higher level of renewal than the one determined by your decision. I don't see any reason since we're all witnessing how much trouble we've made inside a building, so I'd like you to think again about accepting this amendment, because of the simple implementation later, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4575	Are you asking for a vote? Okay. [[Intruder Brumnić: Yes.]] Now we have a series of identical amendments, 112, 113, 114, 115 and 116, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4576	Therefore, amendments under regular number 112, 113, 115 and 116 will not be accepted by the Government, or the reasoning will be the same and the seismic certificate is not necessarily accepted for all buildings that are being renovated and not only for level 3 or higher buildings but in accordance with technical regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4577	It's obvious, the SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4578	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So we think that the seismic certificate should only be given to buildings with reinforced structure, not buildings restored by repairing the structure to the same level before the earthquake, because I think it's very clear why and how and for that reason we stay on the amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4579	Are you looking for a vote? 113, Adviser's Club of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4580	We do not agree, however, that our comment would be that the seismic certificate as such is necessary in any new building where experts, since we are in the area where there is a very pronounced earthquake that we have seen in our Dubrovnik and Stone, would have been necessary to issue the profession for a seismic certificate that would have been in line with the applicable regulations, first of all Eurkod 8 which refers to earthquakes but not only that, I think it is necessary to touch something already from the MOST club, which is this technological book that would include not only a seismic certificate but also a certificate of renewal, so a construction certificate and all of some changes that were on the building itself and we think that this law is an opportunity to create a complete database that would be very useful, for example, in a Markuševec where buildings and objects that are illegally built. If we had such a database, we could react much more easily now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4581	Are you asking for a vote? 114 amendments, IP, Smart and Glass Club. [[Intruder Troscott: We are looking for a vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4582	We're staying with this amendment, we're asking to vote on it, but on this very example, I'm going to explain that even if you've adopted and accepted the amendment, the problem would not be solved, so no matter how many times it takes, which can correct a fundamentally bad and wrongly-oriented law. So we talked a lot during the first reading and second reading of the Solidarity Act, and we do not notice that through a number of provisions, the basic constitutional principle of equality of citizens is being violated. So, for example, two photos, I'm going to ask a question, what about the chances of other city neighborhoods and intact properties, not only in Zagreb, but also in the rest of Croatia? So whether real estate owners, for example, in Trešnjevci and other parts of Croatia, are also at great risk of earthquakes, we ask them to co-finance the restoration of damaged property in the city of Zagreb, so we can ask them to strengthen the mechanical resistance of individual buildings from earthquakes that will receive this seismic certificate and thus be in a better position on the market, in the sale of real estate, in the lease of these properties, in the use of these properties for certain business purposes and even in the conclusion of insurance policies from new earthquakes. Therefore, these properties will be in a more favourable position and such an opportunity will not be able to obtain, for example, those properties built from bricks and which at this moment certainly do not have adequate security from new earthquakes which at any time in the city of Zagreb and in the areas in the rest of Croatia are threatening. This is what happens when the Government, as a legislator, does not know what to do and then the Croatian Parliament agrees as a legislative body. This law was supposed to be completely different.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4583	Mr. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, 115th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4584	So, this amendment as well as a lot of others I have submitted has actually proposed a profession because I have no reason not to believe them and I have no reason to doubt, in fact, that the intention was very good because it comes from the profession and that is why I stay on the amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4585	Okay, 116th Amendment, Agent Darko Klasic. He's gone. 117, Green-left bloc advocates' club, Ministers, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4586	The amendment, under regular number 117, does not accept the government for a reason because this sentence requires a level of designing the construction of buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4587	Look around, here you go, club green-left.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4588	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, paragraph 2. 18th and our amendment and your argument, in fact, all together, it shows that the government as a proponent and recklessly wrote the law and read our amendment with carelessness. This is where our one-day amendment in which we proposed to be in art. 3. introduce a definition of the reconstruction of the building which you failed to do even though you used this concept of reconstruction, reconstruction, forgiveness, reconstruction of the building, even though you did not describe it previously in Articles 16, 17. Now, however, after you refused to include it in the definition, in fact, of this Article 2. 18. You admit to a mistake and do exactly what we have proposed in the previous amendment. In this paragraph, which we propose to delete, you literally define what it means to rebuild the structure of the building, which is why we remain in this amendment and ask to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4589	Amendment 118 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4590	Amendment under regular No. 118 The government does not accept because in this provision they must remain words, if this law is not prescribed otherwise, and also because this law is special, for example. prescribes a different name and content of the reconstruction projects themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4591	SDP Advocacy Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4592	Thank you, Vice President. We stay on the amendment, it's necessary, so here's the deal. Not covered by the complete reconstruction of the building, not all basic building requirements are met, and cannot be called and applied to Article 1 of the same article. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. And we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4593	Now we have a series of identical amendments, 119, 120, 121, 122 and 123. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4594	Amendments under regular No. 119, 120, 121, 122 and 123, the government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4595	Accepts? Did you say "acceptance"? Minister, does he accept or?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4596	Amendments under regular No. 119, 120, 121, 122 and 123, the government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4597	Okay. They become part of the law. Amendment 124 of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4598	Amendment under regular No. 124 The government does not accept for reasons because the development of a project of complete renovation of buildings does not require the participation of restaurators who have a completely different task and purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4599	A review of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4600	So we don't accept an explanation, we're going to ask for an amendment to be put to the vote. We believe, in this proposed amendment, that it is necessary for all key participants to have a license from the competent ministry, and that, in order to restore cultural goods, it is necessary to include both here and the restaurators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4601	Thank you. Now we have a series of identical amendments, 125, 126, 127, 128 and 129. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4602	Amendments under regular No. 125, 126, 127, 128 and 129 governments accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4603	Okay. They become an integral part of the law. Amendment 130 Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4604	Amendment under regular No. 130 governments accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4605	It's becoming part of the law. 131 Advocacy Club of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4606	So, the amendment under the regular no. 131 the government does not accept because it is contrary to the basic objective of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4607	A review of SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4608	Thank you. What? Yeah. If the reconstruction is not a complete supervisory engineer, issue a final report considered to be a useful permit, although not all basic requirements for construction have been met, contrary to the Construction Act and to all technical regulations in the area of construction and spatial planning. That's why we stay on the amendment and ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4609	Thank you. Club 100, Amendment 132 of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4610	Amendment 103 below the regular No. The 132 government does not accept the public interest prescribed in the cases prescribed in Article 2(2). The 24th must remain in compliance with the regulation governing the inspection supervision of the construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4611	A review of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4612	We're staying at the amendment, we're looking for... specifically elaborate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4613	All right. Now we have a series of amendments to identical content, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4614	Amendments under regular No. 133, 134, 135, 136, 137 governments accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4615	They become an integral part of the law. 138 SDP MPs' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4616	Amendment under regular No. 138 governments accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4617	It's becoming an integral part. Amendment 139 Green-left bloc advocates' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4618	Amendment under regular No. The 139 government does not accept for reasons because they are rights under Article 1(1) of the Treaty. 27. related to the lack of other habitable house or apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4619	A review of the Club of Representatives of the Left-Green Block.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 5(3) provides that the owners of damaged apartments have the right to rebuild in such a way that the state and the city participate with 80% of the necessary funds, even if they are owners of other or other properties in the area affected by the earthquake. Not only that, but such owners who own more property in the area affected by the earthquake also have the right to rebuild these properties, although only with 50% of the state and city participation. On the contrary, in this article, in this article, which we have tabled amendments to the owners of family homes which are not damaged but destroyed if they possess other property are disqualified from the subsidy of the state and the city in the construction of the replacement house. We think that these two provisions are in absolute contrast with each other, we absolutely don't understand your explanation, we can't understand the logic with which you're staying with this original written item of this article. We stand by our amendment and pray that it be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4621	Okay. Now we have a series of amendments to identical content, 140, 141, 142 and 143, please welcome the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4622	Amendments under regular No. 140, 141, 142 and 143 governments do not accept them for a reason because we find them completely unnecessary because we believe that we are a member. The 29th century 2 is one-signed and very transparently defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4623	Amendment 140 Advocacy Club SDP review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4624	We stand by this amendment and demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4625	Okay. The club of the representatives of the Independent Journal 141.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4626	We are also staying on this because financial solutions should not literally be transferred to... all parts of each household but can and should be regulated by law project of the entire family house of size that existed before the earthquake. So, to simplify we ask that people have an opportunity and opportunity, of course according to the... way of funding to the square, but that they have the opportunity to live again in the way they lived before, and not to suppress into the squares that they have, most of them will be in this way unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4627	IP, Smart and Glass Club 142. Amendment review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4628	We're staying with the amendment, we're asking for an amendment to the vote. The explanation is more or less the same as we just heard it, pointed to by the professional and interested public, and once again, you announced one thing to the rulings, and through your indication of the amendments submitted, you showed something quite different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4629	163rd Amendment MP Domagoj Hajduković review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4630	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm also staying on the amendment and I'm going to ask for a vote because I think this kind of restriction would be bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4631	Again, we have a series of identical content with amendments 144, 145, 146, 147, and 148. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4632	The amendment under the regular number 144, 145, 146, 147 and 148 is not accepted by the government because the economic and auxiliary buildings next to the housing buildings are not subject to renewal of this law in view of financial opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4633	SDP reps' club review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4634	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is certainly not disputed that the owners of the replacement houses will need in the future the other economic and housing facilities they once had and will try to rebuild them by their own means or otherwise. Why should the Law on Reconstruction provide owners with complete projects with a building permit... excuse me, and build only a replacement house for a family house that can be financed by this law. So, in translation projects yes, but then rebuilding not, but only what is necessary for housing. That's why we stay on the amendment and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4635	The Alliance of Independent Lists Club 145th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4636	I agree with what is said here, so we need to be realistic at the moment of the adoption of this law and predict the needs of our citizens and meet this law. I would like to express my particular satisfaction with the fact that the opposition almost unisonally accepted the proposals of the profession, just as I would like once again to highlight the paradox that the Government itself prescribes in the law the expert advice that this same profession will do, and now itself, the proposals of the profession here and this negation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4637	You're staying at the vote request? ... 146th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the IP, Smart and Glass. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4638	We're staying with the amendment, we're asking for a vote on it. The explanation is the same as my two predecessors put it, it's really something we heard from what the waist tells us. I will add only one little detail, and in terms of financial frameworks and financial opportunities, it is paradoxically that the Government has called on this amendment to reject it for the reason that what we are proposing is not secured and there are no financial resources, and we do not know whether there are financial resources for the complete renewal that we are talking about here and the amounts with which it was bided without any concrete data and analysis but at the opening presentation of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4639	Domagoj Hajdukovic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4640	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I wouldn't repeat the argument that's identical to the argument I had on behalf of the club, and I'm staying on the amendment, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4641	Darko Klasic is a representative. He's gone. Again, we have a series of amendments to the identical content of 149, 150 and 151. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4642	The amendments under regular number 149, 150 and 151 are not accepted by the government because we consider them unnecessary since we consider ourselves to be a member. The 30th century 3rd was unambiguously determined and unequivocally included all actors who had authorized persons in the process of rebuilding the City of Zagreb and buildings destroyed by an earthquake in the neighbouring two counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4643	SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4644	Very briefly, we stay on the amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4645	It's an independent list bridge counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4646	It would also not be worse if there were no confusion to keep it this way on the trail of the amendments we have proposed and we ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4647	I.P., Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4648	We're staying with the amendment, we're asking for a vote on it. It would not be worse if, several times, by ruling a little more detail, they would explain their refusal to these amendments because it seems to me that the further we move away with this debate, the more unknown it is, the more doubt we are. It really raises the question of what is behind this law and how does the government think about bringing and prescribing the criteria to distribute and control the spending of financial resources in the reconstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4649	Amendment 152 MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4650	The amendment under regular number 152 is not accepted by the Government for a similar reason, so we find it completely unnecessary and we believe that we are a member. 30th century 4th, unambiguously and unequivocally, determine all that is the subject of art. 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4651	Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4652	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will take this opportunity because this is my last amendment just to say, here in my nine-year parliamentary career, this is the first law and the first amendments the government has accepted me. So we've got some shifts, come on that's something positive. However, in this amendment, I will have to stay with him and ask for a vote because I believe that only a full project covers all necessary works that will allow the owner of normal living conditions in the family home, so it is only a whole project that can make it possible, regardless of whether all works will be financed by the state or co-financed by the state, so I am asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4653	Okay. 153rd Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4654	Amendment No. 153 The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4655	It's becoming an integral part. 154th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4656	The amendment under regular number 154 is not accepted by the government because we consider it in full contrast with the basic objectives of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4657	SDP, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4658	Thank you. We remain on the amendment because we believe that we are seeking a vote because we believe that if the construction of a replacement facility is not complete, supervision and engineer issue a final report which is considered a useful permit, although not all basic requirements for construction have been met, contrary to the Construction Act and all technical regulations in the area of construction and spatial planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4659	Green-left bloc representatives' club 155th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4660	The amendment under regular number 155 does not accept the government's earlier decision on financial assistance for the eligible costs of the necessary protection of buildings has determined the sources and amounts of funds for these sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4661	Green-left block representatives' club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4662	As a result, the Government has determined the resources and has determined the total amount of aid, however, what the Government has not determined and what we are asking to determine by this law, which is how many buildings, or each owner, have the right to participate in the costs of repairs. So this article concerns the recovery, or these urgent emergency repair costs, we ask that the word help be replaced by the word co-financing, as it applies to the overall renewal, and we also ask that co-financing ratios be determined in the same way as for other types of renovations, which is 60-20. We have also suggested that the money aid already received for eligible costs be included in this amount of State co-financing, i.e. the city, depending on which source this initial aid was given. We believe that the criteria must be equal for all types of renovations, and it is particularly important that what they are now the most urgent work to be done by winter, so that people can move in, that people have to know how much they will have, how much help they will be entitled to, or how much co-financing. So we're staying on this amendment and we're asking to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4663	The 156th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4664	The amendment under regular number 156 is not accepted by the government because the financing of the purchase of condensation boilers is not the subject of this law, subject to a specific decision already being taken by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4665	Here's your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4666	Thank you very much, here's just a brief explanation, so here's the thing, so here's the content of the works or the rehabilitation of the damaged buildings listed in paragraph 1. It lists 5 types of work starting with the necessary, necessary temporary protection from the atmosphere to the sub-regular no. Five elevator repairs. All in the function of protecting people's health. We thought that a group of these necessary works should include condensation boilers or, moreover, replacing existing boilers, or moreover, the installation of alternative low-carbon heating models and renewable energy heating systems. We felt that it was necessary to include it here, especially in terms of improving the protection of the environment, and therefore we remain with this amendment, we ask that we make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4667	The 157th Amendment of the Independent List Bridges Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4668	The amendment under regular number 157 does not accept the government for a reason because the level of financial assistance within the meaning of this law cannot be linked to the gross or grossly developed area of real estate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4669	A bridge of independent lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4670	Of course we don't accept this explanation because it's not even an explanation to begin with, it's just that we can't and we're asking for the amendment to be put to the vote, and now I'm going to explain why. The proposed legislative solution does not make it clear how the subsidy will be assessed if co-owners do so themselves. What is crucial, not only in terms of the adoption of this law but also in life as such, is that we encourage our citizens that those who are as proactively as those who are most interested in their own real estate go into that renovation, and many of them have already done so, not knowing by what criteria and not knowing how much money they will be able to get for their work. That's why this amendment of ours is important. In fact, it is important that owners know in advance how much subsidy they can expect in case they do their own recovery. Those amounts should be given as soon as possible. In view of the type of buildings and houses and the level of damage, it is proposed to define the gross area in which the amount of subsidisation is to be made. This will speed up the reconstruction process and make citizens more satisfied because they will be able to choose designers, performers and perform better than will happen with some type projects or other ways that would require too much time if they did not go on that trail. These were positive experiences in restoring war-damaged houses. This stimulates positive and engaged people not to sit with their hands broken but to do it themselves as best. So this is a general question of how to finance or co-finance reconstruction when citizens, which is what we all need to ask them, take responsibility and things into their own hands. I don't think this law is well-defined, that this proposal is on track and what happened after the war was restored to damaged houses is better and we ask that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4671	158 amendments to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4672	Amendment under regular No. 158 The Government does not accept this because it is the same in a nomotechnically correct manner already arranged or prescribed by the provision of Article 15. 36.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4673	A review of the club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4674	So, in this amendment, we are also asking for money to be replaced by the word "co-financing" and for co-financing to be the same model 60:20:20 as we have already stated before because we believe that people working now on repairs, therefore their own property, have the right to know exactly what the share of co-financing of the state or city will be. We also asked in the debate that these funds can be paid retroactively to all those who are there, and the repairs have already begun and we believe that there is no reason for them to be excluded from this model that applies to all other types of renovations, and we remain on the amendment and we ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4675	Amendment 159 of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4676	Amendment under regular No. 159 The government does not accept for reasons because the project documentation and the supervisory engineer's report are technical documentation on the basis of which all decisions are practically implemented within the meaning of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4677	Here's the green-left block.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4678	Thank you very much. We're not naturally satisfied with the explanation. So this is about the same article of the law and this is about a position that actually protects public interest and public money. For example, in St. 3., it is simply about the mechanism when, therefore, the amount of financial assistance is granted to, therefore, after the completion of the reconstruction that the owner made himself. We, in our amendment, insisted that the money can be allocated by the government's decision only after supplying appropriate project documentation and a report by the supervisory engineer. We believe that without these documents, this provision is missing, we find it absolutely necessary, so the documents attached to the request for, let's say, a refund of money. Therefore, we remain on the amendment and ask that it be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4679	Okay. Amendment 160 Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4680	Amendment under regular No. 160 governments do not accept, we believe that it is unequivocally said already in Article. 37th said it was justifiable construction costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4681	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4682	Well, this is quite a simple intervention, and we thought it was necessary, however, to imply that it was a building to avoid staying unsaid about what these costs were. In that sense, we believe that our amendment is a contribution to the precision of the law, and we would still stay with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4683	You're giving up?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4684	The rest of you stay with him, the rest of you stay with him, and we ask him to vote on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4685	Are you asking for a vote? Okay. Amendment 161 Green-left bloc advocates' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4686	Amendment under regular No. The 161 government does not accept for a reason because this law does not provide for the establishment of a reconstruction agency but a reconstruction fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4687	Here's the green-left block.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4688	So, this amendment as well as the next amendment. 38a. we specified what the Institute for Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County should be as a unique institution. What we have predicted, unfortunately, is that the bill, or the proposal for a fund, has not been foreseen, and these are the basic functions that this institution should renew. Also, as in other articles, what was our intensity is that there is one institution that coordinates the overall reconstruction in which experts are employed and which is managed by the profession and which is in charge of the whole process from, from the development of measures, allocation of funds, control of spending, issue of recovery solutions, until the payment of co-financing funds to really have what the proposer was saying, and that is... So one place where citizens can turn, get all the information and run the whole reconstruction procedure. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that this would actually contribute to efficiency, but also to avoid these overlaps of institutions that we now have several envisaged laws, which we know how it usually ends, which is that it transfers responsibility from the institution to the institution and that in the end, the processes are actually being extended if they are ever finished. Let's stay on this amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4689	162. Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4690	Amendment under regular No. 162 similar to the section of the 161st amendment debate, the government does not accept for a simple reason because this law does not provide for the establishment of an institution, the establishment of a fund is envisaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4691	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4692	So, we have defined with this amendment exactly what the Institute is doing, so we have also stated that it is preparing a public procurement plan for implementing the programme of measures, carrying out public procurement for the need to implement the programme of measures, publishing the data referred to in Article 12. 5th of this law, it provides information on the implementation of public procurement and the implementation of measures to restore government, ministry and independent supervisory body, coordinates the production of project documentation, issues the necessary permits, organises and monitors the implementation of renovations, coordinates and manages the reconstruction of the historic core of the City of Zagreb because there is really no need to introduce another additional institution specific to the restoration of the historic core of the City of Zagreb. And also, what is very important to us, which is to coordinate the order and scope of reconstruction with other institutions that carry out complementary activities of reconstruction, which means, for example, that it is coordinated with the Environmental Protection Fund around energy recovery, that it is coordinated with cultural heritage institutions in order to actually have some complementary processes, for complementary processes, one institution that coordinates them. Unfortunately, this amendment is not, is not accepted, but we stay with it and ask to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4693	163rd Amendment of Representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4694	Amendment under regular No. The 163 government does not accept for a reason because the founders of the refurbishment fund in accordance with the special law of the contract regulate their relations with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4695	Stephen's gone. 164th Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4696	Amendment under regular No. The 164th government does not accept for reasons because this law does not provide for the establishment of an institution, but, for the restoration, but for the reconstruction of the foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4697	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4698	We're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4699	All right. 165. It's an amendment to the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4700	Amendment under regular number 165. The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4701	It's becoming an integral part. Amendment 166. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4702	Amendment under regular number 166. The Government does not accept, as paragraph 6 is also proposed to delete. In view of the public interest set out in this law, Article 39 cannot be delegated to a specific law governing the conduct of a construction inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4703	A review of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4704	We're not accepting this explanation. We're asking for the amendment to be put to the vote. I'll tell you exactly what it's about. So if the owner or co-owners of the building do not submit a request for a decision on renewal or do not agree with most co-owners, be careful now, whether the owner is unknown or unknown to the building is treated in accordance with the regulations governing the inspection supervision of the building. We have proposed this erasure because there is no need and necessity to carry out the punishment or inspection procedure against citizens in case they do not initiate the renewal procedure. Private property under our Constitution Article 3 is inalienable and no one can force the owner to rebuild if he does not want to. There are also a number of owners who live outside the Republic of Croatia, who are unknown and cannot be reached by the same owners, which is why they cannot be punished. So, what does that mean exactly is that they will be treated according to inspection supervision. If, for example, decide to rebuild that property, and the owner is gone, it cannot be reached whether he who has not agreed to do something with his property must also participate 20% or one day will come and will find an empty ground where his property used to be. We believe that this is how a serious violation of the right of private ownership is committed and that the state must not treat its citizens in such a way. We had a similar problem when we talked about multiple buildings and whether it could be mortgaged on the building as a whole, so the government fixed it in this second reading. We believe that there is a similar clue to the vulnerability of private property here and that the state must not treat its citizens so Stephically. So citizens must be aware that the state will take matters into its own hands, not only if they refuse, but if it can't even reach them, as in the beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4705	167. Amendment to the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4706	Amendment under regular number 167. The government does not accept for reasons because this law does not provide for the establishment of a reconstruction agency but for the reconstruction fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4707	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4708	So, thank you. In this amendment, it is only part of a set of amendments which establish an institutional framework for the implementation of this law and avoids different institutions participating in different parts of the renewal process and for which reason we have provided that the Institute also performs the functions set out in Article 39. We're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4709	Amendment 168. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4710	Amendment under regular number 168. The government does not accept this because it is the same in a nomotechnically correct way but prescribed by Article 40(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4711	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4712	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, it is evident that the Government as a Proposer has a problem with definitions, and we have a problem with your arguments. It was due to wait for the 40th article of this law to introduce a new concept of renewal. The word renewal without any attributes forward although we have already found that the termology here is subtle and that it is a very important word of renewal is mentioned here for the first time in the legal text. How much to read this refurbishment is actually a common name for everything prescribed by the technical regulation, so for the 4 levels of reconstruction of the building and 3 levels of reconstruction of the building plus repair of non-creation elements, where the renovation here obviously or at least for us obviously includes a complete renovation of the building. We tried to write all of that down to help you. So in our amendment, we tried to write, specify and make this article or item readable, accurate and clear. Now that you didn't want to accept it, we're going to try again, and we're going to stay with that amendment, and we're asking to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4713	Amendment 169. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4714	Amendment under regular number 169. The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4715	It's becoming an integral part. Amendment 170. The Spatial Editing Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4716	Amendment under regular number 170. The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4717	It's becoming an integral part. Amendment 171. Pedja Grbin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4718	Amendment under order number 171. The government does not accept this because the proposed amendment generally states that this law will prescribe the suspension of the increase in protected rents prescribed by the House Rental Act and will give permanent rentals of replacement apartments to protected tenants. It is not justified that this law prescribes the housing of persons with the status of a protected tenant if the buildings in which the same residence is so damaged that they do not have a possible residence. All other situations are for all citizens the same, and the rights of protected tenants are prescribed by a special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4719	A review of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, not in general, but it is very specific what should be done to protect protected tenants because they are definitely not protected at the moment. And as for the rights in the special law, the House Rental Act probably knows that at the end of last year, the Government adopted a report on the implementation of compensation measures for protected tenants, and if you know that you have read this report, so if you read it, you know that only two apartments of local self-government units are offered in Croatia for the reception of protected tenants, none of whom are in the City of Zagreb. Well, when you know that, then it would be a turn, if at least for those protected tenants living in earthquake-damaged apartments, we could provide some sort of permanent solution, which we could use by this law. But, as I said, you are not going to do so clearly, so all hope remains in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which, soon, I hope, will adopt a request for an assessment of constitutionality, and then you will have to amend the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4721	Amendment 172. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4722	Amendment under regular No. 172 The government does not accept it because we find the same in practice simply unimplementable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4723	A representative of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4724	Dear Minister, I think it was incorrect of the legislator that he didn't define things here, and this is actually about defining what the citizens are going to get for what they're giving. I think it was quite correct that the law defined that the replacement, which means the replacement property, where this property should be roughly located and what value it should be to go to the extreme. Someone will leave land to the government in Pantovchak, and get a replacement property somewhere on the city's periphery, this is how it falls out of your law. I think that should have been better defined. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4725	Are you asking for a vote? Amendment 173 to the representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4726	Amendment under regular No. 173 The government does not accept, and the explanation is the exact same as the reasons for Amendment 171.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4727	Here's a representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4728	From an explanation identical to what I gave for Amendment 171 I request a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4729	Amendment 174 to the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4730	Amendment under regular No. 174 The government does not accept it because we consider it practically impertinent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4731	SDP, review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4732	We're staying on the amendment, we're asking for a vote. The explanation is the same as the amendment before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4733	Just one detail. Since it's 1 o'clock now, we should go with the statement of view. Do you agree to end the amendments another 10, 12 amendments? We agree with that? Thank you. 175 amendments to the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4734	Amendment under regular No. 175 The government does not accept it because we consider it practically impertinent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4735	Here you go, SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4736	We're staying on the amendment, we're looking for a vote, but I'm curious as to why you consider it inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4737	Representatives' Club, and I'm sorry, Amendment 176. IP, Smart and Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4738	Amendment under regular No. 177 The government does not accept because the decision on temporary accommodation of persons affected by the earthquake is necessary and important for the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4739	The review, the IP club, Smart and Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4740	We're staying with the amendment, we're asking for a vote on it. The above article allows for the emergency construction of temporary accommodation buildings, and the intensity and importance of this law must be that as soon as possible refurbishment of real estate and buildings and that they can return to them, not that some new buildings will be built in which those citizens whose properties are permanently forgotten are destroyed in the earthquake are permanently forgotten. We do not want to repeat the fate of those who are so temporarily finished in the barracks that they remain permanently in them, and it seems to me that the construction of some new property will be faster and more efficient than repairing and rebuilding the old one, which only further points to the fact that when you talk about the restoration, you don't really have a clear plan at this moment, and you have no idea how this restoration will be implemented at all, so you think that building some new real estate will be faster and easier and easier. All together, one big mistake. We're asking for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4741	Amendment 178 of the IP, Smart and Voice Representatives Club. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4742	Amendment under regular No. 178 The government does not accept for reasons because it is necessary to leave the government with a decision to determine other ways of temporary accommodation of earthquake-affected persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4743	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4744	We're also asking to vote on that amendment. What we were referring to in the first and second reading is that the government has embarked on preparing and developing this law, and before that it has not done a thorough analysis of the data collection of which the number of real estate and affected citizens are actually being done, so then this provision that you have included in the draft law is actually only one open possibility that the Government will later, that is, if it finds who it should be, come up with a new model. Again, it is not known who will be the users, whether those who are really affected or some privileged groups who, by some new model and some new government decision, will continue to be privileged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4745	Amendment 179 Advocacy Club of IP, Smart and Glass.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4746	Amendment under regular No. 179 The government does not accept for reasons because the intensity of this law is to ensure replacement accommodation, including state bodies, only in case the buildings in which they are located are damaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4747	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4748	We're staying with the amendment, and we're asking for that amendment to be voted on. In fact, if the state authorities want to enable the use of new business spaces and buildings, the minimum standard would be to know what the government is going to do, and so the city intends to do with the existing ones. And here we come again that this earthquake should have been an opportunity to consider whether everything about public and administrative buildings remains where there was before the earthquake, or we will use this earthquake as an opportunity to move individual state bodies, some ministries from those properties where they were previously located, to give them one new location, new spaces, new properties, modernly equipped with all the accompanying facilities that we have the opportunity to see in other decent and well-organised societies. If everything remains as it is now, it will really only come to the healing and mummification of what we have and without earthquakes long ago should be organised more efficiently, rationally, cheaper for citizens, and better for quality public service and public service. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4749	Amendment 180. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4750	Amendment under regular number 180. The government does not accept because the proposed amendment is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4751	A review of the bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4752	So, we have proposed this amendment in order to actually find some framework within this law that we must be political realists know that it will be passed, which we would actually propose what almost all the members of the opposition propose, which is some form of control over the implementation of these measures that will be taken and everything that will happen in order to address the consequences of the earthquake. We have here proposed a special commission that would supervise the implementation of this law and would be composed of experts in the field of protection and preservation of cultural heritage, urbanists and lawyers, of course, with the aim of transparent supervision. In this way, it would avoid law enforcement being supervised only by the ministry which was also the legislator. As I said earlier in a previous law that applied in principle to natural disasters, there was this beautiful obviously utopian idea that there was a state commission that controls all works, which consists of half of them coming from the ranks of parliamentary deputies. As soon as the first earthquake occurred, as soon as some of them may have grown teeth, that provision was skipped and all the measures were left to the program, and the assembly was authorized by its powers of control. This does not necessarily have to be a parliament, it could be experts independent, any other bodies that do not only have an advisory function but that will indeed be responsible for the transparent spending processes. Since we are nearing the end, I would conclude this by making a big contribution and working seriously on this bill, this is also seen by the number of amendments that have been tabled. I don't think the opposition demands were difficult to understand, nor to respect, they mainly concern some of the social criteria and the transparency of spending money. But only cosmetic changes have been accepted here, and those fundamental essential requirements have been skipped and this public sea I know. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4753	Amendment 181. I.P., Smart and Voice Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4754	Amendment under regular number 181. The government does not accept because the reduction of deadlines from transitional and final provisions from 13 to 15 and 15 to 8 days are simply not appropriate, and in our court they are not feasible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4755	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4756	We're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it. So wasn't it precisely the rulings at the time of the announcement of this law to convince the public of the transparency of their actions that they would be able to control and that, in accordance with the technologies available today, you would be able to exercise control in some real time? The reduction of these deadlines would indeed not be difficult in practice but the fact that the ruling does not have the will to accept this amendment only adds to the fact that your words are a transparently truly abstract concept that you cannot control in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4757	Amendment 182. I.P., Smart and Voice Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4758	Amendment under order number 182. The government does not accept it because the reduction of the time limit for the adoption of the regulation from 30 to 15 days is considered inappropriate and inaccessible with a very clear message and the conclusion of all of this that we have discussed today. If all those who have submitted amendments in this way were to have a reference to amendments and a desire for public debate, then amendments such as 181 and 182 would never have been submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4759	A review of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4760	We're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it. In line with the intention of this law, the faster the start of reconstruction after the earthquake, the faster the implementation of the recovery after the earthquake also requires that the deadlines for the government’s conduct and all other competent authorities be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4761	Okay. Amendment 183. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4762	Amendment under regular number 183. The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-10-0.u4763	It's getting complicated. We've exhausted all the amendments with this. Thank you, Minister.
