ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u9694	- Mrs. Crescent. Andreja Maric will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u9695	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, or Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. And today I'm going to talk about health care, about the need to finally be more orderly and accessible to all our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. I've worked in the Croatian health system for over 20 years. I know his strengths and flaws very well. The benefits are valuable health and health care professionals who, with their knowledge, expertise, skills stand by a number of experts around the world. Especially a heavy burden on their backs at this time of the pandemic when they give maximum energy and sacrifice to patients but our government obviously does not appreciate it enough because it did not foresee a salary supplement for those who work hard in COVID departments and intensive treatment units by risking their health as well. He's negotiating with the unions, whether there will be a delay in the previously agreed additions to the collective agreement. Mane and trouble, there's a bunch of 'em. Especially in this pandemic. They haven't been created since yesterday, and they're not created by the current resolution minister, but they don't get rid of them. And there's no time to wait. We keep saying that health care is a supersede issue and that consensus is needed. This was agreed by Ministers Beros and Maric at a recent extraordinary session, i.e. the thematic session of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, which was convened by the lists of six opposition committee members. We have articulated problems, offered assistance and solutions, the debate was really good, but everything the opposition proposes seems to be not accepted, not even recommendations and conclusions of that debate. There's no health reform recovery program, we haven't seen a plan to settle the accumulated debt in health care, a plan to pay off the debt to the wholesalers. The health institutions' limits are uneven, the state delivers money to hospitals according to some of its criteria while the founders of general and county hospitals invest but also staff their own criteria. The national anti-cancer strategy is not yet in the parliamentary procedure. There are numerous organisational and personnel problems. I'll remind you that at the Employment Office, over 1200 healthcare professionals are waiting for a traineeship. That's what I was talking about at a recent actuator, asking Minister Beroš to urgently hire them and hire them in the health care system and take them in for a start-up interview. That conversation should be held today, let's at least do something, and hopefully it won't just stop for a chat. Imagine how much it would mean for a hospital like mine in Čakovec or in neighboring Varazdin, and help our tired employees to get young trainees who will also allow them to obtain the conditions for passing a professional exam and obtaining a license. Furthermore, we have a wide range of available medicines on the list, modern diagnostic devices in a number of health institutions but still do not have systematic monitoring of treatment outcomes especially expensive medicines and now we are witnessing that more and more patients in different hospitals indicate and complain that they cannot get the necessary oncology medicines, hepatitis therapy, there are antibiotics, corticosteroids, respirators, etc. Who's to blame? When are we gonna figure this out? In certain environments, patients, for example in Slavonia, in Djakov as they called us a few days ago, do not have a weekend-on-the-spot medical clinic, general medicine. Where is there a network of available health institutions and services? Short on national headquarters. For some time, unfortunately, there has been no complete trust in citizens or professions, because it has been a virtue with recommendations, and it is not possible for them to deprive themselves of the political omen and cannot present their work and decisions on the parent board and in the Assembly, so that we have valid legitimacy, and what we have suggested on several occasions. Are we prepared to welcome the second wave of pandemic? Unfortunately, we didn't. The healthcare system is short-listed, pre-collapsed. That's what a number of healthcare professionals tell you. As an opposition, we will not give up, we will persist in detecting problems and seeking and offering adequate and meaningful solutions in order to find a way out of the existing poor health situation as soon as possible to the common forces. I stress, we need a consensus. Health care is an over-the-counter issue. We hope that the ruling will finally listen to us and accept our help because time for waiting and outwitting really does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u9696	Thank you, too. Okay. This, Mr. William Matula, will be the position of the club of representatives, the mask, the mask you forgot, Mr. Mlinarić, Mr. Mlinarić, you forgot the mask. Mr. William Matula will be the position of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u9778	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. I will use this speech to warn about the systematic harassment suffered by people from NGOs dealing with the protection of human rights and the defense of refugees, migrants, asylum seekers. So, international protection, these are people who ask the Republic of Croatia for international protection. One very prominent such NGO is the Arius Sirius organization which has become known to other organizations such as the Centre for Peace Studies and that I do not list everything, but this prominent organization, if you remember, has unfortunately become known in that tragedy of the death of the little Madina Husiny, and on that occasion Minister Bozinović has just begun to question Arius Sirius in various ways to perform he and the MUP pressures to come up with now an employee of an NGO whose partner who was an asylum seeker has received that asylum, 2.5 years of integration here, the language has been integrated I say they are partners, he is the man who worked here who really integrated and could spread a voice about the Croatian state as a country that really helps and provides international protection. However, after that, suddenly because of all the pressures that otherwise take place apparently on the Arius Sirius organization in late 19th, he was invited to an official conversation where he was treated very roughly in Petrinj, seeking information about a man he knew while still in, at a shelter for asylum seekers in Porin. After that, he was deprived of his residence permit without any explanation and imagine that he was then deprived of his right to stay, deprived of his right to protect international, asylum and requested that he leave the Republic of Croatia. There's no explanation because SOA doesn't give any explanation, and you can't defend yourself at all even though the Constitutional Court has made it very clear that people in legal protection have to know what's been said like this SOA 2.5 years before it gave him all the rights and said he's not at all dangerous in any way. And we can't have that in a relationship, but precisely because of the employee of our employee in that I say to a respected civil society about it, Frontal, the Front Line Defender portal is more internationally written, which is why we already have pressures from the European Commission telling us that this is not the way to treat migrants. However, it is obvious that the Croatian state on the one hand wants to be around this government and by the Prime Minister as very European we do not want to act like the introductions of Orban and Hungary, but because when there are no lights in the dark to harass migrants, asylum seekers and send them a message precisely through this man and through this couple that we do not give the opportunity, be careful that it is a couple who live together for 2.5 years, 2 years together, 2.5 years together, I guess how total they are together, and they send messages to everyone else you do not come, do not seek protection from the Republic. What kind of republic is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u9779	Thank you, thank you very much. Let's move on, Ms. Marijana Puljak will be the position of the IP, Smart and Glass Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u9838	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today I will warn you of a local problem from this pay phone. Since tomorrow in Split, or Vranjica, one protest is being held that speaks of the next. So Split port is preparing for the construction of an oil terminal for the reception of tankers and the transport of oil by rail and trucks to the interior of Split's northern port. So it's a strategic project and it's a terminal with 4 tanks of a total capacity of 50,000 m3 fuel, so it's in Split's northern port. I don't know if you know what it looks like, where Vranjic is, what the Bay of Kaštelan looks like, they've closed one bay and the Vranjics are so with their peninsula in the middle of that bay. By using the terminal for several years or in case of an accident, there is the possibility of environmental pollution and endangering the health of people in the area, and because of my location as I said whether the Bay of Kastelan was closed any pollution would be felt by the inhabitants of Split, Vranjica, Solina and Kaštel, that is, the entire Gulf of Kaštelan. For many years, crows have fought the battle against environmental threats from neighbouring ports, such as the landing of scattered cargo, oil leaks, sandboats in the open air without protection, the grinding of plastic ships, the burning of waste, the overload of oil and coal in the open at the northern port, the sea is polluted, the sea is filled with waste, a large number of inhabitants are struggling with asbestos. Environmental incidents have become a daily routine, a rioting government in the area of the northern port itself and the plants that operate there. So there's the former Vranjic Shipyard, the former Salonite. In the remont shipyard, it often happens and waste is often burned, so smoke is seen from the remont shipyard, firefighters come to the citizens' applications even happens not to let them into that remont shipyard and when they are released as recently happened, they have what they see, so it's on fire, they tell them they simply don't have the money to get rid of that waste in an appropriate way, so they're going to light it up a little bit, nothing's going to happen. If we add to this whole situation the announced traffic to flammable liquids in the northern port, at certain times there may be an outbreak of fires, explosions, thus jeopardising both health and human and animal health, nature, material goods, so there cannot be a significant negative impact on the environment and people in the area of a total of 4 towns of Split-Dalmatia County. On the other hand, in Kaštel, there is already a location of the fuel tank owned by the MRLs, so it is maintained by the MRLs, the location has existing approaches and lines, underground installations, underground tanks, so there is already one such location that will justify this study, a double risk of oil spilling in view of the existing and planned location. The Bay of Kaštelan in this part, as I said, is quite closed, the truth is that the slow current of the sea and maybe someone will talk, and when there is an incident, it will easily be resolved, but the recovery of marine life, the resolution of the waste is actually a long-term process on which the Kaštelani are waiting, I would say here for 20, 30 years, struggle with living in an ecologically clean environment and here every little project appears that makes it impossible for them to live. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u9839	Thank you, too. Finally, Mr Goran Ivanovic will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u9941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs, when someone becomes a legend for their lives, then it's the most that a man can possibly become in his life. Krunoslav Kico Lošinac gained the status of legend especially us Slavs, Baranjac and Srijemac whose song he performed throughout not only our Republic but also abroad. Today in 76, Krunoslav Kico Losinac died a man whom I personally knew, much with him and as an author worked, was also a representative in the Croatian Parliament, so here I want on behalf of all the tambourians, all the cultural artistic societies, singing groups who in any way collaborated with this great man to say one great thank you for what he did for our end, what he did for our country of Croatia, and that we will always be able to say with piety but of course and with great pride that he was one of us. Therefore, let him be an easy Croatian and Slavonic lump, and it is our duty to always remember him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u10008	And we move on to the last item of the agenda. In fact, to make a point on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first in front of the Homeland Movement is Mr. Stipo Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u10009	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1990 in Zagreb for the Eurovision Song Competition won the song Toto Cutugno – Insieme, a united Europe together. World media comments were totalitarian Communism is in the fundamental phase of decay. Europe unites, a time of long peace and prosperity arises. After a year of BBC commentators, ARD, CNN, when they commented on the entry of Serbian troops who sang Free Send us salads, there will be meat, we will slaughter Croats. They said it was the worst and that the world could allow these crimes. The same Serb troops killed journalist, our colleague Bojan's father, Sinisa Glavasevic, but also a colleague of Sinisa Glavasevic, Branko Paulino, who was otherwise Serbian people. Yeah, Vukovar was a shock to the whole world, but not to the DORH. But not for the HDZ coalition partner, the leading people of the SDSS who asked the other day in Negoslavci not to investigate the crimes committed in Vukovar. I'm asking the DORH question, who are these people who sing that morbid song on their way into Vukovar? Did they identify them using Shakespeare's dictionary? Did they arrest them and transfer them? Or is it to identify, arrest and transfer reserved for Croatian patriots only? Ladies and gentlemen, 2,717 brothers and sisters, husbands, husbands, Croatian daughters and sons were killed in Vukovar. 86 children were killed in Vukovar. One man was.../incomprehensible/... one boy was a valuable handiwork and a day before he was taken to Ovchara sitting with his mother in the basement he carved a small dolphin. His mother, who lives in Rijeka today, identified him from that dolphin years later. I'm going to paraphrase Franjo Tudjman and his speech on June 8, 1997 in Vukovar. In Vukovar, Croatia was built for eternity. Tudjman also said at the rally, a winner who can't forgive, sows the germs of a new conflict. I'll add today, a criminal who doesn't know how to repent calls for new conflicts. As long as we don't experience a scene experienced by the Poles by German Chancellor Brandt, who in 1972 on the protocol bed of his newlyweds in Warsaw unpredictably kneeled and bowed down. As long as the Serbian side denies crimes in Vukovar, Shkabrnja or Srebrenica, it is impossible to obtain the conditions of sincere reconciliation. 18. I go to Vukovar because I am a Vukovar, for there are the bones of my comrades. I'm going back with bitterness in my chest and stomach because I know justice isn't served. I'm going with chest pain, because I'm going to watch some politicians hypocritically pay their respects there again, and they're insulting both the victims and the city and the Croatian people. I'm going to pain, I'm going to pain. It gets harder and harder every year. But I'm going because I have to and I don't know how far. Dear Chairman, I thought I'd ask you for a minute of silence for Vukovar and Skabrnje, but I won't, because this is embarrassing that there are 15 people in the assembly of 151 MPs. We didn't deserve to give.../incomprehensible/... give a minute of silence to those people in '91. Mr. for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u10010	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Bulj will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u10063	Thank you very much. I will now talk about what is before us, which is the budget next week we are discussing and these are the issues most important at this moment for our citizens, although these budgets are unreal, unreal, and I will talk about Dalmatia forgotten, about a meeting in Split of the Croatian Government, meetings of the Croatian Government where projects of 2 billion, decisions on projects of 2 billion kuna, can count them. It's a transport infrastructure, from a Vrgorjek tunnel.../incomprehensible/... Drvenik to the fast road Zagvozd-Imotski, a fast road connection between Sinja-Drniš, here is Mayor Knina, all of these projects are essentially at zero by now. I know that the pre-election time will go again, but I do not understand why the Croatian government treats Dalmatia as if it is not part of Croatian territory. Not a single significant project. 5 billion kuna in 2020 boasts Oleg Butkovic, 5 billion kuna in transport infrastructure, mostly around his municipality, he is a village bećar I am glad that he loves his cities and municipalities, the rest of Croatia zero, nothing. In particular, my Dalmatia, zero, plus that we have only harmful projects like Krš-Padjane, such as the attempt of harmful projects of the Perici thermal power plant, on a clean drinking lake located on the river Cetina, where we have a problem of non-resolving waste management because at this point the Vrgoračka dump is closed, threatens Sinjskoga, and the center for, the regional waste center is not even started, and 30 million kunas have been invested on, in Lečevica, I repeat this harmful project because it should be managed differently by waste. Today in Dalmatia, and mainly in Dalmatia, and in all of Dalmatia, it depends essentially on concessions and power. I am not going to comment on this ruling today, I told Sanader about 2007 when I was well-explored by those Sanaders who don't know him now, bags and the like, but I am going to talk about that the only thing that is good and successful in Dalmatia is the concession on the beaches, and that's why we have most of the county congregations, Kerum HDZ, it's the redwashing of the Croatian, people's good that it's amazing and that's how my Dalmatia works. Dalmatia gives a lot of Croatia, a lot, nothing returns to it. We won't just talk about tourism, I'll talk about energy now, 40% of the hydroenergy gives the river Cetina RH, absolutely nothing, zero, zero river would the prime minister, nothing. But they come neatly to Sinjska Alka and I'm glad, on Vrhorak days of prosciutto, to the brazijski prosciutto, my colleague Begonja I know that it's hard for you to come and you don't know how to greet me but I don't care, I come for the people there, just to see people to talk about their problems. The only thing that mess up the tables neatly is the only neat thing they make. And therefore, in the budgets that are always 5n unrealistic, unreal, not ecological, there are always budgets that are promising, but I once again warn Dalmatia is part of Croatia, this government has forgotten Dalmatia, the Dalmatian Zagora, and, of course, Lika. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14178	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you very much, thank you. Before we move to today's agenda item on the debate, I would like to inform you that when we have finished the debate by the clubs, with the debate of this point to the end, we will actually move on to the presentation of the position of the club representatives. So when we're done with that point this free speech is that club, the club stand. So today's item on the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 42 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure have also been established and accepted that the proposal from the applicant for this law is being discussed by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Stjepan Curaj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14179	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs and representatives, before us as well as the chairman, the amendments and additions to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Insurance Act have been laid down, otherwise only in the introduction of the Insurance Act, the conditions for the establishment, operation and termination of the Insurance Society, the Reinsurance Society and the mutual insurance companies have been laid down. So, practically this law regulates the insurance market in the Republic of Croatia. This proposal actually transposes the EU directive and harmonizes with the EU acquis. What is most important is the application and modification of the provision relating to volatility adjustment to non-risk interest rates, so the change of existing 100 base points to 85, I will explain to you a little later, also the obligation to inform the European Insurance Supervisor and Occupational Pensions Supervisory Authority as a supervisory mechanism which actually refers to all, the notification of any use or change requirements within the risk assessment model as well as the powers of the said body or the shortened EIOPA to provide technical support to the internal models. Furthermore, we also introduce an obligation to inform EIOPA and the supervisory authority of the host Member State concerned, with us being the HANFA supervisory authority and regulatory in the issuing of the company’s work authorisation, on the insurance of these companies, on reassurance and on whose part of the activity is based on the freedom to provide services or freedom of business established in another Member State and the last amendment is, in fact, the possibility of setting up a cooperation platform which should contribute to the quality of information that the host Member State’s competent authority has in the areas of that Member State of providing services. These amendments and directives came into force in January of this year, and in the final proposal, we are on an urgent procedure in view of the scope of the amendment itself, as well as the obligation to forward this as soon as possible to legislation, given the crisis that has been and the disbanding of the assembly, this is the right way to make it possible for our insurance companies and these proposed changes. So, as far as the most important changes here continue as we had in the past few weeks and years after the financial crisis since 2008, there has been an increase in actual regulation in order to ensure that not only Croatian citizens but also EU citizens are more secure in the area of the financial market in order to avoid those financial crises as well as here, we enable and insurance companies of course and through previous changes we have done and transposed them first and foremost refers to the Solvency II framework, but we want to enable these insurance companies to increase and liquidity in fact through the reduction of these base points directly related to technical reserves. You have a non-risk interest rate as a rate estimated at non-risk investments that are most often government bonds actually and it determines us, the value of future assets or consumption is now estimated against the value of the current one. And to that, in fact, alone, what's called the offering counts as that non-risk interest rate plus the risk premium. These base points are directly applied to technical reserves that are for non-life insurance, for life insurance we have mathematical reserves. The amount of technical provisions goes up to 80%, or I think last year there was over 67% of the total assets of insurance companies, and that actually says how much they must have secured funds for their business, for their further investments, for their placements, for all the premiums they charge. By reducing this base base base and applying these actuarial calculations, we are actually enabling the situation to affect the time range and the risk-free interest rate itself that when other risks are present such as this Covid crisis that by reducing this base base, it actually enables greater liquidity and more resources to remain insurance companies for investment that are, of course, not only in government bonds where we have it over 2/3, but there are investments in real estate, investment in other investments, etc. which would actually make one additional injection into the economy itself. So, it's actually the most important change where it counts that time-absect depending on what the non-risk rate itself is, the smaller the reserves themselves are bigger and thus we influence alone, on the placement or the possibility of using the funds themselves in those reserves. What I would also point out is that at present in the Republic of Croatia no society is using this adjustment, but so far, but with this and that introduction of this notion of volatility, therefore, given the circumstances, we may think that even after the adoption of this law here, it will also be possible to take into account the market that it is. I thank you for your attention and remain open to all possible questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14180	Thank you very much. You have as much as I can see two replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14181	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, here is the only thing we do constantly, here we are talking about directives, regulations allegedly strengthening in this case insurance companies, calling for a European acquis, and constantly doing so, although I would have triangulated the Croatian Parliament to run a lot of things, not just to adopt regulations and directives that are not respected, for example, and you know that you were also a parliamentary representative of the RBA Law savings on credit cooperatives that we brought here about the nullity of credits of these illegals with international features and you voted for that law. You, as executive authority, don't respect that law. People who, in RBA, have been spared credit co-operatives, literally touched by those who have launched behind the law, also the trials of the court are losing them, they are being executed. Now they're being kicked out of the house. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Why is the executive power of the laws of the assembly not respected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14182	Mr. Cure the Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14183	Thank you. So the question is not about this topic, what I can do, which I can point out that respect for the law regarding the executive is unquestionable because the executive authority has no influence on the judicial authority in which the cases are currently in force. We have a contrary opinion from the European Court of Justice regarding this law, so this is not even in the jurisdiction of the executive authority regarding all proceedings before the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14184	Mr. Bull was looking for a break, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14185	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute Most Club. The bill we are talking about, the amendment and the supplement on insurance essentially when the assembly discusses and brings, when you pray that the Croatian Parliament supports it, then I ask you to protect yourself above all, to be a law in the interests of man, individual of course and institutions in which we bring or to societies. We bring here the laws of colleagues and colleagues, such as this, we prescribe regulations and directives every day can prescribe whoever, you can have, every man only prescribes a triba translation. However, the laws we bring here unanimously, such as the lex scybol law, have been passed unanimously in this assembly with greater support than the Constitution has been passed, it is not respected. Our citizens who refer to this law on these criminal organisations that have robbed our citizens where it is impossible to repay the credit of that institution today are, for the sake of these institutions, even though the secretary was also a parliamentary representative who raised his hand for the law, to protect those of our people who raised those loans illegally. You've been illegally working those institutions. There is an appointment of the CNB, executive power, Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Parliament has passed a unanimous law, lex Škibol, unanimously, and then what are we now discussing. We are now discussing the insurance of new agencies, new supervisions, new security measures, liquidity of insurance companies, the EU acquis, but this assembly has passed a unanimous law, and this month is now threatening the actions of those people who have deceived these savings credit cooperatives, who cannot act in Austria from where they come from, cannot act in Hungary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14186	Thank you very much. Stand by 9 and 48 minutes, 5 minutes. [[It's 9:00.43.]] [[CONTINUATION OF THE MEETING AT 9:47 A.M.]] Mr. Lalovac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. You said that most of the changes relate to the reduction of this one risky interest rate, or that it participates in the basis for the calculation of the technical reserve, and on the other hand you said that no Croatian society uses it. Now I'm interested because this directive is related to it, is then our insurance companies in the future obliged to apply in their model calculations this non-risk interest rate that will one day affect them or is it actually an option that they may or may not have, I'm quite interested in that? Since you said it yourself will reduce part of the technical story, that means that our insurance houses actually have other models in the calculation, that means other words whether they are bound to apply it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14189	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14190	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor. Yeah, so society doesn't benefit here we're talking about adjusting for volatility, they use non-risk interest rates in calculating their assets by assessing the future value based on the current of course plus increasing the risk premium for yields themselves. However, this additional mechanism relating not only to risk-based interest rates or to the time structure of the same system but also to the base to which it applies. They shall, if applied, show the market situation that, in addition to those of the main risks that arise, some external other risks that can be applied by freeing up more funds that they can intervene with on the market of financial or real estate or any investment that they have.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14191	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Miro Bulj in front of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14192	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected secretary of state with an associate. Social insurance is very important and it must play its part and its importance, however, our Parliament does not respect all the laws that it makes, and so on this point, the European Commission does not respect, in essence, that we only prescribe what they send. I have cited here an example of the savings of the RBA credit cooperatives that have done great damage to our citizens and we have passed a unanimous law here in the past, and it seems to me to me that 138 MPs for between them were parliamentary representatives and now the secretary of state and it is not respected. So today we simply what we as HS are able to adopt as the obligation of this directive, and what HS brings unanimously to the EU, its institutions find ways to reject it. I asked the secretary of state earlier to say why what HS brings unanimously, even if it is not unanimous, which is in the protection of the individual Croatian man, but it is the interest of HS, why the European institutions reject it. I can't get an answer. We're a legislative body. If these people have been protected by the law that has raised these harmful loans because these cooperatives from Austria are banned from where they come from, they are being chased by their state's attorneys, in Hungary they are simply stuck in the tour, and our citizens are still being executed and kicked out of their properties, literally daily they call me and I will now give the law again in the procedure with certain changes. I hope that colleagues and colleagues will sign it and that we will accept it together, you can take it freely as your law, but most of all, as a representative whose people were disappointed that we simply reject what we bring to Europe's institutions. This law does not bring anything into being new, some control bodies, the security of insurance houses, we will discuss it by 10.00 today we will be finished 10.30, 11.00 and that is, however, what we will do with the people we do because of what this HS has brought not to be thrown out of the real estate. This morning, here I was just before this session called by a man who was ordered to be evicted in the first month from the only real estate, contrary to the law we passed in the House. And it is not the only one, but that and the only violation of the law on the Croatian citizen, is also a Croatian defender, but irrelevantly, is a Croatian citizen and we must protect the legality of decisions in this House, you executive authority and the judiciary. And that's why we have 3 billion euros today from our evicts to third countries, they pay us, we spend them, and they pay us, we don't even let them vote. That is why I call once again on you, distinguished secretary of state, that you, as executive authority, your Government in the EU Commission, in the EU Council, have our representatives because here the prime minister often boasts, Plenkovic, how much influence he has within the EU and friendship, to respect these laws that are passed by HS. Like the Lex Scibol law, so-called. on the integrity of loans which are illegal, with international features, which have been unlawfully introduced into the Republic of Croatia. The CNB has scheduled this, as well as the euro, and I ask you to transfer this to the prime minister because of these citizens who will soon be evicted. I call upon my colleagues and colleagues to make sure that you, especially those of the majority, urinate in executive power, you raise their hands, you support them, that the laws that were passed in this Croatian House are respected, and they are not respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14193	Mr. Daniel Spajic will speak in front of the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14194	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected guests. All developed economies have no chance of developing an insurance industry that is working together with the state to reduce the impact of natural disasters on the budget. To mitigate the impact of demographic change on the pension system, to strengthen the effectiveness of the health system, etc. We didn't learn anything from the Gunjo case. The property was not secured, so politicians spent a billion and 200 million kuna of taxpayers' damages on recovery. And when politicians repair damage in a country where the perception of corruption is the largest in the EU, 97%, it is clear that there is a huge ineffectiveness in spending public money. The politicians of the Gunja example obviously did not want to learn anything, so we had a much larger disaster, an earthquake in the city of Zagreb. Although hundreds of people in the state administration and the city of Zagreb are in charge of security of property, and they pay brokers, a lot of state city property is not secured, so tax bonds will be fully covered. There were no incentives or organised access to the state, city and housing to secure private property, so the failure of taxpayers will cost between 50 billion and 60 billion kuna. And when politicians manage the damages of property, it's like sending character wolves to Pag to guard the lambs. For example, Zagreb is a clear, organised approach to insurance companies and managers, it would allow the additional coverage of the construction part of the building to be below one kuna per metre square month, which is something most citizens can afford. Tax bonds wouldn't pay tens of billions unnecessarily. But is that in the government's best interest? The way he's working right now, obviously he's not. Why not, at least today after the Zagreb disaster, take concrete legal and other measures to ensure that this does not happen in the future. They say the earthquake in Zagreb, that the earthquake in Zagreb will happen again, is just a matter of when and how strong it will be. What if it happens again in a few years? Citizens and companies with earthquake damage coverage paid or in the payment phase of nearly 500 million kuna, this would have been the case with other damages if the state had promoted and subsidized property insurance. The state has big, big demographic problems, the first pension column is in bankruptcy, only 50% of the necessary funds for any poor pensions are collected through contributions, and the rest is covered by taxes that are intended for the very other needs of citizens and economies. The reform of the second pillar is stuck at 5%, the increase in isolation has never occurred because of a huge deficit from the pillar itself. Under such circumstances, the government would be expected to boost private savings and disbursement of public pension funds. However, according to the budget, only 80 million kuna is intended to encourage voluntary pension savings as billions fly everywhere. In 2020, the budget will be nearly $160 billion, which means only 0.05% of the budget will be spent, half the budget will be spent to encourage voluntary pension savings. And the tax relief on life insurance has long been lifted. The government has no focus on one of the burning problems of Croatian society. Finally, the state has little use of the insurance industry to address burning problems that are further accumulated and escalated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14195	Thank you, too. Mr. Boris Lalovac will be the positions of the HDZ Representatives' Club on this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. So today, we are facing the Insurance Act that we need to comply with, not only with one directive but here, I think more directives and directives on, not just Solvency II, but for the Financial Instruments Market Directive and about preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. The most important insurance directive is actually this Solvency II, because Solvency II is a directive that talks about harmonising all insurance operations on the single European market, just as it is going towards a single banking union, so Solvency II is trying to level the business of insurance companies on the market of some 500 million people, or 500 million insurance companies. And it certainly gets the most into the areas of capital regulation and what changes, which is actually the opening and said the secretary of state that here in the law itself, the essence of the change in this law is that it actually changes and decreases the volatility of the non-risk interest rate from 100 to 85 basis points. Since this non-risk interest rate is the basis for calculating technical reserves as heard here, the non-risk interest rate plus premiums is actually going on, the risk premium is going on, to form certain technical reserves in case of certain damages that when it happens, the insurance has enough capital to be able to pay off certain damages and they account for 80% of the active part of the capital and certainly enables additional liquidity in the financing of their additional investment. We've heard here that these could be investments in government bonds that are still carrying less and less yields, right? So just as we're going to have a problem with pension funds that in the long run with such low bond yields will bear lower yields and our pensions are also related to insurance houses that a large part of their assets keep in, a large part of their assets are held in bonds. So this is another measure since, in this part, the non-risk interest rate is defined mostly on German bonds, they always refer to a German bond at EU level this and the relationship between German bonds and Croatian bonds is always seen as a particular, as a certain risk premium for each Member State. And now this part sets some new standards. So, the SDP Club, given not only that this part of the directive is a harmonisation but also that of these other measures where everything that goes in favour of citizens and harmonisation of services on the single European market, which ultimately leads to a improvement for Croatian citizens, we will certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14197	Thank you, too. Mr. Josip Begonja will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14198	... In accordance with the provisions of Article 204 and in addition Article 206 thereof, we are well aware of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored State Secretary with fellow Members, Associates, colleagues and fellow Members. [[Specially enabled.]] The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament there are circumstances why laws are passed by emergency procedure, including for other particularly justified state reasons. These circumstances also include laws that comply with EU documents. It is for these very reasons that we also have before us this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, which was basically adopted in 2012, and since then the law has been brought into line twice with the EU acquis, for the last time in the spring of this year. This law regulates issues already raised by the applicable law concerning the establishment, business, termination of the insurance company, resecuritisation companies and mutual insurance companies, as well as issues related to representation in insurance, insurance and resecuritisation and supervision by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Directive 138 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is also known as Solvency II Directive, is incorporated into the content of the law itself, which aims to increase the protection of insurance undertakings, to set insolvency limits which determine the total risk exposure. The further normative harmonisation of the applicable law was with Directive 97/2016. In fact, the European Parliament and the Council are concerned with the insurance distribution directive, which concerns harmonisation with the provisions governing the operation of insurance distribution and resecuritisation operations. As I said in the first half of this year, the applicable law is in line with the EU Commission Regulation 1935, which amended Directive 97/2016, hence the insurance distribution directive, and that Regulation gives the European Insurance Supervisor and Occupational Pensions Authority the power to review insurance relations against professional liability as well as the necessary amounts of financial means available to the insurance and reinsurance intermediaries to take account of the European Consumer Prices Index. Today, we have before us a proposal for new amendments and an addition to the existing insurance laws which make it necessary to comply with Directive 2177 of 2019 amending 3 Directives, a minor part of Directive 138 of 2009, Directive 65 of 2014 and Directive 849 of 2015 on the prevention of the use of financial resources for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing. This proposal for a law shall adopt the provisions of Directive 2117 of last year in respect of the adjustment of volatility. We can therefore say that this is a change in the price of financial instruments to non-risk interest rates by insurance companies where base, base points from 100 to 85 change. When we talk about the size of a change in a financial instrument, most often it is considered as a standard deviation of price changes, and serves as an indicator of its own risk indicator and the volatility of the financial instrument is greater, and its risk is greater. Furthermore, it is also indicated here that the amendments to this law introduce and the obligation of supervisory authorities to notify the European Insurance Supervisor and Professional Peace Insurance Authority of the requirements for the use or modification of the internal risk assessment model, but also that some other obligations of the European Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Professional Pension Insurance and Supervisory Authorities of the relevant host Member State are made in the issue of an authorisation to work in a company. It has also been said that in the 5th month of the last amendment and addition of this law, but this Directive 2117 of last year, which came into force in January this year, has a relatively short period for the transposition of this European provisions of this Directive in national legislation, but as is known, there has been a disbandation of the 9th Assembly, and this is why today the proposal here by the Proposer is here today to be adopted by an urgent procedure. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this government's Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14199	Thank you. Mr. Miro Bulj will now begin, in fact he will be the only one who will have an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14200	Thank you very much. Here I would just say at the end when a colleague from HDZ said this was the government's proposal, this is just another...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14201	Mr. Bull, you should come here, it's such a procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14202	How about this one, huh?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14203	Yeah. That's what we agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14204	Thank you very much. Here, after his presentation at the end of the HDZ colleagues said this is the Government's proposal, this is the copying of regulations and directives daily that are generally not applied and respected in the Republic of Croatia and this is a key problem which is what the executive and other authorities in the Republic of Croatia do not respect the decisions made by this assembly. And that's what colleagues and colleagues are always talking about. I would just say that the mentioned earthquake in Zagreb from the insurance problem we had a fire in Dalmatia, had Gunja in Slavonia, a flood, unfortunately the elemental threat and other threats always above the neck. However, the biggest threat and I don't know how the distinguished secretary of state can ensure Croatia from you, from your management to 2/3 of Croatia, which is empty how to secure agricultural land that we cannot build, means that you are more pests than these threats and insurance that we need to make, and the results are visible. Is this possible in this regulation, has the EU written to you, is that what Andrej Plenkovic agreed on at the Council of Europe with ministers and prime ministers? Is it just before, we here, gentlemen, bring in the unanimity laws of the loan savings credit cooperatives RBA and you gentlemen of the executive government do nothing to protect these people who are damaged in the Republic of Croatia from the side-saving credit cooperatives who come to the executive solutions to get kicked out of their only real estate. Then we'll find a law to ensure that you're in the assembly that you're obliged to enforce laws, and you're not, and that's executive power. The law of lex Škibola so-called. I've brought the entire assembly in unanimity, and you state secretary when you were an HNS parliamentary representative, you're probably in the HNS right now, but that's the continuity of governance, no matter what coalition. I'm curious as to why the executive power doesn't protect people from the obligation that came from the decision made by the council, the law, the unanimous law, the lex Squibola so-called. Shut up, nobody's saying anything, because you'll find an excuse, the European Commission, we have to prescribe their regulations, directives every morning, and they're absolutely rejecting what we bring to the assembly. Then what is the purpose of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, to come this morning by a colleague of Begonja and read the regulation that was prescribed as law i.e. Read it, read it, read it. So we've lost our sense of purpose here if we continue like this, and the sense that we bring laws into the interest of a man to remain in the Republic of Croatia. That is why I propose here if there is a way to enter into the regulation or to talk to the European Commission or at the next meeting of the EU Council of Ministers that Prime Minister Plenkovic further proposes how to protect Croatian citizens from the policies that you are leading in all segments. In particular, the demographic segment, the economic, economic, is that it is not different for us to have, perhaps the EU is responding to the fact that our best-quality people are going to the EU, so we have a law on foreigners that we have liberal about it. So I don't know what to say anymore. I'm curious to know why you don't respect the laws as the executive authority that this assembly brings. Why not protect the citizens who, under this law, are to be protected? Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14205	You can stay because Mrs. Petyr was looking for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bulj, you spoke of demographic challenges that are a serious problem for Croatia, but also for most of the new Member States and there, we must certainly make every effort to maintain and ensure the conditions for our people to stay in Croatia. But you're saying several times that our best-quality people are leaving as you imply that those who aren't quality stay here that I can't agree with. Every man of ours is equally valuable, equally important, has his personality, his skills, skills and quality, and in that sense, and in this way we must observe them and do everything to achieve in their full dignity, to have secure jobs and normal living conditions. You mentioned insurance in agriculture, so I'd just like to say, I don't know exactly what you meant, but we have crop insurance and plantation from natural disasters, and here I can gladly report that the ministry has respected our Committee on Agriculture's proposal. And that he will also bring in security for the protection of the crops and the pestilence of the savages, for the savage is doing terrible harm. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14207	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14208	Well, colleagues Petir, I appreciate your experience, from the key person Stjepan Mesic, to the main person in the Andre Plenkovic coalition, so I can sign everything you said except for this piece in which I disagree, which is that they remain the most qualified people in Croatia or outside. I just said that people went after bread with their stomachs and 2/3 of Croatia is empty, empty. Your Slavonia is empty. I don't know. You see her. Or you really had another picture in the European Parliament. My Dalmatian Zagora is literally, I'm sorry to have to say this, empty, schools are collapsing. I know that you have an interest in defending Andrej Plenkovic's politics but it is neither religious nor Christian, but above all it is not true because 2/3 of Croatia are empty. And that's true. Look how much we produce agricultural goods, how much we import. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14209	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Credentials. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14210	Dear Mr. Vice President, my colleague Bulj has been injured by an officer. 238 because it's false. I have made it very clear that he claims that the best-quality people have gone, which means that those who aren't good-quality stayed here, I have denied it because I believe that all our people in their personality are equal in quality, have their abilities, don't twist my words. As far as the policy I'm conducting is concerned, I've been conducting a policy of protection of the interest of the Croatian people as I've done my whole life. You're not taking the exclusivity that you're the only national rep. And we're all not even down to your knees. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] So it's inadmissible what you're doing. [[Intruder Radin: Mrs. Petir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14211	I let you talk because you know as well as I that it was a replica, so I have to give a warning. A colleague of Bulj also gave a violation of the Rules of Procedure [[Adversity Petir: A colleague of Bulj gives lies and insults other MPs.]] Here you go. [[Intruder Petir: Hurt art. 238.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14212	Thank you very much. A colleague named Petyr has been injured by an article. 238, I don't know why she's nervous, I didn't hurt you, I just listed certain facts that I appreciate your great experience of being the key person of Stjepan Mesic, that you are now defending the gentleman's attitudes and that I respect you, however.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14213	Okay, well, I'm still presidencies, so I gave the line to the lady, and I gave the notice to Mrs. McNally. I'm also giving you a warning because it's my job, not your job. Let's allow it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14214	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the officer has been injured. 238, for he defamations all the time and insults the other representatives and harasses us. All the time, not reading any of the acts but repeating from the session to the session on each point of the same thesis that people will think is a lie. [[I gave him a warning.]] So fellow Bull, I beg you to behave in accordance with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14215	Okay, I've given all the warnings and I hope Friday is enough, I mean, really. Mr. Stjepan Curaj will speak on behalf of the promoter, please be final.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14216	Thank you, Vice President. So, finally, as regards the presentation and comments of the distinguished representatives, Representative Bulj problemed again the savings-credit cooperatives of the Law on the value of the credit agreements with international features concluded in the Republic of Croatia, etc. Scybol's law which is not the subject of these amendments and the same law is still in force and the proceedings are before the court that this ministry neither government nor can interfere. The esteemed representative Spajic raised issues of the amount or total of collateral, as far as only one data are concerned, I believe that the earthquake insurance towards the contracted premium is slightly more than 1% of the total non-life insurance premiums in 2019, so I agree that this is certainly a way in which some of these unwanted events and easier to bridge, but the state has no authority or should favour individual private businesses such as insurance in terms of promoting the same and imposing obligations, which is also the free option for citizens to choose whether to provide something or not. As far as co-financing is concerned, there are some, well-respected MP Petir mentioned and co-financing related to crop insurance, your mentioned, third pension column or voluntary pension savings are also co-financed, so up to the amount of 5000 kn subsidized annually with 750 kn, you mentioned the amount that was secured. Also, as far as incentives are concerned, they are those who can be in line with the non-destruction of the competition itself. The esteemed representative Lalovac mentioned compliance with Solvency II, which is one of the extensions of the same, the harmonisation therefore, this amendment is being added. In addition, as regards the very adjustment for volatility, it has been calculated monthly and carried out by the European Insurance Supervisor for Structural Pensions Insurance, also mentioned the esteemed representative Lalovec as regards our insurance company and the application of this volatility option, the volatility adjustment, it must go, until now, we hope that this law may achieve this possibility but must ić, with the prior approval of the Croatian Financial Society Supervisory Agency. As for the portfolio itself, which was also mentioned by the esteemed representative Lalovac, the highest investment is in over 60%, so almost 2/3 of the investment in government bonds is further approximately 8% and 8% respectively, in loans with a 7% stake, and investment funds of about 5%, which is the structure that insurance companies do with the premiums themselves. The esteemed representative Begonja has well noted why this is important for us as regards urgency in terms of both scope and scope, and also for the opportunities that they bear themselves, so we absolutely agree, as well as the context and continuation of the application of these changes in relation to the regulation of this market, all with the same aim of protecting citizens and preserving the financial system itself which, as I must remind you, has been a crisis since 2008 that has been caused by the disturbance of financial markets and systems that later caused the global crisis. And yet again, the distinguished representative Bulj, as far as the copying of the directive is concerned, so if I can interpret it, so it's not a problem, this is a good proposal, it's just a problem that we... on the EU directive, unfortunately, we cannot now choose what we want and what we don't want, and I think that we must generally see whether this is better for our citizens, we believe that it is and that it will also bring greater opportunities for the insurance companies themselves to have their own resources if there are some unforeseen crises, and that means, in general, the impact on the market itself. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, it would also point out on behalf of the applicant that the Committee on Law had two nomotechnical amendments to Article. 2. the applicant accepts, and also to Article 2. 8th also accepted by the applicant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14217	You stay here, you have three replicas, the first replica was asked for by Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14218	Dear Secretary of State Curai, I understand that we must coordinate i.e. you lay down laws with the European Directives and regulations. However, all the directives and regulations we adopt or most of the problem is that they are not implemented and that is what parliamentary representatives must warn the executive authority. I've set only one example. It's not literally just important for us to raise our hands here and say, in the end, we're making thousands of directives, regulations, and we've implemented them. The problem is implementation, and I have set an example of whether the Ministry of Finance is competent, your ministry and the Croatian government, it is the law of lex Škibol, which is not applied in practice but rather vice versa. These people who are damaged, our citizens, our citizens, are being executed against the law that we have passed in this assembly. And the question arises what is the meaning of HS if executive The government doesn't do anything? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14219	Mr. Chury.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14220	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Bulj, I'm glad you agree with these suggestions and that you actually support the same transposition and application. As far as the law you mention is concerned, it is not the subject of this, this item of the agenda. However, they can only point out that the law remains in force, that certain proceedings are before the courts, and that the ministry must not and cannot participate in the proceedings itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14221	Mrs. Devereaux. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, so far here we have had insurance paid by the Ministry of Agriculture in the hunting sector for the damage that the gamer has done in transport with some 52.7 million kunas after our insistence on the board to expand, the Minister has confirmed that the damage that the game is doing in crops will be caught, so that the amount could go to the value of 60 million kuna that the Ministry of Agriculture will provide for the damage done by game and in transport and in crops. We think it's extremely important, especially in areas that have been killed by war because there's been a crossover of savages and, of course, domestic pigs, and they've domesticated so much that they're getting into people's backyards and doing terrible damage, so I think this is going to be one contribution where HS encouraged to the government to bring adequate solutions. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14223	Thank you, time, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Chure the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14224	Thank you. So, it's not a particular subject of these changes, but I can agree that the continuation of what's actually been going on in the last year's term, and it's been passed down right now that even since the attack of a car on a game, the issue of insurance as well as the management of the hunting grounds and, and, and the cooperatives doing so. This is me thinking a logical sequence and it's absolutely something that's being extended to a new law already passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14225	... Mr. Spijic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14226	Dear Secretary of State, I didn't say anywhere in my presentation that the state should suggest to citizens where to secure or yes, that you should favor an insurance house. I made it clear that the state needs to promote more and subsidize asset insurance. I know that you have nothing to do with insurance houses and that they are private, but that doesn't mean that you can't tell our people what's good, that you promote it, that you subsidize it, that it's easier for them to pay it, that things like this don't happen later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14227	Here you go, Mr. Chury.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14228	I thank you for your clarification. So I am, however, being influenced by citizens with the goal of insurance. I agree that as far as the promotion itself is concerned, we should use all the channels that we can introduce people to the benefits. However, certain funds of the insurance companies themselves are being spent on marketing, so I believe that we are giving our pain through this way of discussion and that certain benefits should be highlighted in such a public space. However, each one of them is both going and going with his budget, which he has and is calculating with these risks, both for compulsory insurance and for these voluntary and simply we have to do what can be agreed upon by raising that financial literacy of citizens in which there is one part, one part of the insurance. And as for the subsidies themselves, it's always a slippery area because we have this custom that we want to put more and more under these subsidies, which, of course, falls under support, and sometimes they're not allowed. [[Intruder:]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-13-0.u14229	Thank you. We don't have any more replicas. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
