ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9689	The next statement is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9690	I thank the esteemed Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, in the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, we've already talked a few times in this assembly about it, but they say that repeating is the mother of knowledge, and I'm going to present a little more concrete data today. So in the pandemic of the crown of the virus is a temporary halt to measure 6.1. obtaining first work experience or traineeship, which is one of the active employment policies for all professions that it is an obligation to later access the expert exam, obtaining a license, and therefore one of such professions is as I suppose you know, and therefore our most productive profession today, which is a health profession. The implementation of the measures began again in September, so only in September began the implementation of the 2020 measure, but there are no competitions in public health institutions yet, and only a few tenders have been published in the private sector. The latest competitions in public institutions were launched only in October last year. So, in this year, there has been no competition at all for what is foreseen in the 2020 plan. However, it is not only that absurd, even greater absurdity is the quota adopted for traineeships and approved places for so-called. traineeships. For example, the number of quotas is next at the level of all Croatia. Watch out, 99 interns for hospitals, so neither 100 interns for hospitals in our country, whose number includes all health professions as well as higher and medium professional preparation. All 50 trainees for health care homes and 21 trainees for public health services have been approved. In all, we are talking about 33 traineeships for the largest health institutions. For example, 5 seats have been approved in our largest health institution in the country in KBC. I'm not talking about what's so real, it's just been planned and it's not even a day's competition yet. So only 5 approved places for KBC Zagreb. KBC Rijeka also 5 seats. KBC Split 5 traineeships. KBC Vinogradska i Sestre Milordnice only 5 places and our COVID Hospital KB Dubrava 5 places until KB Mercury received 4 seats. Clinic for Children's Diseases as well as KB Mercury only 4 traineeships. But neither is the absurdity of what has not even started a traineeship contest yet, nor is the absurdity of this so small number of planned traineeships. The biggest absurd is that these people, especially those health professions that we lack, must therefore be registered as unemployed at the office, cannot therefore work to exercise their right to work and to pay and for 3 years wait to do the internship by accessing a professional exam and only then obtaining a license for their independent work. So at the same time in Croatia there are no medical staff missing. The Minister of Health calls for general mobilization. He invites retired doctors and medical staff to help colleagues in the fight against the pandemic and return to their previous posts, and on the other hand we have a paradox parallel to thousands of new students enrolling schools and colleges after which they have to perform a traineeship and are unable to obtain a license for what they have been trained for. According to the Croatian Employment Institute for 2020, 170 traineeships remained unused compared to the plan adopted at the beginning of the implementation of this measure in 2018. This way, I call on Minister Beros to move forward with his mobilization of health and to immediately hire these people to be granted a traineeship and to pay them adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9767	The following statement of view on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9768	Thank you, Vice President. I will talk again today and on several occasions again about what is a key problem and society and, and, and, and the economy, and that is this covid crisis. We appealed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia about a week ago to change the model of crisis management, and first of all, to separate the levels of decision-making from epidemiologists as an epidemiological profession that makes certain epidemiological recommendations to this other political level, which then makes decisions whether it is a government that formalises a recommendation as a decision, whether it is about us in a assembly that formalises it in the form of regulations for the reasons that certain recommendations restrict constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Of course, as you know none of it, none of it's adopted, but what's the consequence? The consequence is that we do not have a point of responsibility for government and headquarters moves, and for which many scientists and experts, including the Croatian Association of Doctors, say they are hypocritical, dangerous and cowardice. What exactly are we talking about? We are talking about whether it was Prime Minister Plenkovic or was it Mr. Capak or was he Deputy Prime Minister Bozinovic, who is precisely responsible for the decisions that create exceptions to the application of epidemiological measures such as the exception for the celebration of Torcida in Split, or as is now foreseen for the Colon of Memory in Vukovar? We said yesterday and publicly announced that we are absolutely aware of the importance and importance of that day, that we are aware of how many columns of memory it means to many, and that we are aware that it is not only the Vukovars, but all those who took part in the defence of Vukovar, who today may live throughout Croatia and who want to come to Vukovar on that day. But we are also aware that the absolute priority now is to protect the health of citizens. If this is our priority, if we want to protect our citizens and if we have said that everyone in their private life and in our business life and we as a society are now making certain concessions, that we will refrain from certain behaviors, then it must always be valid and must be worth everything. Because if we allow big gatherings because it's a special day, then everything that we do here right now, everything that all the other citizens do, everything that everyone who can't get to work or children who are in self-insulation and not on a regular course at school, all of them, they all do it for that to throw it all in the water in one day, we can't let that happen. I appeal once again to measure, epidemiological measures are linked to clear indicators of the number of infected, and in particular projections of the number to be hospitalized so that they know exactly what plan A is, when we go to plan B measures, when we go to plan C measures and that this decision is not an arbitration decision at that time of any other prime minister but that it is automatically applied when these particular parameters of the number of patients or the number that needs hospitalisation are realized. A number of scientific experts appeal to that. Another thing that is extremely important and does not go towards you as colleagues, but it goes towards members of the Scientific Council or the Scientific Council. It would be extremely important that when members of the Scientific Council come out in public to step forward as a collective who has reached a common decision and a joint recommendation that all members can stand behind. It is not right that every day individual members with divergent attitudes go out on their own, it confuses citizens and reduces citizens' confidence in what the profession tells them and what politics tells them. The priority is that we all work together now to return this citizens' trust in managing this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9769	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9770	Okay, here's a colleague of Bencic's saying I don't see this as a sign of God. My colleague Bencic was held on September 19th in Pride Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9771	What, what article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9772	238, of course, 238, Pride Zagreb, where there were 100-and-100 of your contemporaries and you were if I wasn't wrong, were you? It wasn't you? And so were you, and then you didn't mind the social distance, and then the coronary crisis and the coronary epidemic. So, colleagues are double standards. The Vukovar does, and if that's how Pride's gonna do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9773	Well, you know it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica, you get a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9831	It will present the position of the IP, Smart and Voice Club of Mrs Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9832	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. In today's free speech, I'm going to use parts of the text of one of our distinguished journalists, I'm not going to make her identity come out that I don't want to stretch it out for any of her, any list that she writes for, but her words in this assembly have to be heard. The title itself says this way, "Our judiciary is where the fates take place, but neither the government nor the opposition cares." Those words upset me deeply, and I hope it upsets all of you. The text reads "Last week, the Constitutional Court made a decision that would have serious and far-reaching consequences for Croatia's trial, and no one in the country looked back on it. A bit unusual or all starting from the government of Andrej Plenkovic to the entire opposition raised their hands from the judiciary or they believe that everything is in the best order in the judiciary. It is the Constitutional Court's decision that the establishment of a High Criminal Court which will decide in appeals in all the most important criminal cases does not violate the constitutional position of the Supreme Court whose job is to unify case law. The Constitutional Court launched the constitutionality assessment procedure and blocked the start of the work of the High Criminal Court until its final decision, and an important element in the decision was their opinion of the Court of Criminal Law Department with four law schools as many of them as Croatia has. They made a decision until they got those opinions, but what is unusual when those opinions were received did not respect them. Therefore, four cathedrals have sent their opinions to the Constitutional Court in which they claim that the establishment of a new High Criminal Court violates and narrows the constitutional authority of the Supreme Court to ensure, as the highest court in the state, the uniform application of the right and equality of all in its application. The uniform application of the right implies that when courts establish the same factual situation and apply the same legal norm, they must adopt the same judgment or the same sentence. This achieves legal certainty and predictability." This is the property that the Croatian state lost, which the Croatian judiciary lost and that is the right that has been denied to all of our citizens. The journalist wonders the Constitutional Court procedure which, although not bound by any deadlines in the decision and there was no objective reason not to study in peace all the material that the experts of the Constitutional Court delivered to them, hurried with their decision, and also surprised the journalist with the reaction of the Registrar Minister who called his press conference before Constitutional Court President Miroslav Separovic was able to explain the reasons for the Constitutional Court's decision. I don't find that surprising, but I understand who the officials and the members of the Constitutional Court are, and who is also the authorising officer of the resolution minister. And what was written in the explanation, for example, of the Department of Criminal Procedural Law of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, given on as many as 150 pages of a very, very over-represented opinion. Among other things, Zlata Djurdjevic, as our supreme authority in the area, said that the establishment of a High Criminal Court to which the entire appeal jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was transferred, made one reckless and hasty decision, both normically and organisationally. Its main arguments are apostrophysed and journalistic and suggests that after the new court's operation, we will get 12 criminal judges at the Supreme Court who will decide only on audits, such cases will be only 150 a year. So much for efficiency and efficiency and rationality. It also contests the competencies of judges who will decide in appeal proceedings in the new High Criminal Court. Some of them have so far had no experience dealing with appeal procedures, and they are awaited by very complex cases such as the Agrokor case, perhaps those items concerning former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, but also the Janaf case that is just running and that is where we come to the main problem. So in November of last year, the State Judiciary Council appointed 11 judges to the new strange, ill-designed High Court of Penalty. Among them is Judge Ivan Turudic, one of those who went into an illegal club, a club formed by the President of the Board of Administration, Mr. Kovacevic, one of those arrested in a recent affair, one whose criminal proceedings are now being conducted in a court that holds the same Turudic chairmanship, and today will decide to appeal in his cases. Isn't that devastating? But what is truly the biggest defeat is the journalist's findings that these issues are not of interest to the opposition. Well, I call upon the opposition to show that the journalist is wrong. There are institutions in the Rules of Procedure that can encourage debate on reports of judicial authorities, as well as launch initiatives to adopt a new Strategy to combat corruption and correct those laws that are bad. There's plenty of time left for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9833	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9861	The next debate on behalf of representatives of Croatian sovereigns is the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9862	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I believe that we will all agree that children are our greatest treasure, our greatest treasure, and then we are all sensitive when someone touches on our children, when they try to raise them the way their families do, their parents don't want them to. And that right comes from any part of the political spectrum and that of the left, and those who are in the center, and those who are right who are thinking sovereignly and those who are thinking globally. And if someone, for example, had children of liberals, a globalist, whatever they call them, the leftist tried to force himself to lead for example to the teaching of religious science, I would be sure that they would rebel. So if someone were to place on their school e-mails that CARNET shares some content that promotes the doctrine of the Catholic Church, I'm sure there's a colleague from the left-green block that would lift up and say something about it. However, we have a different situation. We have one more radical LGBTIQ still has a million and one letter of propaganda. These days, e-mails, school e-mails from children aged 10 to 12 come from the association now I don't know if it's a canva or a canva. Otherwise it is an online graphic editor for making photos that invites children to LGBTIQ activation. I always say there's more letters missing. They're a little out there, so they left out 10 more letters of the alphabet. So I will read to you the contents of that email, which reads: “Be proud of what you believe is important to forget that change must begin somewhere. Common support for what you believe and commitment to it are the reasons for starting the procession of pride. Although this year's procession, the party, the festivals will not be held by a procession of pride cannot be cancelled. Show your support to LGBTIQ plus the community and everyone wherever you are. This is our chance to embrace our differences and unite our voices. Transfer the spirit of support and association on the Internet along with our new offer of templates and resources celebrate diversity etc." And then suggest in the mail some icons of two girls, then two boys, then a boy with flowers etc. and suggest that the LGBTIQ ideology is celebrated. Anyone can be gay if they choose. She can also be a lesbian. It could be this other layer of transsexual and that's legitimate. There are also in the Croatian Parliament and that is not the problem. I know at least five of them. The problem, however, is if this ideology, this worldview in this perfidious way imposes on our children. Where do you get the right to send school e-mails, not this private mail, this is a mail school.hr shared by CARNET to systematically send such materials to children? This is a question for the Minister of Education. This is also a question for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for our Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, as he thinks of this. And on the other hand, we have one fantastic same situation that parents can't even make an official complaint about this because they don't have the possibility of entering their child's email unless, of course, their child gives them that possibility. So school is an educational institution. However, those educational content, what we Croatian sovereigns want, must be in line with what their families represent. If the family is a Christian worldview, I am sure that parents will want their child to be raised in that spirit. If the family of some LGBT worldview is legitimate to raise a child in that spirit, isn't it? But it's out of the question that children who don't want this LGBT ideology to be forced into a very perfidious way to impose this ideology on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9863	Thank you. The next statement of view on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u9937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs, distinguished advocates who about anything, I will talk about Slava, Baranja and Srem. During these last two days in the Croatian Parliament, I felt a kind of heifer who is preparing for this project, i.e. on advice for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, who, in my opinion, is a Slavonci man who lives his entire life in the area and has not gone anywhere from this same Slavonia that many kunas are about, and has been abandoned by the first, some during the war, some after the war, and some because Zagreb has given them a much better life. Well, I stayed in that Slavonia, Baranja and Srem, and I'll stay to the end. The project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem is the best that could have happened to Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem in the last 100 years. Why is counsel for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem established? Why did the Government of the Republic of Croatia set up advice for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem? I'll tell you. All five Slavonian counties are being developed evenly. So I'm going to ask you, do you know who's in charge of Babi's Grid? Do you know who's chief in the Bosniaks? Do you know who the mayor of Belize is? Do you know who the mayor of Valpovo is? Do you know who the mayor of Osijek is? None of them are HDZ, none of them are HDZ, and projects and investments go both in these municipalities and cities. 19,000 projects are currently in operation in the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, which is from the EU, and of course from national funds. And perhaps a scientific data that is very important, there's a lot of talk here about this Slavonia, Baranja and Srem, and it's mostly those people who haven't even been in that same Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem for years, but it sounds good, Slavonia goes down, Slavonia's gone, Slavonia's gone. Well, that's not true, gentlemen dear. You know when the first scientific assembly for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem was held in 1971. The greatest dignitaries of that time made a scientific analysis of the situation in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema. When it comes to demographics, you know what their first observation was? Why are there fewer people in that space? Going abroad in 1971, that's 50 years apart. Migration will exist. So where would Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem be if the people of Zagora, Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, like, Dalmatia, where they would be, would have been empty, but it remained empty because of the bad policies that were led in the space of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. And now that we've got a good policy for Slavonia, Baranja and Sreem, it's now a hickey. You have to kill a cow for a steak because someone put on a mustache, imagine. Well, there are institutions dealing with who's got the mustache and who's got something that doesn't belong to him. So let that same guy who has his OIB answer to the DORH, UskoK or anyone else, but try to stop the project of Slavonia and Baranja and call it the PR agency or call it a non-proprietary association, if that's not going to work. I live in this Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem as well as many honorable people who sit in this Croatian Parliament and every day return to this Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, unlike some who have washed well the lights of Zagreb's town, are not me. I am not, and I will fight for this Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Andreja Plenkovic, who had the courage and I will be able to say that for the first time in the history of the Croatian state in these 30 years he will establish an institute that will deal exclusively with the problems of people living in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Isn't that good? It's not good, it's great, but of course you need to invent something that can rock the foundations of a project like this, one. Therefore, whether you are from Slavonia, Baranja, or Srijem, I will tell you that there live honest, honest, and worthy people, and that is how it will be. Our political assistance is needed to achieve our goals, therefore we are in the Croatian Parliament, so we will be here in the Croatian Parliament as long as we have their support. And these fines running around here these days are something I'm never going to agree with and what I'm going to fight with in my heart. Not as the lawyer of Andrej Plenkovic or anyone else, but as a man who lives his whole life in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u10002	Since it's 13 o'clock, we can start taking a stand now. On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the first reported a distinguished representative, Sanja Radolovic. She's not here. He's losing his right. Another registered representative, Ruzica Vukovac, on behalf of the Homeland Movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u10003	Thank you very much, highly respected chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. On October 4th, World Animal Protection Day was marked. In Croatia, few people remembered him, only a handful of individuals, volunteers. And what is the situation in Croatia when we talk about the rights and the protection of animals? According to the European Commission's revision in Croatia, Rasa is not respected by EU animal welfare laws. Reports made by the commission speak of the catastrophic abuse of animals transported by ships to the Middle East and North Africa. The brutality and application of the excessive force have been witnessed by many reporters, and reports are full of detailed descriptions of the most brutal methods used daily to board ships. And of course in the background of all this is the money Croatia gets from all the users of this notorious port. Croatia has no mercy on animals born in the economies of our OPG. These animals from birth to slaughter or sell live with our children and our cattlemen. Croatia is the only country in the EU that has so high standards for the registration and business of slaughterhouses that eventually animals suffer. In Slavonia, if you want to slaughter an animal for your own purposes, even if it has been injured and unable to transport, you are obliged to load it into a truck or a tractor trailer and drive it several hundred kilometers because the inspections have closed down almost all the slaughterhouses for failing to meet the high standards prescribed by the Ministry of Agriculture, and there are only a few left, unlike for example. Austria or Germany, which allow animals to die using methods that are least painful and stressful for the animal itself, on the very economy without further torturing and forcing the animal to load, land hundreds of kilometers of transport. Croatia also has its Animal Wellbeing Act, obviously only on paper. Why am I saying that? I am witnessing daily calls to help countless volunteers who have empathy towards an abandoned, hungry and injured creature who feels pain, fear, cold, hunger. In Slavonia, hundreds of thousands of people remained abandoned after leaving. They were free to move in search of food and, of course, reproduced. Today, more or less at any cemetery or any illegal garbage dump, you will first encounter animals, dogs and cats, you can try calling communal directors, veterinarians, inspections, nothing will work. They don't abide by the Animal Well-being Act. Only a few valuable volunteers who break this law most often because they tend to provide far more animals than the number they are allowed to feed and help animals by texting the Animal Wellbeing Act. Volunteers speak to municipalities and cities, but it is often with a smile or countless excuses. Although the Animal Welfare Act requires each JLS to take care of the animal from its territory, it is clear to some commissioners and some other officials that the implementation of this law is not controlled. And just two months ago, I accidentally walked across the street in Zagreb and heard the unbearable beatings and the whine of the dog, immediately asking the passersby if they knew what was going on because the blows and the crying of the animals never stopped. The man told me it was normal and that it happens every day, and that the younger man throws his dog in the wall because he made an emergency in his apartment. Of course, the dog never does, and the dog has to do it somewhere. Neighbors have already given up reporting and calling the police and the others because no one has ever responded. I immediately applied to the state inspectorate, and as a parliamentary representative, I asked for urgent treatment and you know what? No one reacted. The Greek Parliament has just unanimously confirmed a stricter law that now considers animal abuse to be a serious criminal offense by which the perpetrator will be punished by 10 years. Prison. Finally, I will quote the sentence of the great man Mahatma Gandhi: “The greatness and the moral advancement of the people will be measured by the way they treat animals. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u10004	Thank you. The next statement of view is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u10059	Thank you. A esteemed colleague in Slavonia lives honest people, but no one called those honest people, we called those who took revenge on this so-called so-called. a project of Slavonia that doesn't actually exist. The Slavonia project is no new institute, that's how much you know what it's all about. It's just someone named a set of projects that are implemented in the Slavonia area, and unfortunately, a good part of these projects, or money for these projects, ended up in the pockets of your party colleagues. That's what it is, it's not a lie, it's not a lie, ask around and see and face reality. What I'd like to talk about today is we've given two amendments to the budget, we've given them more but two key ones regarding our pensioners and regarding our health care professionals who have been hit and who are on the first line of defense against the virus's coronary. Both amendments have been rejected, and it concerns the people most at risk during this crisis. But what I'm particularly concerned about and what I have to react to is that not that you're not, that you're actually socially insensitive, but you don't care about the future at all. Those who should charge you with the budget, and these are micro entrepreneurs beginners to them these days the Tax Administration issues a solution to pay the difference in contributions for 2019. This is the famous law that you passed that year, we strongly opposed it here, warning you to impose an additional burden on you because the directors and members of the company's management, and here I especially think of these beginner entrepreneurs who are also in their companies directors, must pay full-time contributions, regardless of whether they work less and whether they have the funds to pay for this new charge. So since the beginning of this year, the measures are still tighter by increasing the base by 3.5% to 5,600 kuna, so you don't care if someone who started the company can even pay their full salary. And these days, the Tax Administration issues solutions that people in the midst of this crisis when there is no traffic, when there is no income at all that they have to pay that difference for 2019. Who's gonna fill your budget? If you destroy beginners who should be an economy engine in a year, two, three, who will fill your budget? Who's gonna fill your pockets? If you don't care about people anymore, think about your future, I know that's all you care about. Who will fill your pockets with the project Slavonia, which you are filling with these corruption affairs, wind power plants and others if you have no funds in your budget? Don't even worry about it. So if you don't already have social sensitivity, if you don't already care about the pensioners, if you don't care about health care professionals and at least think three steps ahead, don't just watch if you have today but watch what happens in three years. I call on the government of the Republic of Croatia to call on the IRS to step up these solutions, people don't have the means to pay that difference, they don't have the easy money in this crisis. Our entrepreneurs, especially our beginners, our micro-entrepreneurs should be the engine of the Croatian economy, do not destroy them now at the start of their business, give them a chance to overcome this crisis because without them there is no budget, and then there is no survival of the Croatian state. So, I'm asking from this place to do these solutions and give them a chance to get over this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u10683	Council meetings held on 1 and 2 October 2020 and on 15 and 16 October 2020 in Brussels The applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 125 MPs and MPs, 78 for, 39 abstentions and 8 against and the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee. The annual report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the applicant is the Prime Minister, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of HNS Representatives and Independent Representatives, the Club of Representatives of HSLS and the People's Party-reformist, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I am giving the following conclusion to the vote. 1. Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 2. The measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are supported in the Annual Report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 128 MPs and MPs voted, 76 for, 52 against and concluded that it was proposed by representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u11260	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Mosto Club to consult both on budget rebalancing and on the points that are coming. I cannot believe that the government, that Minister Maric, Prime Minister Plenkovic, has shown such insolence. You've raised 30% of your expenditures, but our citizens don't live better. No one felt it on their skin that increase in consumption. On the other hand, we asked for our healthcare professionals, for our doctors and nurses who are on the first line of defense from this epidemic supplementing the salary. Croatia is the only country that has not given it to its healthcare professionals, you refused. We've been looking for our pensioners. I don't know who it occurred to now go to change the TV signal while the people of our senior pensioners should be in their homes. You give them a new load, it's almost 300 kuna, so the receiver and HDM cable. We asked to secure a covid supplement for the pensioners and you refused. The only thing you don't give up is corruption. You don't give up on corruption. If you gave up on us no longer to talk about your corruption, we were sick of your corruption, if you stopped doing it, there would certainly be resources to help our pensioners and to help our healthcare professionals, to help our economy. Comrade Djakic, please calm down. I know it's not easy to listen about what you did to Slavonia, what you did with the Slavonia project how much money you blacked out, but believe it's much worse for Croatian citizens to watch and listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u11261	Thank you, comrade Grmoy. The apartment is of course approved. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u11262	Dear President HS, I demand a 10-minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. In fact, regarding budget rebalancing, the key item is the increase of EU membership fees. Croatia will in the next period, and we do not know how long this period will pay 155m euros in more membership fees, so over a billion kuna more. On this increase in membership, neither Minister Maric nor Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic had the courage to say a single word after the speaker. They're ignoring this one huge expense that's waiting for us in the coming years. Another extremely important thing is that the money that we will receive free of charge or receive on a gift from the EU is not free or is not a gift, it is not a gift. That money will have to be returned to Croatia. In what way? We don't know. It is not about the money that Mrs Merkel or Mr Macron will make out of the drawer or from the safe and give to EU members free of charge to Croatia. But it is about money that will have to return all EU members very likely to be proportional to how much money they have received. So these are key questions that we didn't get an answer to. These are key questions regarding our future. Finally, I would tell the Croatian public one more important fact, which is that Croatia has not received even enough money from the promised European money except a few million euros for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. And we've been hearing about this money since March, and we all get the impression that that money is already there, and we still don't have enough of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u11263	The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't, then we'll continue with the vote. Therefore, the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and the '21 projection. And '22. In addition to the proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for '21. And '22. The proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans of the non-financial beneficiaries for 2020 and the projection of the '21 plans are also submitted. And '22. year with a reason for Croatian waters, Croatian roads, Center for restructuring and sale, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, HZZO, Croatian highways, Rijeka-Zagreb highways, HZ Travel and HZ Infrastructure. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. The amendments were submitted by representative Vesna Nadj, representative of Boška Ban Vlahek, Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, Representative Miro Bulj, SDP Representatives Club, representative Barbara Antolic Vupa and representative Željko Pavić. We held the statement earlier at the session, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. We're going in a row, the first amendment to MP Vesna Nadj, the government doesn't accept, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The second amendment of the same representative is not accepted by the Government, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 3. The SDP advocates' club, the government doesn't accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number four of Boška Ban Vlahek, the government does not accept it, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 5 of the same representative, the government does not accept and we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? How about a score? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The sixth amendment of Boska Ban Vlahek's re-legislator, the government does not accept, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number seven of MPs of Mira Bulja, the government does not accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 8 of MP Barbara Antolic Vupra, the government does not accept it, so please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 9 of MP Željko Pavić, the government does not accept it, let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. Ten. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the government does not accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. The 11th representative of Boška Ban Vlahek, the government does not accept, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are going on another 2 amendments, one concerning the Croatian Waters Financial Plan, MP Mira Bulja, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. And the last amendment of the same representative, as regards the Croatian Roads Financial Plan, the government does not accept it, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. So now we move on to the vote on the amendment proposal and the addition of the state budget. On the basis of Art. 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of the HS for the adoption of the state budget requires most of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am voting on the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. And projections for 2021 and 2022, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that a total of 126 MPs voted, 76 were against, 50 were against, so we have brought amendments and additions to the State budget for 2020 and projections for '21. and in '22. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 35. The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent to the amendments and the addition of the financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries for 2020 and the projection of the '21 plans. and in '22. If you agree, I would like to vote on all 10 proposals, so 10 consents united, it is about the financial plans of Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Croatian Roads, then we have the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales, so we have the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, the Financial Plan of the Croatian Autoroads, the Financial Plan of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and the Finance Plan of the HZ-Infrastructure for 2020 and the projections of '21, '22. If we agree, please let us vote on these consents. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 126 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 50 against, have voted, and we have made decisions on granting consent to amendments and amendments to the financial plans as I have proposed. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion which reads: "The HS section is authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the proposings, a revision of the text of amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022, as well as the amendment and addition of the financial plans of the non-financial beneficiaries for 2020 and projections of the plans for the '21st. and 22 years old. before their publication in the People's Journal." Who's to say that? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 120 MPs, 103 for, 6 abstentions and 11 against and the conclusion in the text has been reached as proposed by the Committee on Legislatives. We now move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, second reading, P.Z. No. 50, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, during the debate, by the proposer's representative accepted the amendment. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 127 MPs, 76 for, 2 abstentions and 49 against and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u11485	I thank the Honorable President HS. On behalf of the Party with IP, Smart and GLAS, I am looking for a 30-minute break for additional consultations both in our club and with all other clubs of MPs, and I would like to point out that the decision of the Constitutional Court on which we are now amending Rules of Procedure of 20.10.1920 is an affirmative principle or rule that elected representatives and representatives do not have a binding but representative mandate, which means that, in the exercise of their rights, elected representatives or representatives are not bound by the positions of the party, nor by the positions of the Club of Representatives, and we have the right to express our personal views. One of the personal rights of each representative is also the right to rule. 86. The constitution that says "HS representatives have the right to ask the government of the Republic of Croatia and individual ministers parliamentary issues". Art. 132. The Rules of Procedure of the HS, which we did not take into account at the moment, is also prescribed to determine the quota by which the number of MPs has the right to ask questions to the Government during the current period. That provision of the Rules of Procedure is also unconstitutional and I believe that we should correct the old practice that was clearly followed and previously convened by HS. So, I appeal to all MPs to understand that they accept the interpretation of the Constitutional Court and to understand that the existing provision of the Rules of Procedure is from the Art. 132. Unconstitutional and restricts the right of MPs to ask questions to the Government of the Republic of Croatia during the current hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u11486	Then you'll have to press charges to the Constitutional Court, and then we'll change the current mornings, and then everyone will have to ask questions, and that's going to be very, very difficult. There are some rules and I think they are in accordance with the Constitution, but if you think you don't address the Constitutional Court, today is not the topic. In accordance with current practice, we are not going to take a break now, but we will continue to make a statement, so I repeat again the Final Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the Amendment and Completion of the Rules of Procedure of HS, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed, the amendments were submitted by the IP Party Representatives' Club, Smart and GLAS and the Green-left bloc MPs' Club. We had a statement on the amendments earlier in the session. We will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. First amendment of the Club of Representatives of the IP Party, Smart and GLAS, Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and I ask that we vote on it. Who's in? What now? I'd like to ask the Information Service to inform us about what's going on and why we're not running a traffic light. What? They're coming? I'm asking for a little patience just, I don't know what's going on. ... Please, it means two minutes to restart the app so we'll see, if it works, then we'll vote like this, if not, we'll have to vote manually. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] So, I'd like to ask you to arrange the voters here for this room. Come on, please, now, let's just see if it works or doesn't work. No, it doesn't, it just works for some people, some don't. All right, well, you guys do your job, is that what you're doing now? What does it mean to show results? Yeah, all right. Okay. Yeah, well, it's okay, yeah, so they'll vote, you'll see exactly at the end this result and who voted as well, but you won't be followed by the inclusion and the moment you vote in. Okay. Then let us now go to the vote on the 1st Amendment of the Party Representatives Club with a name, Smart and Glass, I said that the Proposer of the Rules of Procedure, the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure, does not support this amendment, so please let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Can we get the results or not? Can we? So, colleagues and colleagues, now I'm asking that service that's in charge of the vote that, how many people do you need? Three or four? Troy, please make sure the voter stops here, and today we won't use it anymore. So, please, put those competent officers on me to count the votes. Let's see, who's that? Who are the voters? One, two, three, five. Who's counting? Now I'm gonna take a break, give you 10 minutes, don't be mad, but I'm not gonna let this happen. It's 10:00, 15 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.25 HOURS]] So we're going to have to count the votes manually in this room. According to the information I have, it is possible from small hall halls, these salons will be obtained through computers so that we will then have the final sum of what we voted in the Great Hall, the Small Council Hall, Ban Jelačić and in the salons of Ante Starcevic and so on. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u11488	Mr. President, I suggest not for all points, but for the rebalancing vote, of course, that when the results are announced, you publish the results by the halls to track down what some colleagues have been asking for at least for that point, they have some track record of voting as voted by the parties, MPs, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u11489	Tell me, can we get the information for each hall as far as it is, what's the score? ... How come not if you get out of every gym result, how can you not? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it's not working again, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now we have the next option, so we vote in all the halls and phone you on the result. So we'll have for each hall score, and then you'll read, please take the microphone here that you have and read exactly for each hall as the result. So there's no dilemma about the outcome. All right? Are we all set now? Okay. Then we'll start again, we'll vote on Amendment number one. Party representative club with a name, Smart and GLAS. The motioner does not accept that amendment, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? Put your hands where I can see them. Who's for Amendment number one? Is it counted? Who's restrained? And who's against it? You can hear, you might have a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u11490	Well, would it be a good idea if we gave up today's vote, to arrange this system and vote tomorrow?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u11491	We'll see a little bit more, if it keeps up like this we're close and that, yeah. Nothing, like this, we're going to do next, this doesn't make much sense, and I don't want anyone to question the general and whether it's all right and that everything is legitimate and legal, so we're going to take a break of 1 hour, 1 hour, so we're going to continue at 11 o'clock and 30 minutes with the vote. If we don't have a system by then, then we'll move the vote because I don't want anyone to suspect and remain any ugly impression. So we continue at 11 o'clock and 30 minutes. It's 10:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 11:32 A.M.]] I've been informed by the secretariat that all the problems and all the difficulties we've had with our voice count system have been removed so I hope everything will be all right. I apologize to you for these difficulties that we have had, so we are going back to where we left off, which is the first amendment to the Final Proposal of the Rules of Procedure on the Amendment and Completion of the Rules of Procedure of the HS, the amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of the IP Party, Smart and Glass, the Proposer did not accept it. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 113 MPs voted and the MP's proposal did not go through 77 was against, 24 abstentions and 12 were in favour. We're going to the 2nd Amendment now, it's the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, and the promoter doesn't accept it either, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 112 MPs and MPs 34 voted for, four abstentions, 74 against, so the amendment did not receive the required number of votes either. So now we will go to the vote on the final draft of the Rules of Procedure on the amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the HS. The adoption of the Rules of Procedure requires half the majority of all MPs, therefore 76. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that 121 MPs, 113 for, 8 abstentions, have voted, therefore, that the Rules of Procedure on the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the HS in the text as proposed by the Proposer has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12111	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and respected MPs. We're looking for a break on behalf of the House of Homeland Attorneys' Club. Of course also because of consultations with all other parties clubs here in the Parliament, but also to draw the public's attention once again, there, the shameful behaviour of the ruling in connection with the Krsh-Paden corruption affair. To clarify, the rejection of the Interruption is, in fact, a continuation of the concealment and protection of corruption because the already mentioned Interpellation requires an insight into the entire documentation and contracts related to this corruption project that started the former SDP and HNS, and continues today's HDZ and SDSS. The position of the MP club is that, of course, the government will do, that they will do what the government asks them to do. So, according to us, the collapse of the constitutional order, the government is responsible to the Parliament, this is the highest House of the Republic of Croatia, and everyone is obliged to work transparently. It is a shame to continue to protect corruption in this way and to request a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement for 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12112	Thank you. The apartment is approved. There's a colleague named Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12113	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break in front of the club with an indignity we would reject the opposition to the corruption activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this project Krš-Padene. I would like to emphasise what we have already pointed out yesterday during the debate many times. That this project was given the status of a privileged producer of renewable energy at the time of the SDP government or Zoran Milanovic. And not only this project, but also the other 6 project holders also, before the end of 2013, and literally minutes before the new tariff system entered into force, which would reduce the incentive price by 34% to these same electricity producers, thus obtaining the status of a privileged producer. What makes the opposition trying to criminal corruption transfer to the HDZ government is very easy to spread. And this is that of those 7 privileged electricity producers from renewable energy sources, only three received and solved the project in that time. The other four, including this producer, asked HERA, not the government, but HERA for an extension of the deadline because the projects had not yet been completed. And what is the difference between this producer and other producers? What they were changing the project according to the new technologies that were then in place and therefore got the status and extension of the privileged producer status. And by indignity, we reject the fact that the government is preventing the opposition from obtaining documents. Gentlemen, go to the network pages of the appropriate bodies and you'll get all the documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12114	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? If not then, I shall vote Interpelition on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the project WE Krš-Padene. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 129 MPs voted, 51 for, 2 abstentions and 76 against, and thus rejected the interpretation submitted by 20 MPs in HS. We are now going to the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the launch of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative of Domagoj Price. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision to initiate the conduct of the deputy representative of Domagoj Price. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that it is a unanimous 128 votes for the decisions made, as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made this decision, we move on to making an oath of counsel. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Seven. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President read the text of the oath, after which he named the MPs, the appointed representative stands up and pronounces the word ‘I swear’. Now I'm going to read the text of the oath. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work to uphold the Constitution and the law and respect the legal ancestor and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Domagoj Prica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12123	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12124	Congratulations to the representative And I want a lot of success in the conduct of this honorable duty. [[Applause]] Report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Davor Bernardic of the representatives of HS. The debate is closed before the Bauk vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12125	Thank you, Mr. President. Stanka, I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club in order to consult and warn once again about the scandalous and unheard move of the Croatian lottery administration that decided to sue a representative in the Croatian Parliament with state money for something he said in a pre-election campaign in the face-to-face with the Prime Minister on July 3rd 2020. So, to repeat the private prosecutor Croatian lottery, you can see that legal language sometimes dry-cleans a pretty good description of the situation of life. So, private prosecutor state firm. What an absurdity. If the director, the president of the lottery board felt defamed, let him sue with his money, not ours. So, if you want to go to court and prove it, then don't spend state money, spend your money, so if you win, you win, if you don't. It's the easiest thing to do. So, the company pays and then nobody pays anyone. What's next? When someone says something about Croatian roads, then Croatian roads will sue, Croatian forests and so on? So, what's going on right now, and I think the president of the assembly should warn the heads of state companies not to go into political accounts with state money. If you're slandered, okay sue, if you win, if you don't, no. Because what they are, they introduced an offer of Russian roulette from this freedom of speech. So every time we mention a state-owned company, we'll have a gun, full or empty, whether some director remembers suing us with state money. You and your HDZ colleagues can agree on that. So, influence, influence. If that doesn't happen then Bartulica will really be right. So this is going to be worse than Belarus, they're at least directly haunting you, and these are so subtlely through state-owned companies. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12126	Thank you very much. You know we're going to refuse that request ourselves, and we're own to do it, and as far as this other one is concerned, I can't influence it, it's their decision, but I agree with you. If someone is defamed in person, let them defend themselves and I think it should be a practice. Therefore, I am voting on the next decision, during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Davor Bernardic at the request of the private prosecutor of Croatia's lottery d.o.o. from Zagreb on an action brought by the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb on 5 October 2020 for the application of the number K-1880/20 for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penalty law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 128 MPs and MPs, 127 for and 1 abstentions, have voted, and thus a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. We still have a case regarding my colleague, Grumo, and I'd like to ask that the consultations be carried out in accordance with what we last agreed on, and I still don't have any feedback, so I'd like to put this one to the vote afterwards. That's what we came up with at the end of the vote. Now we're going to take a 15-minute break, at 12.25 it continues with the announced agenda points. I thank you all. It's 12.11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12136	It's 12.11 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.26 HOURS]] Let's go with: - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of a multilateral convention on the implementation of measures related to the avoidance of double taxation contracts for the purpose of preventing reduced tax bases and rerouting profits, second reading, P.Z. No 59 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Article 207. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. As the opening statement has been made before you, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a multilateral convention on the implementation of measures related to the avoidance of double taxation contracts for the purpose of preventing reduced tax bases and rerouting profits. As I believe you know, the Republic of Croatia is currently in force and in the application of 66 double taxation contracts. All these contracts, as well as in almost all countries of the world, are based on the model of a contract for the organisation of economic cooperation and development or of the OECD and a smaller work on UN models. So our contracts we have are identical to all contracts that more or less the whole world uses. As certain changes have occurred in global developments in terms of tax base erosion and profit reorientation or better said use of business strategies of companies that have a branched, globalised business often represented around the world and their business strategies are sometimes directed towards this normal way that both tax laws refer to aggressive tax planning, the use of tax gaps and discrepancies in national and international tax rules in order to artificially transfer this profit to places with low tax rates or, yes, to places where it will not be subject to taxation. As a rule, these are countries where such companies have no more significant economic activity or activity, or this work is controversial. Thus, in 2013, the G20 countries, meaning a group of 20 major world economies launched an initiative in this sense that the existing agreements on avoidance of double taxation with all countries of the world using models above all OECD so that they are effective in preventing such behaviours. In this context, the OECD has developed meanings for the G20 initiative of the so-called BEPS Action Plan and the framework for the implementation of the BEPS package. As far as the OECS assessment is concerned, they are true to the will of my court and relatively harsh, currently at the world level in terms of rerouting profits there is a result of annual tax losses between $100 and 240 billion US dollars. In order to adapt international regulations and national rules, therefore, in order for countries and tax jurisdictions to become the creators of international tax regulations again, not only observers and monitors of changes on the international background or the OECD tax scene, in order to redefine international tax rules, to develop this mentioned action plan, consisting of 15 action measures which can be classified in 4 main categories. First, general measures, second measures are related to permanent business units and transfer prices, third measures are contracts to avoid double taxation, which are the subject of this current law. And four measures related to the establishment of transparency of tax-important data. Therefore, in the world, the main use of contracts to avoid double taxation based on this OECD model is also of common interest both from OECD and the G20 countries and other countries of the world to redefine international tax rules or contracts to avoid double taxation in order to adapt them and to implement measures related to double taxation avoidance contracts in order to prevent tax avoidance, improve compliance with international tax rules and create a transparent tax environment. In this respect, the offer by the Republic of Croatia to become a BEPS associate is an expression of the desire of the OECD and the G20 countries to implement the BEPS Action Plan and at the same time implement it at a global and global level. Therefore, it has been offered to all the countries of the world to join this action plan and so far more than 135 countries of the world have participated in this cooperation, including, of course, the Republic of Croatia, which became an associated member on 19 April 2016, and the present proposed legislation has been signed by the Government in Paris on 7 June 2017. What does the implementation of the BEPS action plan mean? To remind you, there are already certain conventions to be used in international dispute resolution mechanisms, so there are procedures for a joint agreement under the double taxation avoidance agreement or the EU arbitration convention on disputes related to transfer prices. '90 90436 convention. on the abolition of double taxation relating to the harmonisation of profits of related enterprises and arbitration between the Republic of Croatia and EU Member States is prescribed by a directive transposed last year, at the end of last year, into our legislative framework through the Law on Tax Disputes Resolution Mechanisms. Otherwise, there were 910 such cases at the EU level when we talked about disputes at EU level based on the latest data available at EU level, and Croatia currently has 18 such disputes. In the meantime, five disputes have been settled since this law was won. In view of the implementation of this BEPS action plan itself, it is important to stress that the implementation itself covers a wider range of actions, this is what I meant by this example, as a package of measures, and this measure itself relating through today's law concerns the completion of contracts on the avoidance of double taxation through the implementation of a multilateral convention. Therefore, in the context of the BEPS action plan itself, they relate to minimum standards, common procedures, further development of international best practice cooperation and analytical reports, perhaps just to highlight in the context of minimum standards they are the core of BEPS implementation, and it is agreed that specific settlement of issues in this part and cases where non-action of certain countries is reflected have negative effects on other countries that have signed contracts. As far as analytical reports are concerned, I will remind you that you may have seen it through the media, that an approach is under way to address the tax challenges of so-called. digital economies and aggressive tax planning at global level, given that companies today use such tools of business where there is no need to have a business establishment or rather the headquarters of this company in a country, and in order to carry out the same activity in that same country. Thus, by passing this law in a fast and efficient way, international tax rules will be amended and the possibility of avoiding tax payments by multinational companies will be reduced. More specifically, the BEPS actions of the action plan are planned to be implemented, as far as 65 contracts on avoidance of double taxation are concerned. Why isn't this 66, too? Because he was signed with Japan after the adoption of this, these multilateral conventions were incorporated into the treaty and the very measures provided for by a multilateral convention. In addition, a number of bilateral negotiations will be avoided for the purpose of amending double taxation contracts, while ensuring consistent application of the BEPS action plan as a consequence of legal certainty and predictability for companies around the world and better functioning of the international legal system. This will also ensure minimum standards as a state. First of all, preventing the abuse of double taxation contracts, then there will be a deep analysis aimed at countering harmful tax practices and ultimately more effective joint bargaining procedures. Technical implementation of the multilateral convention. How is it designed to do that? Therefore, that multilateral convention lays down provisions which are amended or which amend certain provisions covered by double taxation avoidance contracts. So, some of which make up so-called. a minimum standard that must be satisfied while other provisions have an optional character. In order for certain provisions of the multilateral Convention to have legal effect on the example of existing double taxation avoidance contracts, it is above all necessary that both States which have a contract with each other specify each other as States whose contract will be covered by a multilateral convention and agree to apply certain provisions of the multilateral Convention itself. Technically, this means that a single country as a party to the procedure, if it so wishes, may place its reserves in relation to the provisions of the multilateral convention in accordance with the future application of certain provisions of that Convention on certain provisions of an existing double taxation agreement. Therefore, in a simplified manner, the State may veto itself on the provisions of the Convention itself in relation to amendments to the double taxation avoidance treaty, and if it does not veto, then it is understood that the provisions of the multilateral convention itself apply immediately to amendments to the double taxation avoidance agreement. There is a technique to make it just so it's important that I point out that it is important to distinguish whether these double taxation contracts already have or do not have such provisions on the content of the contract that we want to or do not want to veto as a state or any other state that is a signator of the contract. And in that sense, we are obliged to report to the depositary, in this case it is the OECD, which holds with it all those double taxation contracts in terms of the application of the multilateral convention. Therefore, during the signing of the multilateral convention, the Republic of Croatia has provided the depositary with a provisional list of these reserves and notifications and will, when laying down its ratification documents, notify the final list of reserves and the content of which is set out in the Annex to Article 3 of this Act. Similarly, when laying down a ratification document, the Republic of Croatia will announce the reserves to a multilateral convention and the notifications set out in the Annex to this Act. It is important to stress for the sake of the rules, if a reservation is made to a particular provision, so that provision will not apply between the Contracting Parties and will continue to apply the provision or contract on the avoidance of double taxation. Also, the reserves placed may be removed if it is concluded that this would be in the interest of a country in the case of the Republic of Croatia until new reservations can be made afterwards. As far as the provisions here are concerned, we have 10 articles of a multilateral convention which are not fully reserved and which will amend the provisions of international agreements on the avoidance of double taxation if the other party accepts it. These are Articles 3, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12 and 13, 15, 16 and 17. In order for the EU to debate and given the dryness of the legal expression of these norms I would not have you, I would not now with theirs unless, of course, necessary and wished afterwards, I could inform each of you of the details of these provisions. Also on the 7 articles, reservations have been made, so these articles will not apply until they are called off or removed. These are articles 4, 5, 8. Part 14, of Article 16, and the application of binding arbitration has also not been accepted, as I mentioned earlier, since the end of last year, through law related to arbitration within the EU. The application of multilateral conventions by the Republic of Croatia itself is covered by Article 62, as stated by the 65 countries in respect of which this Convention is intended to apply. Of the 65 countries covered by the current statements of other States, the provisions of the Convention will start to apply within the deadlines set out in a multilateral convention with 54 countries. 8 countries are those of Azerbaijan, Belarus, Montenegro, Iran, Kosovo, Moldova, Syria, Turkmenistan, and the three countries have not yet signed a multilateral convention until the three countries have not cited the Republic of Norway, Sweden and Switzerland when ratifying and laying down a ratification document in the OECD as a depositary, and therefore it is likely that bilateral negotiations will need to be joined with them. As regards the very entry into force and application of the standard itself, it is specified in which month and during which period certain provisions are entered into force, which is generally between three and six months from ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12138	We have a few replicas. The first one is Honorable Representative Plasimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12139	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and representatives and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we have one question and two questions. Which are actually budget benefits from this convention that you've exhibited here. This is where you listed some global indicators and some of the things that are visible on OECD pages. But what we would specifically ask you is a concrete benefit for the RS budget in terms of paying the taxes of multinational companies on our territory. And question number two. Does this convention also apply to the United States since we know that a double taxation agreement with the United States is at least something we're going to discuss in the very, very near future? There he is, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12140	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12141	Thank you very much for asking. As regards the first issues and revenues that can be expected, they first and foremost stem from the interpretation of the provisions of the Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation and thematics, which would potentially affect such corporations in the Republic of Croatia or the Republic of Croatia in some other areas, which would be more tax-friendly than the situation in the Republic of Croatia. This could only be more hypothetically speaking such cases, but I can say that currently in the Republic of Croatia around 700 companies are large taxpayers. Three such obligors have the character of international corporations that I could place in your inquiry and I believe that their business is being controlled clearly enough by the existing norm, but of course the completion of the contract will be where and where better. As far as the US is concerned, they are contained in the Treaties to avoid double taxation to all other countries, and currently there are contracts for avoidance and with them by the Republic of Croatia and the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12142	Next replica, distinguished representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Secretary of State, the question is a second question from the previous Mr. Troscott. We know that at its session on September 30th, the government made a decision to launch a convention procedure with the United States, so I'm curious as to how far we've arrived in this whole process, whether anything has been done and whether you can somehow know a term for signing with the United States of America of that convention. And is the U.S. acceding to this multilateral convention that we are now bringing here? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12144	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12145	Thank you very much. As far as this question of yours is concerned, here is a colleague of Dalibor Legac who directly participates in negotiations with the American side. The term plan was agreed with them. The intention is to complete the negotiations within the meaning of all the items of the contract by the end of the year, but because of the current elections we have, which were in the United States, some steps have moved a little. But we believe we'll be able to finish those deadlines. As far as the United States is concerned, they're always as you know they were always talking to themselves. Of course they also have their Double Taxation Contracts based on OECD models. But the signer isn't yet. It's not signed. The U.S. hasn't signed yet, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12146	The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12147	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, let me ask you as a layman what are the ways in which tax payments are avoided by multinational companies, or what they do precisely to avoid paying taxes. First question. And secondly, whether or not the banks operating in the Republic of Croatia are owned by one part of such multinational companies, that is, how they are viewed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12148	Thank you very much for asking. So, let's get that Stigma out of here right now. It's not the very synonym of a multinational company that means that it doesn't want to pay taxes, but it's legitimately the right for everyone to find within the legal norm an opportunity to operate as successfully as possible with as little giving as possible. So, using those instruments when you go through so-called. aggressive tax planning that has already entered us into the legal framework and through the general tax law and other regulations at EU level, including judgments by courts, for example, Halifax judgments published on the Tax Administration website, give us frameworks precisely in the context of how you view this topic now opened, which means that certain benefits are used which are not intended for such a business or such a company, and then the contract which, otherwise, all the obligations resulting from this contract is concluded formally in a third country, and in fact everything is going on in another country, so that in this way the real job or aggressive tax planning is covered up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12149	The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12150	Thank you. Each international agreement, each multilateral agreement by nature, falls within the area of foreign policy. Again, in this HS, I point out one and the same objection and remark, which is that the Republic of Croatia does not have an external policy and that this body, which is also a constitutional creator, ignores the fact that the executive authority, or two branches of the executive authority, the President of the State, on the one hand, of the other part, does not adhere to their constitution of the powers, obligations and restrictions. Art. 99. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia is clearly prescribed that the president of the state and government co-operate and co-create foreign policy. So they cooperate in both design and conduct. In no document that I have had the opportunity to read since I was an MP in HS, I have not seen that in foreign policy matters, the president of the country is mentioned in one single word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12151	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12152	Yes, thank you very much. What you've just said I can only comment that all the articles you've listed are in place and what you're presenting in the context of cooperation, etc., I can't comment, I didn't take part in it. However, as regards the agreement on the avoidance of double taxation and the whole of that strategy of the Republic of Croatia from independence to date, it has been coordinated at the level of this Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the provisions of those Treaties are generally in line with the vast majority and other contracts applied by the countries of the world. So, the conduct of foreign policy, of course, is on those bodies that are in charge of the constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12153	Thank you. No more replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12155	We have a debate on clubs, the first to come forward was the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12156	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished MPs and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. Politically... has here given one, one legal actually framework, one context of this convention, which is actually based on the double taxation agreements that Croatia has signed with 65 countries around the world. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This debate would even focus because it is highly linked to these Double Taxation Treatys, extended in fact to countries considered by the Most Club that Croatia should have a Double Taxation Treaty, and in fact there is no. And I would divide this debate into three points. In the first point, I would focus more on, so I looked at the G20 countries, which are the initiators themselves, so these, these, these conventions, and I saw that on that list stands Argentina, Brazil and Mexico and that we unfortunately do not have a Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation with them. On the other hand, the only contract we have signed that's not on the G20 list is Chile. However, this... For, for, for the purposes of this debate, the first three countries that I mentioned, so Argentina, Brazil and Mexico, because every country that is market-oriented and thinks about developing its economy should certainly take care to sign contracts with those 3 countries that are giants of Latin America. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's actually an indication of not signing these contracts from those three countries is something that is, I'd actually be referring to Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic and the great lack of our foreign policy so that we do not develop one economic diplomacy from the 3 countries and, in fact, the tax on policies or the non-contracting of the 3 countries... show that we do not actually have any economic strategy towards Latin America as Croatia, and we believe as a club MOST that this is an extremely important market for the Republic of Croatia, especially for the fact, because 400,000 of our Croats live in Argentina is almost amazing that we do not have a contract with that country, and that Argentina does not have an embassy in Zagreb in the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why am I saying that? For the reasons that Ireland and Israel were examples of countries that had just their own economic growth based on, in relation to the diaspora or, with the Israelis and the Irish living outside Ireland and Israel, and that helped those countries to grow economically. And these tax gaps, or economic trade gaps, are indicators that we don't have that strategy. Point two I'd like to touch here which I also think is equally important is Africa. We saw it in the 3rd month of 2020. that the European Commission has come out with a strategy towards Africa as a future trading partner and have listed 5 pillars of the most important through which they think to create a strategy. And then it's over, we have a signed contract with the South African Republic on the G20 list. But what's quite interesting is that we don't have signed contracts with, say, one Angola and one Egypt, and these are exactly the countries where our INA has 6 wells in total, where we have 4 wells in Egypt and 2 wells in Angola, with wells in Angola almost to the end exhausted, so only Egypt remains. And unfortunately, we don't see any INA policy or MOL policy towards new concessions in Egypt. Or what I want to point here, so with tax policies, so with tax failures to sign such agreements on avoidance of double taxation, for example with Angola and Egypt, we have shown strategically that we do not have any energy, so we have no claim against Africa, which is odd if the whole EU lists Africa as a new future partner of trade, taxes, etc. I think it's very important to watch what we're going to be... what kind of energy production we will be, which is just along the way according to the reports... so oil production that we then import from these countries from Croatia and export further to further markets. [[You don't understand.]] And the third point I'd like to touch here is Asia. I've been reviewing all the contracts we signed on avoiding double taxation around the world. So, especially in Asia, and I was almost frustrated by the fact that Croatia has not signed a contract with one Singapore, which today is one financial, economic and legal centre and not only Southeast Asia, but also the whole of Asia. And all countries that want to be market-oriented, and we say it all the time, at least in rhetoric, except by focusing on the big markets of Mexico, Brazil and Argentina, or Latin America, except that, according to strategies like the European Union, they are also directed towards Africa. And Singapore, if it is not in our strategy of countries with which we should sign a double taxation agreement, and then, consistently, this convention that we are discussing today, then I don't think we have anything to look for at all in Asia, or it's an additional argument that Croatia is unfortunately neither foreign policy nor tax, nor economics has any strategy, either according to Latin America, nor Africa, nor Asia, for example, through Singapore. And if we didn't do it then these conventions that are... The very expansion of the contracts that we have signed to avoid double taxation of purely formality and a clean inflation of additional legal acts that simply as such do not make sense. [[You don't understand.]] And what I would like to complete this debate with, so if we continue this way, no central bank around the world will be able to prevent price inflation because it is their task including our CNBs, but it will not be able to prevent the inflation of these legal acts and conventions that we hold here in the Croatian Parliament, and without some serious strategic and economic substance behind these laws that we are voting here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12157	Thank you. Now we'd move on to a standoff because it's 1 o'clock, 13 o'clock. Here, since it's not 13 o'clock yet, Mr. Honorable Representative Dretar, please go to 13 because there's no co-worker to make sure we don't damage her, so you do. Then we'll take your stand after you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12158	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a short and clear one. There's really no time to waste around this. Short and clear. The risk of double taxation arises when two countries have the right to tax your income. Let's say that if someone lives in one Member State and works in another Member State, in case they're referred to shorter work abroad or living, and they're looking for a job abroad or if someone's retired in one country and they're receiving a pension from another in which case my fellow citizens always apply tax rules to you, but you might have to pay taxes in another country. That is why most countries have such contracts to avoid double taxation. This multilateral convention is the result of government efforts around the world which have noticed that they are losing significant revenue from corporate taxation due to aggressive international tax planning which has the effect of artificial profit rerouting to locations where businesses are not subject to taxation or subject to taxation at reduced amounts or at reduced rates which Mr. Secretary of State has explained to us here. It also seeks to ensure that existing contracts to avoid double taxation of income are interpreted in such a way as to eliminate double taxation in respect of taxes covered by these contracts and without creating opportunities for non-taxation or reduced taxation through evasion or tax avoidance. These are therefore international agreements concluded by the countries in order to avoid double tax payments and on the same basis. The rights of the Contracting States to fully or partially tax certain revenue are also laid down, laying down rules for the resolution of the status of their taxpayers, tax sources and rates. There are also ways to exchange data between tax administrations and conditions for a more favourable exchange of goods, services, work and capital. The purpose is of course, once again, to prevent tax evasion and avoid paying taxes whether it is a miscalculation of transfer prices or some other kind of avoidance of payments. Since double taxation is the most harmful to investors, avoidance agreements are an important tool to protect investors and direct foreign investment. The additional reason for this step is also the fact that the current situation encourages companies on both sides to operate through branches registered in other countries, which means additional financial expenditure. The agreement would bring greater and cheaper transfer of knowledge and experience especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and companies in the IT sector, and ultimately better tax treatment for nationals of other countries working, staying or owning real estate in Croatia. In this bill of law, the Homeland Movement finds absolutely nothing controversial, so we will support it. Allow the esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues just for a moment to get out of the agenda and go into the sphere of life-saving of all of us, to ask you once again, on behalf of the Homeland Movement, for the first time, to congratulate everyone on the holiday of St. Martin, and for those who will celebrate him, to ask him to celebrate him in as little numbers as possible without large gatherings and not to sit behind the wheel. Take care of your life and other people's lives. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12160	We are going forward with the debate on the law on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of a multilateral convention on the implementation of measures related to double taxation avoidance contracts for the purpose of preventing tax base reduction and profit reorientation. Mr. Marin Mandaric will speak for HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, state secretary respected. At first, I would like to say that the HDZ Club intends to support the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a multilateral convention on the implementation of measures related to double taxation avoidance contracts for the purpose of preventing tax base reduction and profit reorientation. We will support this legislative proposal and any other which will, of course, contribute to the future reduction and the repression of tax ejaculation, which is not only a Croatian problem but also a global problem, and this law is in the direction of reducing tax ejaculation. If we want to be a global player, and here we are on this global market in a global game then we must, of course, co-operate with our global partners, confirming this convention is actually a step in this direction. We've heard additionally... a multiple convention additionally some things to define on these 65 contracts that we have so far concluded to avoid double funding with countries. We've heard something about the presentation of the motions regarding the conclusion of a double-financing agreement with the United States, of course the largest and most important economy in the world, okay, maybe China or America is now less important to say the most important economy in the world. Of course it's very important for all our entrepreneurs to work with the United States to conclude that contract. It seems to me somewhere I read, 25 years ago it started working on it and I only hope that now changes in the leadership of the United States that the new administration will look favorably at this initiative to conclude a double taxation agreement with Croatia. We also heard in the exhibitions that Croatia has an insufficient number of countries contracted that it needs to make a contract with some other countries. I know that the initiative has also gone towards some Latin American countries, so I believe that perhaps even as part of the final word, the promoter might further explain to whom the double taxation agreement was being concluded, and as far as the question of Egypt is concerned, I know that and I think that Croatia has ratified such an agreement on our part, but it is never on the other hand. So much for the HDZ Club, we imitate this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12162	And Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic will speak on behalf of the IP, Smart and GLAS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12163	Re-respected presidents, fellow MPs and MPs. If someone asked me what really bothers me the most about HS's work, I'd say it's one established practice and behavior and the way in which HS acts as if it's on autopilot. Sometimes individual laws, certain normative acts are adopted without even considering what is the constitutional basis for their adoption and whether the basic condition of constitutionality and legality is met at all, even now when it comes to confirming this final proposal of the Law confirming the multilateral convention. As I have already said, every multilateral convention falls partly within the area of international or foreign policy. There are provisions of the Constitution that say that this foreign policy should be defined and there is a fact that since the 2000 amendments to the Constitution. We don't respect the constitutional design we imagined. So, since 2000. The role of the President of the State in the field of foreign policy has not been applied and is not used as prescribed by the Constitution, but that does not mean that it is only the President of the State that violates its constitutional obligations and responsibilities. The government breaks them in the same way together with him. Respect for the constitution, in particular, by the holders of the highest levels of state authority, is a prerequisite for establishing justice. There is no rule of law, there is no state in the full and legal sense of that word unless it has the responsibility of all state authorities to behave in accordance with what is precisely prescribed, defined and defined for that level. And that's exactly the kind of responsibility both legal and political in our state practice. It states in the constitution that the rule of law is one of the highest constitutional values, so it implies respect for the constitution, as well as constitutionally envisaged and the constitution of the imagined relationship between the president of the state and the government in the area of co-creation of foreign policy. And political practice as regards the existing so-called claim the cohabitations between the current president of the state and the current government, but so on and in all previous combinations continuously violates and ignores the provision of art. 99. The Constitution of the The current assembly of HS must show that it is ready by law to elaborate the process of co-creation of foreign policy. In order to finally put an end to this practice in which executives in a section defined or at least should define our foreign policy show negligence, ignoring and violating their constitutional obligations. How can we expect our citizens to respect all the great measures, very often excessively restrictive, nebulous, ad hoc designs from today to tomorrow, and we allow the highest holders of state authorities, the president of the state on the one hand and the government on the other hand to behave however they wish, not to meet their obligations simply because it is easier for them? But the comfortable and overly comfortable is the HS who is aware of it, and he keeps ignoring it. For this speaker, current Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic confirmed my findings, my remark that we do not respect the constitution even in the provision of Article. The 144th century 5, which speaks of the fact that the Republic of Croatia, in the Council and in the European Council, is represented and represented by the President of State and Government in accordance with their respective powers. It has never happened that in these bodies the Republic of Croatia is represented by the president of the state, partly by Zoran Milanovic himself, when he was Prime Minister, he passed the Law on the Cooperation of HS and Government in European Affairs, so-called. Lex Ivo Josipovic, whom he removed from the intervention of the then president of the state into one part of foreign policy because that was the case at the time, but this HS, not in this assembly, but in that time, is responsible for agreeing to it, and each of the following is responsible for not changing the existing bad practice. We're all aware that corruption is the biggest problem, we know that it's systemic, so what does that mean? That means we have to change the system. Or corruption isn't just a theft that we most often bring down, corruption is one mental state, the mentality that allows the authorities, the more she's in senior positions, the more powerful she is, the more untouchable she is, to create herself a system of rules that she will behave by. So that's the first thing to insist on. If we want to root out corruption on the last counter of some public body administration, catastra, whatever you want, police stations, bribes for 100 kunas of the weight of any violation, then we need to start with those most powerful, of the highest levels of government. Yesterday we were just talking about corruption, about one corruption affair, and the entire opposition agreed that because of one corrupt guess in the case of the wind power plant Krsh-Paden, this government was politically responsible, if not criminally legal. This criminal law will obviously never be welcomed thanks to the subject I spoke of in free speech. But because of everything that we said yesterday in the opposition on both the left and the right of the political spectrum, and so do we from the center itself, I think that we have committed ourselves to our citizens, to the voters, to this country in a legal sense at last. This includes, among other things, insisting on constitutional provisions in this particular topic, which I am now talking about as hard, tiring, unimportant or far from the real problems that are causing our citizens right now. Yes, they are completely different, existential problems, but they are only consequences, they are a derivation according to the system of combined vessels of the basic problem of this country, which is that there is no responsibility of the government because there are no institutions that are brave enough, determined enough to insist on respecting norms such as they are, and if we consider that the current constitutional, constitutional relationship between the president of the state and the president of the government is bad enough then it is high time to say it loudly and that this body that has the mandate to change that at last, but this silence that continues from one normative act to another is personally unacceptable to me. Finally, where institutions cannot control power, we cannot expect citizens to control them, by the more their foreign policy themes are distant and foreign, and where the government cannot control neither democracy nor fundamental democratic principles. Well, that's what this country has fallen for. Thank the HDZ for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12164	We're closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions come to an end, and I got it right. We move to the next item of the agenda. 12. - Final proposal of the Foreign Law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 12. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law and amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative, Internal Policy and National Security and for work, pension system and social partnership. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Zarko Katic is with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12167	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. Let me give you the basic emphasis from the final proposal of the Foreign Law. At the second meeting of HS, a conclusion was reached which adopted the proposal of the Law on Foreigners sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and proposed adoption, i.e. a reference to the parliamentary procedure of the final draft law. Since the law is quite extensive, although matter that regulates the stay of citizens of European economic space was removed from it last year, it remains very strong and large. When this law, we talk about it, is often garbage with the mind that it is actually an immigration law, an immigration law that provides the basis and possibility for the Republic of Croatia as a state with its institutions, but also with its entrepreneurs, who need labour, to allow foreigners to arrive. Arrivals can be made possible in other ways, such as schooling. Perhaps this country does not use the possibility of its higher universities to attract students or scientific institutions to attract scientific researchers, in any case coming is possible for the purpose of family integration, that, when a Croatian citizen or stranger who has a legitimate residence here, it can therefore, under legal conditions, bring his or her spouse or children or a certain other family. The debate in this house and on the working bodies, on the occasion of the first reading, established the need to supplement the final draft law in this very sense and is prescribed in the provision of Article. 246. that HS will establish the principles on a proposal from the Government, that is, the framework for the implementation of a comprehensive immigration policy for a period of at least 5 years. On the basis of these principles and current demographic, economic and social conditions, the government will decide on the number, standards and conditions for the immigration of third-country nationals for each calendar year. The need for the introduction of such a provision, so other than the parliamentary representatives and the working bodies of this house, has also been pointed out by the Economic Social Council at a session held on 10 September of this year on the occasion of the completion of the draft law. After each census, the Republic of Croatia has an increasing population population. Partly as a consequence of a smaller number of people born than the dead, but also as a result of still more eviction than immigration. Although we must point out that in the past four years, labour immigration has been growing significantly, I will say something about it later, but you are well aware of it. Currently, most foreigners in the Republic come for work. In the past year, 72,479 third-country nationals arrived. To a lesser extent, 7,805 people came into the family reunion last year. So, we're talking about family mergers with Croatian citizens and foreigners who have a temporary or permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately a lot less came to study, about 400 people, scientific research and any other law-finded purpose. So, the largest pulse factor for work, for Croatia's arrival and working in the economy, the masha private sector, which is certainly positive, however, by leaving a quota system that currently and which should no longer be worth more than January 1st next year, could occur and public sector employment of foreigners, for example, staff in health or social care, which, as you know, is increasingly missing. Also in Croatia, there are still too few foreigners who are self-employed, such as craftsmen or small or medium-sized entrepreneurs. The conditions for this, according to the motionor, are not strict, so they are not themselves the formal conditions of this. Under current law, and according to the new, final bill, Art. 113, in order for someone to get a license to stay and work as a self-employed person should therefore have a craft or a established company, with an entry, 200 thousand, minimum kuna capital, to employ 3 Croatian citizens to pay at least the average salary and his own salary, so that the self-employed person of that third-country national should not be less than 1.5 average monthly salary paid in the Republic of Croatia. However, only 92 and more were issued last year for the free professions of 210 work permits. Why think and expand this framework for immigration policy? When an employer looks for a foreign worker then most often hires because he develops his work in economically developed areas or with us and tourist regions, then the workers could not in the first two years as they came on the basis of the quota to bring the family it is reduced now to a year, so after a year of stay they will be able to bring the family, which is a reasonable time when a person can at least minimally manage. They rarely live in collective accommodation, often construction workers and also in tourism and catering because they do such jobs where it is difficult to be tied to the job for a long time. So there's usually no room for family life in that space. Croatia is increasingly lacking in immigration consisting of families that will inhale life in smaller rural areas and settlements that can no longer care about the basic needs of people who currently live in these areas, such as some municipal services, care for the elderly and the powerless, etc. The applicant therefore considers it necessary to have a tool to prescribe criteria and conditions for the immigration of the number of foreigners with special knowledge and competences that will give further momentum to the economy as well as revitalisation of war and the white plague of the affected areas. More and more municipalities and cities, therefore the mayor and the mayor also sees that it is necessary and is ready to engage in concrete and quality measures of demographic development in their fields. Although the provision of that article does. 246 may act as a kind of quota after the quota, so we had a quota for workers, it could enable HS and the Government to manage legal migration effectively, enable employers to hire a foreign worker when and if there is no domestic and bring back dead capital in the demographically threatened areas of our country. You are equally aware that six weeks ago, the European Commission sent Member States communication on the Migration and Asylum Pact, from which it is equally clear that Member States should place more emphasis on legal migration as an equally important element in the management of migration with the protection of borders, asylum return procedures for those who have entered or have been rejected in the process of international protection with a double function. In this way, sustainable legal pathways are supported for those who need protection, migration, but are now placed on other innovative legal ways of arrival, but also in terms of strengthening cooperation with third countries, and seek to attract talent as much as possible, so people with special skills and competences in the EU in terms of meeting the needs of the labour market, but also demographic challenges. Safe channels to protect the needy are deterred from the potential of economic migrants from dangerous travel to Europe and solidarity is demonstrated with countries receiving refugees. Legal migration can be inconsistencies for our economy and society as a whole. Although Member States retain the right to determine, of course, how much they will accept the persons coming from third countries to seek work and which persons will be in the EU's common migration policy should take care of the integration of the Union's economy and the interdependence of the Member States' labour market. This is why EU policies should encourage equal conditions between national labour markets as destinations for migration. They should help Member States take advantage of EU membership in this case and attract talented and innovative workers. The EU in the Pact on Migration and Asylum stresses itself that more needs to be done in order to increase the EU's impact on demographic and migration challenges that the Union is facing and is also planning a debate on the future of legal migration as well as a consultation with the public concerned. In addition, legislative changes are also proposed in the existing EU acquis of legal migration, and all to boost the attractiveness of talented persons in the EU. In this respect, the national and migration policy would serve as a kind of indicator of the positioning of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the role that the European Commission puts before legal migration, with the current interest of the Republic of Croatia, of course, in the first step. Here are now the pieces of concrete amendments to the laws that are most important and abundant and on which the emphasis has been placed on these legislative changes. Compared to the current Foreign Law, the amendments primarily relate to a new model of employment of third-country nationals, which the applicant considers to be more appropriate for the labour market in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will no longer make a decision on the establishment of annual quotas for the employment of foreigners, but employers will turn to HZZ to carry out a labour market test, thus using those of their usual methods of finding workers and intermediation in employment. The HZZ labour market test must be carried out within 15 working days. In the event of the failure of finding a domestic worker or worker meeting the requirements of the employer, employers shall submit a request for the authorisation to stay and work for a specific foreigner to the MUP. It will, in turn, request an opinion from the HZZ on the employment of a specific foreigner with a domestic employer. The application for authorisation for stay and work shall be subject to resolution within 15 days during which the HZZ opinion must be obtained, and shall carry out the prescribed checks, such as criminal and criminal records, as well as records of a possible ban on entry into the Republic of Croatia and the EU, shall request and receive an opinion from the SOA. In doing so, the Ministry of Labour and HZZ will have a digital platform to exchange all this information, so there will be no slaughter of paper documents between them. We believe that in this sense these deadlines will be able to be respected and that the employer will be given a worker in due time. Compared to the draft law in the final proposal, the law has been amended or corrected in the following, primarily when it comes to the employment of foreigners. In the process of issuing the residence and work permit, instead of applying the Labour Treaty or written certificate of completed work or other relevant evidence, this final proposal of the law is now prescribed exclusively by the Labour Treaty in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Act. So there can't be some other document and that, this was adopted to look for union centres within the GSV. The employer will also have to prove that a third-country national meets the conditions he previously requested when conducting a labour market test. So, in order not to test the labour market, it would require, for example, stricter conditions, and then when it goes specifically to ask for a work permit to say that these conditions can be much lighter, so that it lowers the level of education, qualifications, work experience or other conditions that the employer may require. The procedure will be more detailedly prescribed by the regulation that will be adopted by the Minister of Labour and at the end of the period of implementation of the labour market test which was in, in the proposal of the law 180 days, the time for which the labour market test is valid was reduced to 90 days, so it was agreed among the social partners that the situation would not change significantly in that time. We had, for example, this year because of the crown return of our people who worked in other countries, they came back here, many of them are in shipbuilding, shipbuilding, shipboaters, chefs, waiters, so if the labour market test is worth longer then they are generally excluded from the possibility of including that job in the Republic or employer can take a stranger in that case. Certain conditions have been stressed for the employer that he must therefore carry out economic activity in the Republic of Croatia in the activity he registered in the country, cannot serve only the hiring of foreigners as some sort of transfer to other countries by regulations, according to the Law on Posting Workers, which, if I am not mistaken, you also had here at the hearing yesterday. Therefore, it must not, of course, be legally convicted of criminal offences in the field of labour relations and social security and must fulfil the condition of subordinated obligations on the basis of public administration. In this law it is equally possible for a seasonal worker to have a foreigner, so during the conduct of the procedure of granting a new permit for stay and work, if he worked 15 days on grape harvest, then he wants to read the Mandarin for another 15 days, so that he can continue to work until the process is over because they are usually short-term, the harvest would collapse if we were to wait for all of this. Finally, it is proposed that the law enter into force on 1 January, I said that, for next year, a new decision on the labour permit quota should not be made and that we can apply this new model of employment as soon as possible for third-country nationals. We are also accompanied by one amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. In 240, which we accept on behalf of the promoter, it is primarily of nomotechnical nature. These few more seconds until, by the end of this time, I would only point out that, in spite of the rather challenging operating times to date, 58906 residence and work permits were issued, so these are foreigners who came to work here, of which 57495 from the quota and 1411 out of the quota. New employment is covered by 39907 permits, and for extension 16076 and for seasonal employment 2923. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12168	Thank you too, don't go, you have a straight nine replicas. The first line was requested by Mr. Lerotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12169	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, here is the part of the temporary stay Article 57. You mention the digital nomads we definitely support, but there is a legitimate concern that their stay here because they came here to work, so they are entrepreneurs or employees who use the most frequently digital formats to be able to find themselves in a privileged position compared to our workers who live here, work and pay taxes. So I'm wondering how you plan to regulate it, and we're going to submit an amendment on behalf of the IDS Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12170	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12171	Dear Mr. Representative, it is predicted to regulate for the first time and stay of that category of third-country nationals. So these are always third-country nationals, not EU citizens or European economic space. They, primarily they come I would say stay, along the way and work and they must therefore be able to do so through digital platforms. They must not be employed in, for, with an employer in the Republic of Croatia, so they must be self-employed or for an employer established in another country. They can stay that way for a year, and if they want to go out on the same basis, and only after 6 months could they regulate a new stay on that basis, but if, for example, they are employed by a Croatian citizen, marry, marry or any other basis, then they can immediately continue to stay. So there is no danger that they could affect the Croatian labour market. We can benefit from them in terms of promiscuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12172	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark Taritash has arrived from another hall, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12173	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, in this document that we have in our second reading, you have introduced a new chapter of 16 immigration policy and Article 246 which requires the Assembly to adopt measures or principles of immigration policy, and that the Government will then determine for each year the number of criteria and conditions for the immigration of third-country nationals. So there are two problems. One problem is we don't mind and I have to take some measures and principles related to immigration policy, but this should be adopted within the framework of development policy or development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. But on the one hand, you've decided that we don't have any more quotas, and on the other hand, it's prescribed here, so for each year, the government will make a decision on the number, scale and conditions for the immigration of third-country countries. That's what we're reading. That's where you shut down, and that's where you reintroduce it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12174	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12175	As I said to the respected lady MPs, it may seem to someone that it would be some kind of quota outside the quota, it's not any formal quota. Employers will decide for themselves who they will hire in accordance with the Croatian labour market, and each responsible state should take care to make it possible for citizens to live in its territory. If we cannot do so with our citizens or citizens of the European Economic Area, we should be open to receiving those who can work with us, who can create and make life easier for our citizens, especially in demographically devastationed areas. These are unfortunately relatively numerous, large areas that died in the war, many people have moved out of them, but many more distant Croatian islands where there are insufficient people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12176	Thank you, thank you very much. Mrs. Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12177	Thank you. Two questions I would like to ask you, one also regarding digital nomads, you answered your colleague, Lerotić, earlier that they were scheduled to have a maximum possible stay in the country for up to a year. As far as I understand the intensity of this part, this part of the law, these people here would be tax-free. However, our tax laws argue that one who stays for more than 183 days in the territory of the Croatian State becomes a taxpayer of the Croatian tax system, so I am interested in how this part will be regulated and another thing is about the existence of international associations to exchange students in the territory of the Republic of Croatia who operate within our universities, who are doing exchange programs that are not covered by Erasmus or anything similar but are trainee exchanges, which means that a foreign student has a traineeship in the Republic of Croatia in some of our companies on the basis of which some of our students may have the same thing in a foreign country. However, Article 125 of this Law requires that this be regulated by a legal relationship, you are my own answer to the committee when it has been discussed that this is most often understood by a working relationship and a working contract which makes it difficult for such practice programmes. Is that possible to regulate some other legal relationship? which is not a work contract. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12178	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12179	Thank you very much. Dear Madam MPs, we hold that we are, by this law, staying so-called. digital nomads in a relatively short time well and quality solved, if I don't want these people too big, too much obligation to deliver a bunch of documents, but of course we have to determine who it is, that people are not at risk and that they can be financed here by the means they make. As far as their tax residence is concerned, it will be established by the laws governing that activity and they will have to take care of whether they remain for more than 183 days and which country will then be obliged to pay the tax. As for this second issue of yours, the Republic of Croatia has done much to attract young people, to make young people more mobility [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12180	You can finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12181	...and so are the students, but volunteers and people who are on the student exchange. In that sense, we have also concluded a series of bilateral agreements with other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12182	Thank you, thank you very much. Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12183	Here, good afternoon. So what we claimed yesterday on the Labour Committee would have been repeated firstly would have been repeated, meaning the abolition of quotas and the liberalisation of labour force imports is not positively assessed by the union. The unions gave their assessment, it is negative that this law goes hand in hand to entrepreneurs and not to those entrepreneurs who cannot pay more labour than just those who can pay, but do not want to pay more labour costs in the building where our people go out to work, and we import from BiH, Serbia and Macedonia labour. The other thing we've found, the double criterion we had is a reference law where the rich countries of the centre protect the price of their labour force by determining the criteria, we didn't do it here. Just two operational questions, why do we have a 25% condition for workers from Croatia or the European Economic Area not 50%, I guess we can find so much labour within the EU? And secondly, why is the fee for published work not guaranteed to a foreign worker at the level of the average salary in the branch in which the foreign worker came to do the work? That's how they'd rephrase that bill of reference.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12184	Thank you, I have to interrupt. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12185	Thank you very much. The labour market has not been liberalised, so foreign employment will depend more on the state of the labour market. It will not depend on whether someone planned well next year, whether someone failed or operated more successfully in the following year, so in the specific time it is now set at 90 days for which the labour market test is carried out, if a certain worker has in the Republic of Croatia in that area office or wants to come from another region of the Republic of Croatia to work he will get a job before a stranger, if he does not have a job will be a foreign citizen. Here you confused two laws, yesterday there was a Law on posted workers and it was regulated by a directive and regulated by the work between the countries of the European Economic Area. The work of third-country nationals in Croatia is regulated by our regulations and regulations apply equally to Croatian and foreign workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12186	Thank you very much. Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12187	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. These opening words of yours show that the government has respected a good part of those remarks made here during the first reading or by the social partners. I would especially like to highlight this new article here. It is 246, which allows the Parliament to establish, on a proposal from the Government, the principles for the implementation of a comprehensive migration policy and then the government's annual decisions on the number and the criteria and conditions for the immigration of third-country nationals. In this way, it seems to me that the government and, of course, HS are particularly managing the migration process, we do not close our eyes to this process but rather want to manage it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12188	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12189	Your Honor, that's exactly what I'm saying. You can always not look at certain processes, bury your head in the sand or pretend like they're not happening. This is a hot apple or a hot potato that needs to be bitten, but we'll do it best if we know where we are, what we are and where we should go. No one will call in the Republic of Croatia the people we don't want and who we don't need, but I think we can find a good balance between the needs of the Republic of Croatia and the educated, qualified innovative workers that Croatia can get. That is why there are also grounds in the current law through the EU Blue Card Directive, but we will also provide additional frameworks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12190	Thank you. Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12191	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state with their associates. I find the law thorough, clear and accurate. Among other things, the reasoning states that it is in line with over 20 existing laws, a series of regulations and regulations, EU directives and, of course, with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In your discussion, you stressed that a meeting of the Economic and Social Council was held at the 9th month, so if you can say a word about this body, who does everything and how have decisions been made there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12192	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12193	Dear Mr Strick, that immediately several days of debate on the proposal for a law on foreigners was held a session of the Economic and Social Council, where the representatives of social partners were therefore workers, trade unions, employers and government at the highest level, so they were all ministers of the resolution ministries who were members of the GSV. The law is presented to all partners, there have been some questions and points to certain possible improvements, and most of them all such proposals have been accepted. I can say that there was a very respectful atmosphere and it was difficult sometimes to tell whether a representative of the employers or a representative of the union spoke. There have been some misunderstandings, however, but it is required to introduce a provision on immigration policy, it has been accepted, and I think that the views are in line to the greatest extent possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12194	Thank you very much. Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12195	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State. I would refer to those battles that you yourself know we fought together, which is in this part, which is in this part of the tourism, where it is in the case of 2019 and the comparison of '18-19. It's the very problem of foreign workers that's been talked about a lot in the Parliament, but also outside. Whether or not we needed it as a data in 2019 we had about 20,000 foreign workers at one point we were looking at the domestic market, so among our people, we came to a figure to eventually exhaust 4000, so without those 15-20 000 workers on the outside, it would not be possible to do the 2019 season in which investments were over EUR 1 billion. I therefore thank you for all these remarks and for all that you had, taken into account the possibility that there will be a similar problem again soon, and unfortunately there will be no such problem on our domestic market.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12196	Thank you. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12197	Dear Mr. Cappelli, I think I can agree with your findings and say that foreign workers along with domestic and employers have, of course, managed to bring forth the most successful season last year. Last year, 21294 permits to stay and work in this activity were issued in catering and tourism. This year, unfortunately, because of the general situation in the first 10 months, 10406 was issued, so the final balance will probably be about 50% of the permits issued in the past year, but that is approximately, will probably be similar and, and the results in tourism and hospitality, unfortunately. While construction will have, for example, already reached the number of licenses issued last year, it will be much higher by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12198	Thank you and now two last MPs will have their own replica of video, Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12199	Honorable Vice President HS and the Honorable Secretary of State. Here are two questions, before this bill that you have put out here today, have you done perhaps an analysis of how many unemployed people have been reported in Croatia on HZZ, which is parallel to receiving social assistance and working in the gray economy, thus jeopardising all honest people who want to earn their salary fairly? So, have you done such analyses before you passed this law and if it is nice, would you please share it with us? And secondly, have you made a strategy for retraining Croatian citizens who might want to, say, move from one industry to another and thus enable those deficiting interests to be filled with, first of all, with, with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Here it is, if it is and it is done, we would ask nicely that you share it with us before the vote of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12200	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12201	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. A larger working group made up of representatives of several ministries worked on the draft law and, of course, as I pointed out, social partners. A significant contribution to the drafting of the law, particularly in the part related to the work of foreigners, was made of course by the competent ministry and the HZZ. They have prepared certain data, based on which these amendments have been made to the provisions concerning the employment and work of foreigners. I couldn't tell you the numbers right now. Also around requalification. It's also a job that regularly performs HZZ and any employer who wants and if the worker agrees with it will get funds, but I give you details of the number of those who have passed the requalification I couldn't give because... I don't deal with them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12202	Thank you very much. Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12203	Yeah, I'll be in touch, thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, I'd have two questions for you, too. So, despite the short-term view of this law as desirable to employers, do you actually consider that there is one real danger of reducing labour prices within the Republic of Croatia in occupations that are not deficiting, which is why we are at risk of substituting actually quantity versus quality? And the second question, do you think the government could have done more to activate, activated the available domestic workforce since last year, over 40,000 workers moved out of the Republic of Croatia and moved in, seems to me to be just over 37,000 of which are more than 27,000 foreigners coming from countries that are far from being competitive. For example, from BiH, Kosovo, Northern Macedonia, Serbia and Ukraine?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12204	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12206	A quick recovery for both of us. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12207	Thank you, Chairman. I can't wait to see you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12208	All right, all right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12209	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I think the logic is that this particular, this new model of employment would be an even bigger dam than lowering labour prices. Let me remind you, first of all, the employer must seek out a Croatian domestic worker and offer a certain salary and certain conditions. If the Croatian worker wants to take it, offer it, take it, and do it, he is not in a position, the employer is not even in a position to seek out a new foreigner who will then be paid less. So neither at that time can an employer nor a worker know for which salary a stranger might get. So this model is more related, I repeat, to the labour market, it will also be a dam against illegal downsizing of labour prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12210	Thank you very much, Mr. Katic. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. And now the first to speak, Mr. Erik Fabianic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club I'm sorry, I'm in violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Strengling from the bench: Injury of the Rules of Procedure Kujundzic]] Whose? Mr. Kujundzic, please. [[Clip intrusion: Kujundzic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12211	It's the chairman, here I wanted to hear you again, actually I'd react to this last sentence, it's an injured art. 238. I agree, on the one hand, that the question is, in the end, in which sector we need workers, but I would point to another problem. For example, according to Eurostat data in Croatia, food is more expensive, and less purchasing power than citizens, we are essentially the only member of the country that is above Bulgaria, more specifically we are in the last place. In other words, the question is how much it is in the government's interest to preserve all these interests that exist in Croatia, on the other hand, whether actually lowering the wages themselves the kind of people we're in danger of importing foreigners. [[Thank you, time, thank you.]] I am withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Mr. Kujundzic, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12212	I won't, I won't, I won't be the first chairman to give a video warning, but you've earned it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12213	I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12214	Here you go, Mr. Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12215	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to confess to the task force that made this law. This law is a very complicated thing, making has begun I think let it correct me in 2011, in 2018 this is a very complex matter because it includes the whole part that is related to immigration we can call it that, but of course what is most typical of this area and where it must have been the most work, effort and pawnage is the part that is related to the labour market, and through the labour market we can also install into it what is a European acquis, or what European values are related to labour and immigration as much as they are about countries so-called. third countries, because we need to know one thing that, under EU anti-discrimination provisions, EU acquis and domicile laws apply not only to EU citizens but also to third-country nationals, provided they have a permanent or permanent stay in a Member State. I'm going to recapitulate how this law happened. Namely, there was therefore this law already as the Foreigner Law had already been in the first reading in the previous session, and it was again given to us here for reading in this conference. I was at that time during the debate warned that this proposal of the text from the first reading was falling short of the text from the first reading of the previous call, and I also called for social dialogue to be established on the document and I must really acknowledge the fact that, therefore, social partners met, they discussed it, and so it went, so it was also debated on the economic social and economic social council. In this particular case, with this law to have what broader consensus is extremely important, it is extremely important because even the political consensus here is less important or less levanic than what the consensus of the social partners is, and we as a state, and I was also saying that in the previous debate, we have to be a guarantee of these agreements and we are not, therefore, not leading the main, capital word. In any case, by analysing the difference between the first and second readings, there was an improvement, there was an improvement. And among other things, I'm going to point out that the question of the maximum number of foreigners in the employer, so which was 1/4 in the first reading 1/3 was returned to, was returned to 1/4 so that's good. There were also language corrections to return the word sport instead of sport, sport is Germanism, in our language Croatian standards we must stick to the original word that comes from England because it is the English word no matter how much, so I think that here language issues are least important. I know that our former President of the Republic of Francis Tudjman loved the word sport without further ado, but I think that in this law it is less important, but here and personally I prefer to write slow, not sports or athletes or whatever it is. What I would mention, therefore, is that the regulation of these mechanisms has little effect on our reality. The fact is that when we write this regulation and we discuss this regulation and we make this regulation we do it for a future that is not related to the pandemic and it is time, it is appropriate to discuss it precisely in that one, so that we are prepared the moment when the pandemic will stop as soon as possible, but that the labour market is also affected by the pandemic, and we can also adapt this law to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to As a club of representatives, we have submitted four, four amendments which are essentially only an improvement in the text itself, I will only briefly look at them and I will not read the arguments, but are crucial in order to really have a consensus or to have SDP support for this, for this law. He also knows Mr Katić in the Committee on Labour twice my discussions are this otherwise slightly more heated and temperamental because it is about the working body of the Croatian Parliament. So, we propose the following, so in Article 93, so where is the MUP which the police administration can refuse on his behalf, it can refuse to stay or work permit for stay and work should replace the word "can refuse" with "will" because the matter is very simple. So either we refuse or accept, after all, that's what Article 105 says, so here's just a question of harmonisation. Therefore, if you leave, it may refuse to turn out that it can and does not have to if it does not meet the conditions, so it does not satisfy the conditions, then it can only be can and does not have to be. The second thing, so in art. In 97, when it comes to exceptions to the test in seasons, we'd leave the farm. Why would they leave the farm? Because secondly, I'm going to explain that, and it can happen, the city, the flood, any elemental accident where the system doesn't need to be burdened, or you have to take certain actions urgently to, for example, take. A breed or a harvest wouldn't fail. We wouldn't keep the hospitality and forestry because then someone would ask why not the construction but in my opinion Mr. Capelli gave the best explanation, because he said that they were conducting certain surveys so to see if... 20,000 and we have five at our disposal. So if it goes through the test, we're going to have that data and we're going to know what else we wouldn't know, so it's worth it at the end and for other activities, so we're going to put it here exclusively because carrying out the test doesn't mean denying the entry, or hiring strangers, but we have an emergency here and we move the procedure and then for this other thing, we're going to get valuable data that we still need. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the third amendment is also essentially a little return to a certain analogy. Because we really welcome the elimination of quotas as they were because the moment you have the quota, it can happen, and there will always be reasonable doubt and the employers don't like it, that some are closer to those who assign quotas within the total and that some are further. And then it's always justifiable to you the suspicion of an unequal act. This way everyone has the same conditions and the same procedure for acting on missing workers. I'm appealing again, let's talk about the workers, not the workforce. Because the worker is a man, the workforce is a labour force. And that is that with those exceptions that should be without delay and which are overlooked by this law to be decided by the Governing Council of the HZZ, that we are still looking for in the decision-making process, and the consent of the social partners or sorry, better say, the opinion of the social partners because this is how we bring them back into play and we are all for the social partnership. I think here in this hall we're all for social partnership. So we're removing quotas that have always been consistent with the social partners. Thus, in the quota process, social partners were asked for the same opinion. Therefore, this amendment only requires that the social partners also be involved in what is the release from the test taken by the administrative council to which the decision as such remains. And the code. 104, it is related to the renewal of work permits in seasonal work, it is perfectly normal that certain conditions must be met, so it is an adequate accommodation, but someone who works 5 years, so every year with the same employer, normally that the accommodation is the same and there is no problem there, so if he changes the employer then we should, as a Croatian state, check that his accommodation is adequate. That's four. I think she's very benevolent. [[Thank you, Eric.]] Amendments but what are the conditions under our support of this law. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12216	Thank you. .../The speaker speaks Italian./... Thank you. And now it's Madam. Marijana Puljak who will speak on behalf of the IP, Smart and Voice Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12217	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here is the final proposal of the Foreigner Law, which we discussed in our first reading as a law that has several good things. The first good thing, here is already mentioned here, for us is a permit for so-called. digital nomads, therefore, are mainly IT experts, experts from the creative industries travelling around the world, working at a distance, as we know Estonia was the first EU country to allow digital nomads, and this law introduces such permits and becomes a place for us and Croatia to live in and spend their income here. That's definitely good news. It is not good news that they do not want to come to work because such conditions are, is that, that Croatia is still a better place to live and not work but we will say more about it tomorrow. As far as other news on this law is concerned, the procedure for the employment of third-country nationals has been facilitated, if the employer wishes to hire a foreign worker, a foreign citizen, it is necessary to first establish that there are no available unemployed persons in the Republic of Croatia who meet his requirements and will be implemented so on. the labour market test within 15 days, so the Croatian Institute must check the state of the unemployed, examine whether there are people interested in the mobility and migration of unemployed persons in the country, so if such a person is found in Croatia, HZZ will intervene in order to hire workers from the national labour market. So, there are here, we've heard exceptions from carrying out that test and they're all going to be defined by HZZ. It also seemed to us positive that the government would no longer prescribe annual quotas for the employment of foreigners, however, here in this second reading an article appeared. The 246 that has already been mentioned here, which speaks of immigration policy and in its second sentence, is said that the government will, on the basis of the principle set out in paragraph 1, one that will be adopted by the Croatian Parliament, but that the government will decide on the number and the criteria and conditions for immigration. So there's a number again, a quota of some kind. As far as we are concerned, immigration policy, so there cannot be some kind of partial policy that is introduced through this draft law, especially as a result of the regulation of numbers and criteria for the immigration of third-country nationals in Croatia, it must be one serious, comprehensive policy resulting from the general development policy and strategy of the Republic of Croatia and as such cannot be introduced through two articles of this bill. Especially almost like some kind of sublegal act. So here we are also going to propose an amendment to delete this item or article here even though I hear it's consistent with the social partners, but I'm saying, once again, the quota we wanted to get rid of is being reintroduced. We will also submit several amendments to which we will propose simplification, further simplification of procedures, here's an example, so this bill foretold that after the employer already communicates with the HZZ, so with the Croatian Employment Service and seeks their labour market test, the ministry, or the competent police administration, is seeking a positive opinion from the HZZ. So first, the employer communicated with HZZ, collected some data, the results of the labour market, and then headed back to the police administration, which will then communicate with HZZ again. So this step may be skipped and the employer may actually be asked immediately for a positive opinion, yes, to sort of shorten that procedure a little bit. You also talked about this deadline that was reduced from 180 to 90 days, so after getting a positive assessment and the result of the labour market examination, the time limit within which the employer can request permits is now reduced to 90 days, it seems to us that this is excessively restrictive and we suggest that this deadline be returned to 180 days because it seems to us to be 3 months. Sometimes it's actually too little time to even collect all the documents, find a worker and actually ask for permission. I will repeat some of the arguments from the first reading on this topic, given that there are often concerns here, doubt that this law will open up the possibility of reducing labour prices, domestic jobs will be threatened, but let's look at the moment Croatia is in place, I say, we will not now discuss why the 10% of the working population has left from Croatia, so last year, according to DZS data, 40,000 people have moved out, at the same time, last year we had 37,000 immigrants among them 27 000 foreigners and only 9800 Croatian citizens, so nothing since the return of evicted Croats has been stopped. We are all alone and witness the lack of quality labour in the labour market and therefore we do not seem to have room for fears of any threat to jobs. The employer’s interest is always to hire the best person or the best possible person for the jobs he offers, so they should not be further made difficult and complicated in such conditions. What can happen to us as an absurd, that all these people who moved out, they come back here like digital nomads, right, so they go, they work in Ireland, they come here, they live here and they work remotely in Ireland. I will also point out one last important thing, these are student visas that are not defined here, defined a temporary stay related to the study, but student visas are another good thing that could have been more precise and longer-term stay of students, the renewal of that same, the amount of the guarantee for the return insurance, the cost of health insurance, so which should not be the same for managers and students, the rights to student work, so a number of things that regulate the study and since there are 13 000 unfulfilled places left in the Croatian universities today, which means that we want some global competitiveness of the Croatian economy, which can be achieved among other things and the internationalisation of education, and I think that we should be aimed to increase the number of foreign students, if they want to stay here in Croatia, we should certainly be welcome. So here, we're going to propose a few amendments that would therefore further facilitate and speed up this authorisation procedure as I mentioned now, and so that will depend on our... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12218	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Vucilovic will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12219	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Croatian National Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. By the second reading, this Law on Foreigners had been changed and this was presented to us by the State Secretary, and this has already been addressed by colleagues who spoke. These changes are mainly in the part in which the Homeland Movement had the most objections in its first reading and relate to the part that regulates the new model of employment of third-country nationals. However, we do believe that giving up the quota system and withdrawing the Government of the Republic of Croatia from this whole process is not good, and so far through the quota system it has been a de facto one list of the wishes of our employers to which it has largely been granted. We also see by the number of quotas issued that they grow rapidly from year to year and there are no problems. The quantum system is not perfect as none nor will what is proposed be perfect, it is of course clear to all. What we find problematic is this new role of the Employment Service. So if we have 150,000 unemployed at this point, so according to Governor Vujčić's statements, we have 50,000 unemployed since the start of the crisis and on the other hand we've heard that over 50,000 permits have been issued and there's obviously a shortage of certain labour force. On the other hand, the Employment Office is constantly doing retraining. Why do we now think that this HZZZ will suddenly become efficient and suddenly perform its function immaculately and it will be some kind of major link in the whole process? And it seems to us that this is exactly the weakest link in the whole process, and it really remains questionable, vague and very strange why we still have such a difference between the lack of a qualified workforce on the one hand and the number of unemployed on the other hand, with so many funds being invested in various requalification programmes. In doing so, I must stress once again what we all know very well, we are in the midst of a health crisis that has also caused the economic crisis, which will not be the V-shaped one. This V shape will have only China, a rapid decline and again rapid growth, Croatia will most likely have either a crisis of U-shaped form, with a slightly stronger dent or a double bottom, which is still being slowed by economists because this dose of uncertainty is related to the health threat and the production of vaccines and medicines is still uncertain. The drop in wages and the increase in unemployment if we watch this happen in past crises, we can expect in fact in a stronger volume next year, so far it has been stopped, and it has been facilitated, with generous funding from the state budget, there is also a country that expects funds from the SURE programme but the question is how far it will be available and how much it will be possible in the coming year. We therefore feel that this law at the moment at which we are present is really not appropriate. What is new in this proposal, which was also referred to in the replica and colleague Mrak Taritash is, in fact, the beginning of the work on immigration policy, art. 246, in order to bridge that period until immigration policy is adopted, I can only say, I hope we won't wait for it for 3 years, that we won't pay it 32 million kuna as a National Development Strategy that has 82 pages, soon we will come to the bench, with a simple accounting operation we see that... It cost about 400,000 kn where we got some kind of text that's at the level of the wish list. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must point out that it seems to me that the creation of an immigration strategy represents in some way and capitulation in front of this devastating demographic data, we have already talked about the number of emigrated and heard many times and I will look back to you here I am looking at the figures relating to healthcare professionals. So we obviously have some kind of deficit because it keeps coming to us, and now we see some sort of pre-command in our healthcare system, a lack of medical medical staff, and it means that if we don't count the ones that left after the unsupervised completed schooling, then those who went from the health system alone, they've gone over the past 10 years, 7500 nurses, each fourth. We're out of a thousand specialists' doctors. Physiotherapists, midwives, dentists, all of these are health professionals who have left the Republic of Croatia in large numbers in the last 10 years. Germany will need half a million new workers in the healthcare system according to certain projections over the next 15 years, which is about 300,000 nurses, which is the data of the German Economic Institute in Cologne. Where are our projections? What does that tell us? So where is this demographic policy of ours, the professional one, that we're going to need jobs for, what number of people? These 50-ac, as you said, 58,906 permits issued this year, if we count that Croatia has 4 million inhabitants and demographics say there are 3 million and 800 of us, that's 1.5%, when half a million people move to Germany, that's not that percentage, so half a million new foreigners in Germany and 58 900 in Croatia are very different if we look at relative figures. And what's happening to us here? So our population structure is changing, and that's the objective problem demographics point to. So we become an immigration country extremely fast with the structure of those who move to Germany, such that there is a percentage of 33% highly educated and in Croatia is 1%. So they don't come to Germany, they don't come to Germany, they don't come to Germany, they come to us with butchers, bakers, maids, cooks, we change the demographic structure of the population. This is an objective long-term problem. Who's doing this to us? That's what our employers do, the government is totally out of the process, and that's the problem. So our employers create the future demographic structure of the population this way. And that's what the unions in this period between the first and the second readings warned. In Article 97(3), the employer says that, if the employer submits evidence of compliance with the requirements which the employer has requested in the labour market test, they will relate to the level of education, educational qualification, work experience and all other conditions. So we come from Nepali workers, from Pakistan, from Bangladesh how they, what they will adapt, what these diplomas will look like or I don't know. What does it look like when someone finishes high school in Bangladesh, does anyone know what it looks like? Of course, there will probably be those agencies waiting already ready, don't forget that in these countries they work for 50 EUR per month and the salary that is even the smallest one here is very large for them. I still need to refer briefly to one article that I also cited in my first reading, which is Article 101 concerning exemptions from the implementation of the labour market test, which is point 3. other circumstances important for economic growth and sustainable development. So, in general, it can go very wide under that. So this labour market test is also missing as easily as it can be easily bypassed by this law. And I'm just going to say briefly, so we're not going to do this kind of law, the Homeland Movement is not going to support it because we think we need to develop a strategy that would stimulate emigrant Croats to their homeland and an immigration strategy that will be selective, and not this unselective one that comes, brings this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12220	Thank you. The next club registered for a debate for Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, respected representative Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12221	Dear Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, I will speak today, given that this is a final draft of the law, I will talk about the concrete amendments that we will submit to the Foreign Law, because in the form proposed by the Green-Left bloc Club, it cannot be supported for some kind of two reasons. The first type of reasons refers in fact to the treatment itself and the issue of the protection of the fundamental human rights of the foreigners themselves, and the second category refers to the protection of actually labour markets, i.e. specific workers from the Republic of Croatia and relations between foreign and domestic workers. So what we are going to propose as one of the 15 amendments is that we are asking that, in the assessment of safety risks and the threat of national security, the Security Intelligence Agency is obliged to carry out a test of proportionality and a test of public interest over these data for the reasons that there is a number of evidence that it is very arbitrarily and without actually being able to question these reasons as far as they are justified and whether these data that need to be protected are actually happening that a wide range of these data is considered to be actually protected data, or a type of threat that cannot be questioned, to question whether or not it really is a threat. That is, it is not only our position, it was the position on several occasions and the Administrative Court, but also the position of the Constitutional Court in some other cases that it must actually be able to question the assessment of the Security Intelligence Agency. Furthermore, we also believe that the excessive requirement required by the carrier is to bear the costs if they do not have the knowledge that they are transporting a third-country national who has been refused entry into another country because we do not believe that they can ask the carrier to control passengers in a way that is too much of a burden for them to review their residence documents in one of the countries because it is not their job, nor are they qualified to do so, so they are not trained to do so and it is too much burden for them. So in our first reading, we pointed out that as one of the problems. We will also ask to define helping for humanitarian reasons. Therefore, helping a foreigner for humanitarian reasons should be, as such, aid that does not result in any material or financial benefit for the aider but is guided solely by a moral and humanitarian principle in situations of necessary assistance to protect the life or integrity of a person and such assistance must in no case be sanctioned for the purpose of criminalising one of the basic principles and values of our constitutional order, which is the principle of solidarity. And we really believe that in this way we need to resolve this issue in order to help them with humanitarian reasons, for humanitarian reasons, completely exclude them from a possible criminal or criminal zone. Furthermore, we also ask that for all those who come from war-related areas in which or areas or parts, not only countries, but parts of countries where institutions have been destroyed not to require certain documentation which is otherwise required, such as a confirmation of impunity, because it is simply not really possible in the vast majority of cases. The same applies to travel documents of persons who do not have citizenship. Therefore, it is also necessary to take into account the possibility of persons who do not have citizenship, therefore, who are apatrides and that no particular documentation may be requested for them which they can not, in fact, come forward. We also believe that, given that the Board of Appeals of the MUP has been abolished, and that, in fact, the only effective legal remedy is now an appeal to the Administrative Court, that, in this case, an action brought against a solution which, for example, is rejected, refuses to extend the stay or stay, whether or not it approves a temporary stay, that the action must delay the execution of the solution in order to have the character of an effective legal remedy. So it's important that when we offer a legal remedy that it's effective. So, that after the execution of the person can exercise the right, if that person is previously removed from the Republic of Croatia, that whether that court in a year, two or three will solve this person for this reason will not help, so since we do not have the Board of Appeals here we ask that, that the complaint to the Administrative Court delay the execution of the solution. Furthermore, we also ask that the definition of family should include a life partner or an informal life partner. As you know, the Law on the Life Partnership of the same sex states that it is a community of family life of two persons who are concluded before the competent authority in accordance with the provisions of the law. It should also be said that the cohabitation of same-sex couples falls under the concept of family life within the meaning of Article 8. European Conventions on Human Rights, or the right to privacy. And also, the Constitutional Court said when the Constitution changed in 2013 in terms of the definition of the marriage community, it must not have any effect on further development of the legal frameworks of the non-marriage and same-sex communities in accordance with the basic constitutional requirement that everyone in the Republic has the right to respect and private and personal life. For this reason, and also so that we would actually be in line with other legal acts under which family members include both life partners and informal life partners, so that this definition here is also harmonised. Furthermore, we move on to amendments concerning labour and labour market protection issues. So what was seen is that Croatia is leaving the quota system on the one hand, on the other hand going towards the Slovenian model, but that it took from the Slovenian model pick and choose, so what was appropriate to the government has taken away, and all of those security mechanisms for the protection of workers and for the protection of labour price, for example, has not been installed in this proposal. So now we have a model that actually represents the ultimate liberalisation of the labour market in terms of imports of labour that can have an extremely large impact on domestic workers, but also on those of workers. For what reason? We need to know, and we are aware that exactly foreign workers, not only in Croatia but across Europe, are very often victims of the violation of basic labour rights and basic human rights from the fact that their labour price is being reduced, that their working conditions are not in line with the Labour Act, to the fact that, for example, the conditions in which they are placed are very often inhumane and do not meet the basic, basic legal requirements. For this reason, we ask that Article 93 of the Law be amended in such a way that the Ministry must refuse, through police administration or police station, to grant a residence permit and work if it is an employer or host who fails to comply with obligations in relation to social security, workers' rights, working conditions and employment and tax obligations, or we have added a collective contract that binds the employer. Why? Because we want to send a message to employers that abandoning the quota system does not mean free imports of labour simply to lower the labour price or not to respect the collective contract or labour law. Similarly, this is done in the case of an employer who is legally convicted of crimes in the field of employment and social security and the person who is sanctioned for undeclared work or illegal employment. So, you've left the possibility of refusing a request, we're asking that in these three cases when it comes to violations of labour rights, a request for such an employer must be rejected. We also ask that one of the reasons is that one of the reasons for the withdrawal of the permit is the fact that, in order to establish that the employer does not pay salaries or contributions or does not pay salaries and contributions in accordance with the applicable collective contract, the Labour Act and other regulations governing the payment of salaries, including, of course, minimum wage provisions, and also that the permit is abolished whenever it is established that the employer puts a foreign worker in a more unfavourable position than other employees in the company with regard to the amount of wages, working conditions and conditions of progress. Why is this important? If this, if we install these fuses, then we won't have this negative effect that many of my colleagues and colleagues have talked about today. and that is that we will actually lower the labour price, make work conditions worse for both domestic and foreign workers. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12222	Thank you very much. Keep an eye on the weather. The next registered club is the HDZ. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative, Davor Ivo Stier, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12223	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, the HDZ Representatives' Club considers that this Final Proposal of the Foreigners Act, which the Government has sent us, addresses a whole series of issues that were not covered by the old law, which must now be answered and adopted by new legal solutions. This applies, for example. at the Institute of Long-term Visas issued to a third-country national who is in need of a short-term visa and who is granted a temporary stay or a permit to stay and work in the Republic of Croatia. In this way, our legislation is harmonised with the acquis of the EU or with the regulations amending the Convention on the Implementation of the Schengen Agreement. However, this proposal also introduces a newspaper in which Croatia predicates within the EU, such as The new Institute of Digital Nomads has already praised this club during the first reading, and so have individual representatives from the ruling majority, but also from opposition parties, we have heard it now. After the innovative and very positive experience of Estonia, Croatia has also now recognised this new category of people who, thanks to the technological revolution of the digital economy, are increasingly deciding to stay and work far from the headquarters of their companies in countries that provide quality, quality living conditions and, of course, in which they will spend, pay VAT, contribute to their economic development. As a world tourist destination, Croatia is therefore adapting its legislation to attract this category of people and giving additional incentives to its economy. It should also be stressed that this bill introduces more favourable conditions for obtaining a permanent stay for members of the Croatian people who do not have Croatian citizenship but for the citizenship of a third country, which is a large part of our emigrants from overseas countries. For permanent stay they will no longer have to meet the condition of 5 years of legal stay for just 3 years and will not need to prove the means to maintain or take the Croatian language exam if they have already declared themselves Croats and proved their belonging to the Croatian people. This is certainly in line with the new Law on Citizenship that we have brought in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament. However, the provisions most interested in the Croatian public discussed and during the first reading are certainly related to the new system of employment of third-country nationals, which many representatives and social partners have linked to the whole topic of immigration policy. Therefore, according to this proposal, the government will no longer make a decision on the establishment of an annual quota of foreign employment permits but will play a key role in the new system by making an obligation to first try to find labour in the Croatian labour market. Therefore, the employer must first seek out Croatian workers on the Croatian labour market, and will be able to apply for a foreign worker only if there is no domestic who can or wants to do the job sought. In order to avoid possible manipulations, while respecting certain remarks and proposals made during the first reading, the Government has prescribed, in this final proposal for a law in Article 97, that, in the application for the authorisation to stay and work of a foreign citizen, the employer must submit a contract of work in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Act and proof that the foreign worker fulfils all the requirements required in the Croatian labour market test, which relate to the level of education, educational qualification, working experience and any other conditions previously required by the employer when initially sought by a worker on the domestic market. In addition, Article 99 of the final draft of the law is prescribed as a condition that an employer who requests permission to stay and work of a foreign worker is not legally convicted of crimes in the field of employment and social security. My colleagues and colleagues, looking at the Final Proposal of the Foreign Law in full with the new provisions included on the basis of the debate in the first reading of the HDZ Representatives Club, sees these changes as enabling the Croatian economy to ensure more effective and legal labour force in a more effective way, and that the priority is given to the Croatian man or the development of the domestic labour market. As in the case of any political decision, we must take into account the current economic, social and demographic circumstances, as well as the adoption of this law, that they are not always optimal. But there will be no color if we close our eyes to the reality that foreign workers are also needed not only for development but for the very survival of the Croatian economy today. Therefore, by accepting always the reality that is ahead of us, and with the aim of improving the existing situation, the only sound decision is to manage migration processes in order to guide them and to the greatest extent possible put them into the role of strengthening the Croatian economy, Croatian society ultimately and the Croatian state, and not to turn them against it. Therefore, the HDZ Club particularly welcomes the introduction of a new Article 246 of this final proposal, which will set out the principles for the implementation of a comprehensive immigration policy of at least 5 years, and will be decided annually by the Croatian Government on the number, standards and conditions for the immigration of third-country nationals. This Act on Foreigners is not and cannot be a substitute for immigration policy, but is part of a broader and more comprehensive approach to this key issue, and in this debate they are placed on opposite extremes on the one hand of the closure and refusal of migration, and on the other side their encouragement, the opening of state borders or even their defacto abolition. According to our view at the HDZ Club, none of these extremes correspond to the interests of the Republic of Croatia today. We refuse to look at migration exclusively in the negative context of the conscious contribution that many immigrants have made and will likely give to the development of our homeland. But also the Republic of Croatia is and will remain a national state. The state of the Croatian people with its culture, its identity and, of course, its state borders. Within these borders we want to develop a society of free and solid people proud of their own and open to people of good faith who in a legal way, but only in a legal way want to come here, accept our values of our constitutional values and work for the improvement and progress of Croatia. Following such an approach, the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12224	Thank you. The next club for discussion is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, since counterpart Zvonimir Troscott will speak on behalf of the club for a short while we will move physically from the Assembly itself and welcome Mr. Troscott through the video conference. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12225	Dear Vice-Presidents, respected representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and respected Croatian citizens who follow us through the screen. Regarding this law, therefore, MOST's Club of Representatives also criticised the first Government proposal of this Foreigners Act because we pointed out then, we also point out today that it will really negatively affect the domestic labour market, and yet this law is problematic and unsurpassed and even dangerous from the demographic but also from the point of view of national security. We would also point out that the proposal of this law actually fell on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security because there were not enough votes to vote for such a law and on the other hand, and this law that remains now contains a series of problematic articles, and one that points to where the wind blows both politically and geopolitically and even in an ideological sense is also.../incomprehensible/... 51st paragraph 4 in which it is directly referred to the Marrakesh Agreement which is multiplely problematic, we have not yet debated it, we have not presented it to the Croatian public and what are all the repercussions, because today's President Milanovic has warned of the possibility of receiving 100,000 illegal migrants in Croatia, so here we do not yet know what is wrong with this agreement and what are the repercusions. And it is not clear what such a Marrakech agreement is in such a law at all and why it is even mentioned as such. This is why the law remains, we believe that it is not well written, and.../incomprehensible/... economic issues because again at the end of the day this Law on Foreigners says that Croatian citizens are not in focus again, the Croatian people are not in focus again, and we will immediately reason as we were exposed at the first time to this law, no one here is against foreigners, that we are certainly not in MOST Club, but if we look at it from the corner of some new sovereignty that we are constantly talking about in the Croatian Assembly each normal and sovereignly arranged state is first moving from its citizens. I think how many Croatian citizens are out of work, how many Croatian citizens are prevented from getting paid monthly wages, how many health and non-health workers are left without compensation for their salaries, on bonuses for all the efforts they give, and here we are just bringing foreigners into the Republic of Croatia. It is also a threat to small brave people who have remained here and whose work in Croatia suffers, who are bloodyly paying our taxes, we bleed for our salaries both in the Croatian Parliament and elsewhere, and with only 2 of this Article 246 is absurd and ridiculous at the end of the day to define the entire immigration policy and quota problem. The quota problem was put there as some kind of insurance of the population structure that will certainly change because if we have 150,000 people on one side of the HZZ data because the governor also warned about 50 additional, thousands of extra people left unemployed, and so far in 2020 we gave 50,000 work permits, so something's wrong. As far as the proposal for this law is concerned, it is nothing more than a message for Croatian citizens alone once you lose your job because of foreigners. And why is that? For the reason that the avalanche site that enters the Republic of Croatia will lower the labour price and this is happening because certain entrepreneurs are already near the City of Zagreb talking we will cut your salary if you do not want to accept these conditions anymore we will introduce foreigners who will work for us for less money. And this was a unique opportunity now that the lack of demand in the labour market is primarily regulated with a higher salary for ours, for our people who work in the Republic of Croatia already here. That's what I asked the secretary of state, so before this proposal of the Foreigners Act, we didn't get anyone here in the Croatian Parliament to analyze how unemployed it is on HZZ, to receive social assistance, to work parallelly in the gray economy, thus jeopardising all of us honest people who honestly want to earn wages, pay taxes, pay contributions, so to contribute through public finances to our Croatia. Furthermore, the conditions of social assistance therefore no one has made any reform, are not complex and we are also here in the first draft of the law and we have now given, that it would be very good for all people who have been reported to be called, to be offered a job first, because obviously, that work should therefore be done if 150,000 people are unemployed, and 50,000 permits are given, so if they simply refuse to do so, the first job they would have given to simply stop paying social aid and to dissipate the state in this way. We didn't get further analysis with requalifications, so what about people who might want to profile themselves as a nurse, maybe someone would like to go to the electricians, so these are all some kind of deficiting professions in the Republic of Croatia that would certainly lead to re-employment, and with new employment and additional contributions and taxes in the Republic of Croatia. No one has made a strategy at least of the legislators of the labour market, where these demand strategic needs are in Croatia so that we can requalified, educate and direct the population in this direction. So here we heard today that the Council for the introduction of the EUR is even more resolute for the introduction of the EUR, and on the third hand, Dr.sc. Vizek from the Zagreb Economic Institute says that the introduction of EUR in the recessions that we are currently experiencing is therefore additional pressure for eviction, intense pressure for eviction of the Croatian population to Western Europe, and then with the introduction of the EUR, we will further actively and able to drive the population out of the Republic of Croatia so that we can settle it with foreigners. Furthermore, we do not see what we have discussed today and what we have presented in HS, we do not see a clear strategy, for example, with the markets of Latin America. Here, Mr. Stier knows the problem too. So, we don't have at all the Argentina embassy in the City of Zagreb in Croatia and we don't see how, at least through tax or economic policy, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has strategies for Mexico, Brazil, Argentina and in general towards the Latin American market, which is huge and in which a large, large contingent of Croatian emigrants lives. And that's what I'm saying especially from the perspective where Ireland and Israel are examples of countries that have taken advantage of the potential of their diaspora, and that was one of their pillars of economic growth. Look where Israel is today, one of the most developed... The economy in the world, and one of the most basic things that generated the growth of their economy was Aliyah, where the Israelites and Jews from all over the world moved to this small country to be the land of 8 million people today. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have the same potential. And on the other hand, which is our relationship to our emigrants, is harassing them with bureaucracy, harassing them with, with documentation, harassing them with waiting for their papers 3 to 5 years, and simply people are losing their will to apply and to come to work in Croatia. So what's the message then? What is the message to those people who would like to return, who would like to invest even in the small villages from which they came, their ancestors who had moved 4, 3 or 4 generations ago to distant overseas countries so that today we would make it impossible for them to return to Croatia, and on the other hand to foreigners who are both culturally and by many factors different from our culture, so we accept them in Croatia before our people are expelled. So there are many, very many things that we should consider first of all, see what are clear strategies of the Croatian government for the economy and on what basis we want to build our Croatia. So, on the basis of our people we intensively emigrate, further our diaspora that we have deceived several times, we prevent them from coming back to Croatia, and we would like to, and we would like to return to Croatia, and on the third hand, give the foreigners an opportunity, without quotas, to literally enter the Republic of Croatia and where certain Marrakech agreements are also mentioned that are not yet clear that they will not have any repercussions for either Croatia or the EU, and through, let's say, through the first middle, middle future. For this reason, therefore, we cannot, we cannot support this law because we believe it does not go, does not go into the development strategy, at least that new sovereignty that we represent, the Republic of Croatia and that neither economically nor demographically nor in terms of national security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12226	Thank you, dear colleague Troscott. It seems to me that this was the first address to make such a point on behalf of the club through this video link, we successfully carried it out. Before we go, we've exhausted all the registered clubs, the debates on behalf of the clubs. Before we move to individual debates, Mr. Zarko Katic, for his word, appeared on behalf of the promoter, the respected Secretary of State, Mr. Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12227	Your Honor, ma'am. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Troscott. He wouldn't have appeared in this situation if it weren't for one harsh and strange ignorance to me when it comes to enlisting a provision. No. 91st century 4. The final proposal for a law where it is mentioned when a permit can be issued for the stay and work of a third-country national who comes to work as a necessary person in accordance with the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Marrakech Treaty establishing the World Health Organization and to what time limit it is then issued. So, I think that every MP, I don't want to make a point, should know what the World Health Organization is, when it is founded, and even when HS ratified the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Marrakech Treaty on Founding, so the WTO. That's, I think he knows the first year of economics. Such an agreement and the handling and issuing of work permits under this Protocol is of course important for our companies, for foreigners who come, especially in the financial sector, but also for every other business sector and every regulated, developed, global, non-European desire has joined this agreement and is acting according to its provisions. So, it's not about any migration-related document, obviously Mr. MP has mixed up two international documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12228	Thank you, please stay behind the pay phone, you have one replica, distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12229	Dear Secretary of State, you haven't spoken out of any criticism. You caught one agreement, so what I'm interested in, today the tax administration is sending to our micro-enterprises, the beginners, payments to pay the difference for the contributions for 2019. You want the last man who wants to do something in Croatia and drive out of Croatia, and then you cancel the quotas. Who's gonna stay? I asked you who'd fill your budget in three years.? These are the questions you need to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12230	Here's an esteemed secretary of state reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12231	Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy, this government has done a lot for the entrepreneurs and I agree with you that we need to do more every day. Every criticism, but the arguments are welcome but look at what has been done so far for our entrepreneurs. I have the numbers here, I can't speak because you have to understand that no, I represent that resistor and I'm not, I don't have that kind of knowledge that I can say it here. I've responded to what's a rough initial mistake in exposing Mr. Troscott, I could say other things, if there's a chance I'll look back at it, but this is something really, I repeat, it should be a student of every particular economy or such activity to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12232	Thank you very much. You can do this in your place, no more replicas, but we have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague, a distinguished representative of Troscott, reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12233	238, so no. 238, as far as the Marrakech Agreement itself is concerned,... We believe that, in this very sensitive law proposed here, it should not even be mentioned for the reasons why certain conferences in the future of calling for the agreement can be used, and can have great consequences on, the Croatian economy and about the economy, the eyes. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12234	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Troscott, I think it's clear to you, too, that you've actually abused the Rules of Procedure's Injury Institute in order to replicate the Proposer, please don't do that anymore. We are now going to a set of individual debates, the first one for an individual debate has been reported by the distinguished representative Katica Glamuzina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12235	Dear Vice-President HS, dear secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the parts of the law that lead towards greater liberalisation and the further opening of Croatia to the world, and the recognition of the benefits that we are accomplishing as a state. Like, from the SDP Club, we're not satisfied with the parts of this bill, but we're seeing some parts as positive changes, like, for example. introducing this new category of digital nomads. So it's about people who aren't tied to their jobs by the location of their stay, so they use the advantage of such a job to travel around the world as eternal tourists. These are the most common people who work as programmers, writers, columnists, various designers, business advisers, in short those who need their computer and stable Internet connection to do business. These are not people who would take jobs to Croats because they are not Croatian businesses, but jobs that can be done from Croatia as a foreign employer. If we don't open the door for them, they'll go for example. In Estonia, which opened the door for them, and will rent apartments there, there will be buyers of high purchasing power. Croatia is not the first country to recognise this trend and the need to adapt to its laws and become one of the countries where digital nomads would come for a certain time to live, work, enjoy and spend their money. The growing number of countries are clear financial implications, so it is good that we have adapted ourselves to such changes in global society. For now, such countries in Europe are few, Norway, Estonia in this more limited form, the Czech Republic, Portugal and Germany, and it is certainly good to join that trend sooner than later. However, there are a few misunderstandings left in the proposed law. The backbone of attracting such people to a country, including Croatia, concerns tax provisions. As people who are not Croats and who do not work for Croatian business entities, they are neither Croatian taxpayers, which is okay if they are there until 6 months because Croatian tax laws say that after 183 days of stay they become Croatian tax collectors, which is why I do not understand why this law limits the maximum stay of digital nomads to 12 and not to 6 months unless they are going to change the tax system. Furthermore, third-country nationals to whom this provision applies may include countries whose nationals need to obtain a visa to enter Croatia. I wonder if such a regulated stay, this new category, these citizens, so who else should have a visa, will be relieved or difficult? Is there going to be a specific visa category on Estonia for digital nomads, and will the citizens of those countries who don't normally need a visitor's visa also have to ask for it? What exactly will be the requirements that digital nomads will have to meet in order to be recognised as such, and by such a category, allow them to stay in Croatia, and how will this be checked? The committees that discussed this law said that one of the categories would be, the criteria would also be the level of profit i.e. that they will have to prove a certain level of income in order to be able to stay in the country as a digital nomad. I would also like to say here what level of income is exactly being done here because while it is clear to me that such a provision is necessary I don't think it would be good for it to be so high that most digital nomads would ultimately make it impossible to stay in Croatia. In general, it would be bad if such a positive step forward were turned into two steps back by re-restrictive regulations. Still speaking of categories concerning student exchanges, I don't think Mr. Secretary of State understood me very well in the replica. She would like to draw attention to the fact that in Croatia students' associations have been active, and already more, over 50 years, international student associations that operate in more than a hundred countries that exchange students, but not a way to exchange student programmes, but programs with trainees. Art. In 125, however, this law regulates the issue in some ways, but requires regulation of a legal relationship most often defined as a working relationship conditioned by a working contract. By working a contract, which makes our employers this kind of traineeship quite expensive. This is why Croatia has made it difficult to do so. Such foreign trainees actually receive only a fee that covers the minimum cost of their lives, but if this fee is treated as a salary, then it implies, of course, the corresponding taxes and contributions, it becomes too much for most employers willing to participate in such projects. I would like to appeal that such a legal relationship can also be regulated differently, not only as a Labour Treaty, so that such projects, such exchange programs, can also be made possible for our students because it's about the rules of reciprocity that so many of ours can come to us from outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12236	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Glamuzine, please remain behind the pay phone and you have one replica. Dear representative Marina Opačak Bilic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12237	Dear colleagues of Glamuzina I agree with your point of view which you have presented in your presentation and quite concrete ideas in the case of digital nomads that are here from Croatia doing a job on the line, and it is good that we have actually adapted ourselves to such a model, but except that you have announced some gaps that we still need to complete, I would only add to the concrete completion of the status of their family members. How many members of their families are actually allowed to come and stay with them in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12238	It is, thank you for asking, this is another thing that is not enough or defined at all in this law while some other categories of foreigners are allowed to come to Croatia together with the most important members of their families for digital nomads that is not explicit. I don't know if it's because they're seen as young.../incomprehensible/... wandering around the world, but it's a presumption, such jobs are done by people with families and now allow only one person in the family to come in as a digital nomad, and not allow him or her to bring along her partner, children, etc. is an indiscretion that I hope will correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12239	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Angelko Strick. Did I say your last name correctly, accent? Uncle. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12240	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, state secretaries with associates, I believe that the law is good, thorough, precise and clear, and among other things in the very explanation is that. states that it is in line with over 20 laws and a series of regulations and regulations currently in force, a series of EU directives and the most important one with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. As expected, our colleagues on the left more debate from the aspect of labour and labour, while our colleagues on the right more debate from the aspect of national security. However, this law does not address the issue of labour, nor does it address the issue of national security. This law prescribes the conditions of entry, movement, stay and work of foreigners who are nationals of third countries. So I repeat the entry, movement, stay and work of foreigners who are nationals of third countries. Today migration is a global phenomenon caused by a series of factors such as economic, social, political, environmental, labour and security aspects, and therefore we should not be surprised that in 2019, according to UN data, 272 million migrants were in the world, this 272 million people were on the move in 2019. Half of these 272 million migrants live in the 10 countries of the world the most in the United States are 51 million, Germany in Saudi Arabia 13, Russia 12, UK 10, United Arab Emirates 9, France, Canada and Australia by 8 and Italy by 6 million. When we look at what countries they come from, the most from India are 18 million, Mexico 12, China 11, Russia 10, Syria 8. The report also states that 3 to 4 migrants are able to work. From the State Secretary in the introduction, we heard statistics on migrants at the state level, so now allow a few words regarding the Varazdin County. There are currently about 2,000 foreigners in Varazdin County, mostly from BiH, Serbia, Nepal, Vietnam and Kosovo. If there were no question of whether certain companies could simply work, because they would not have the workforce, and on the other hand, what has often been said here is that many of our fellow citizens work across the EU. Of course, we are a member of the EU with full rights and obligations, and the EU rests on the principle of freedom of movement of persons, i.e. workers, goods, capital and services. And all of our citizens have every right to these EU members. Therefore, given that Varazdin is 80 km away from Austria, before that Slovenia, Ormoz, Ptuj, Maribor and this entire eastern part of Slovenia, it is no wonder that many of my fellow citizens are going to work in Slovenia and Austria. They are closer to Austria than to Zagreb, they travel shorter, and they pay higher. And now who are we to go to prevent them from going to work where they have a shorter path and a bigger and better pay. I believe that this law also protects the rights of workers currently with us, that the measures are envisaged in which the labour market test will be carried out, that the measures provided for are in the way in which it is conducted...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12241	Thank you very much. Excuse me. ... You have a series of replicas, so you'll have the opportunity maybe even these thoughts you wanted, and you haven't had a chance to tell. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first replica, the distinguished representative Bencic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12242	Thank you. So you're saying that this law does not affect labour or labour markets. State Secretary Katic said something similar, that it will not negatively affect the price of work or labour rights, so how do you explain that you are an art. In 97. exempt all seasonal workers in agriculture, forestry, catering and tourism from the need to carry out the labour market test, so all seasonal workers in agriculture, forestry, catering and tourism will be able to import without a labour market test, so I ask you how you think this will affect the price of workers, seasonal workers, whether that price will decrease or increase and create better conditions. So when you say this law has no impact on the labour market. Please specifically, will such liberalisation reduce the cost of working in seasonal affairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12243	Thank you. Here's a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12244	Dear MPs, I think you're aware that there is a certain season when a particular profession requires a workforce. For example. tourism, if we didn't have workers from BiH, is a question of how the tourist season would be done. Also, agriculture, agriculture, how many times we've heard through the media or watched on television, if you follow that agricultural show on Sundays, yes, whether our fellow citizens down from Dubrovnik-Neretva County will be able to pick up all the Mandarins because they're not here to read. Now, is it better if these Mandarins or crops go down, if there's no one to read them? ... And now these workers are coming, but they're black. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Agreement: Please, colleagues Bencic, do not throw from the bench.]] I think it's better that it's legally regulated and that they have certain rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12245	Thank you very much. I gave you a little bit more seconds that they distracted and ate up some of your time. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12246	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS and allow me to congratulate you on your first session of HS before the replica. In the context of our replicas and the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, we often forget it, so that I would not forget it, I will use a conscious part of this replica to give you congratulations. But the replica relating to the honourable parliamentary representative goes in the next context. Things change, you know. About 7.8 years ago, when we had a quota, we couldn't even use that quota because there were no jobs. Now the Honorable Secretary of State has said that we have 59 grand, that I'm not speaking correctly, that I have written, how many foreign employees we have. But what is the point, that Croatia should bring its development strategy. To know where we're going and then we have a policy of employment, because like this, I'm afraid the left won't know what the right hand is doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12247	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12248	Well, your replica speaks best of the good work of the current government. In the past term, everything was in plus, GDP growth, budget surplus, wage growth, social giving and job growth. So in the mandate of the last government over 100,000 jobs were opened. Since we had no domestic labour force, normally someone had to come out and fill those jobs. Thanks for the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12249	Thank you for your answer. Next in line is the replica of the esteemed MP Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12250	I thank the esteemed vice presidents and join the congratulations at this opening session of the plenary session. Dear fellow Uncle, did I say so? It is not disputed that we need foreign workers because we see that we have lost the vast number of people who have moved away. But why Croatia... Not to be seen in Germany, in the Western states, why not lead a selective immigration policy because, I'll repeat again, so we have 1% of the high-schooled, in Germany 33%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About respecting labour rights laws, and even human rights, unfortunately you have very bad examples from your county about which the media wrote widely and largely.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12251	Thank you very much. Here you are, Your Honor, Mr. Strick, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12252	Dear colleagues, that's exactly why this law is being passed. On the one hand, to enable entrepreneurs to introduce labour, if there is no domestic, to care who enters, because they are prescribed and which records, which travel documents, in which way you can come, i.e. enter the Republic of Croatia, so national security is protected and among other things, Art. 246th is prescribed that the government will propose to the Assembly to adopt immigration policies, which so far has not been established. I therefore consider this law to be a complete act protecting the economy on the one hand, on the other hand, workers and national security with a third.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12253	Thank you very much. The next replica is that of the distinguished MPs, Peovic, please welcome MPs Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12254	Good afternoon. Here, I will repeat a clear and loud question, whether the labour price will increase or will decrease if we have a law that exempts the labour market test from agriculture, catering, construction, etc., tourism. I'm going to answer that question, so to be clear, so the price of work certainly won't increase if we cancel the quotas. You said the labour price will certainly not increase if, and before you said that all EU workers have the same conditions, no, I have to deny you, so the workers in Croatia work 37% of the salary of a Western European worker. There's a reason for that. Elimination of the quota means liberalisation of the labour market and means lowering or at best stagnation of the labour price. And the fact that you're boasting about that surplus and repeating the same data over and over again, it's a matter of conjuncture and certainly not the politics of your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12255	Thank you very much. Here's your esteemed representative's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12256	Thank you. I stressed that we are an EU member, a full member of the EU and the EU rests on the principle of freedom of movement of persons, i.e. workers, goods, capital and other persons. And whatever our citizen has and what rights he has in the Czech Republic, so does theirs. That's what I was talking about when I was talking about equality. And as for growth, so here, in the mandate of last government, the minimum wage was 754 kn and the average 1150 figures do not lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12257	Thank you very much, let's move on, the last replica of the distinguished representative Kuzmanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12258	Thank you, Vice President. I listened carefully to your presentation, I will quote you, you say "some companies in Varazdin could not work if it wasn't workers from BiH, Serbia", and that is true but not because 100,000 jobs were opened in Croatia but because 300,000 people moved out of Croatia in search of a better tomorrow. Because in the first 10 years of your rule you almost destroyed everything that could have been destroyed by the Croatian economy, from our companies that existed and then you did everything so that our labour force was a cheap workforce in the Western EU countries, so now we need a new need to import cheap labour from a neighbouring country. And I have to agree here with my colleague Peović, yes, this will do nothing but crash the labour market with us and reduce the labour price, in fact, question whether workers in our country are more and exist after all important companies and strategic companies have been sold and released to foreign management.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12259	Thank you, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12260	So now we have the opportunity to compare two former governments, one HDZ, another SDP. So the SDP government didn't know what a surplus was. Every year on the deficit. She didn't know what GDP growth was. She didn't know what the new job was. And now that you have concrete figures and numbers do not lie, it means in the term of last Prime Minister Plenkovic's government, GDP has grown, budget surpluses every year and 100,000 new jobs. That's comparable. So on the one hand we have the government of SDP, all minus zero, nothing, and on the other hand we have the government of HDZ, all in plus and growing. So such numbers, arguments, statistics, I think we should discuss here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12261	Thank you. You have another replica, but before that, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the injury has been reported by the distinguished representative Kuzmanic, please, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12262	I'm going to take a warning right away, I've abused the Rules of Procedure because I couldn't answer it, it's true that our government may not have known what a surplus was, but also that surplus didn't put them in bags and carry them to customs and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12263	My colleague Kuzmanić, without an article, you are aware that through the replica you have misused the de facto Rules of Procedure, but since I did not give it to a respected colleague of the Troskot, I will not do it to you this time, but don't really repeat it. And the last reported replica of your presentation is that of the distinguished MPs Maximchuk, here you go, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12264	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, we see that the new bill that the Government no longer signs those annual quotas for the import of workers, goes to another new mode, I think it is better because it is shorter and it is definitely improved, but what I think is most important is that the employer will first look for the domestic labour market, so this model does not bypass the Croatian domestic labour force, only in the event that these labour force is not available on the domestic market, will be joined by issuing work permits and residence permits, so I do not see how we are discussing it here today, that domestic labour forces will be bypassed, or our Croatian workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12265	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12266	Thank you, colleague Maximchuk. That's right, so hiring a foreign worker goes in two steps. First, the employer must carry out a labour market test or see if such labour force exists on the domestic market. Only after that goes the second phase and it's more or less related to national security, means to see if that worker meets certain security and all other checks, that he can come to us and work here but it's interesting to watch again, fellow workers that no one mentions the rights of these foreign workers. No one's discussed it today. And this law foresees that, among other things, for them and free legal aid, protection, the foundation of human rights and everything else. Therefore, when we look at the law as a whole, I think it is indeed one of the better laws that we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12267	Thank you very much, since you don't have any more replicas. Thank you, thank you. [[Intruder Striker: I congratulate you on the presidency.]] A fiery baptism. The next individual debate is that of distinguished representative Eric Fabianic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12268	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I used to debate on behalf of the club and now I'd like some personal observations and they're not a replica, but one part of what was handed over by a part of the speaker essentially solves with the SDP amendment. Yes, we'll assess how much this affected the labour market and the labour price in a year, but in any case, I think this is better and fairer than what we've had so far under certain conditions that I mentioned before. I'm going to look back at something that's not there, it can be part of the matter of this law, and it doesn't have to, and it's not about foreigners, or it's about foreigners, but it's about a special form of foreigners. And I would like to draw attention to this by some civilizational reach of one, something that is humane and what is happening to our foreigners who will come here to work as many of our Croatian citizens who work abroad, and these are those member states that are not covered.../incomprehensible/... through this debate I want to draw attention to. We don't have a bilateral social insurance agreement with the United States, and with Switzerland, we were legal followers of the former SFRY under which you had to have at least 10 years of training to get a proportionate share of the Swiss pension, of course the health care part wasn't covered. In order to reduce these retirement conditions, we have entered the EU and an agreement is applied between the EU and the Swiss Confederation by working a year or more to obtain a proportionate portion of the Swiss pension. And we fought for it because the EU is strong, because it has launched an international dispute where it must be recognised to Croatian citizens, because the Swiss Confederation has persistently refused to do so because it considered that the agreement applies only to the member states that apply before the signing, and not after the signing, but therefore, and knowing about, this one does not do to another what I do not want to do to you, so when we know it is, Croatia is, therefore, Croatian citizens are the same countries of immigration as we do to immigration, a very similar fate as Italy. So we too will have to think someday for one human reason, even through certain solutions that some member states already have outside. If people come to us from Nepal, from the Philippines, we don't have a social security contract with them, we either have to think about it or decide what Germany used to have, but also the Swiss Confederation, which means if you've worked less than 10 years, those paid contributions have to be returned to you in order to get you an internship in your own home country, in your country of origin. It's something that's the easiest thing to say, ah happens to the Croats who fill other people's registers and make it happen to our foreigners who will also fill this one in our pension insurance account. It's something that in the foreseeable future if we're civilized and a human country we'll have to start thinking about. Here, so much because everything I meant to say about this law I said on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12269	Thank you very much. We continue with individual debates, next is the distinguished representative Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12270	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, when we have a law like this, then I think we should all ask ourselves a basic question as to what is the meaning and purpose of this law and the context in which this law is passed. So I'm gonna start at the end a little bit and a little from the beginning. So, not long ago, we had quotas that we still have today, but those quotas were about a year's worth of construction workers in the 500th century, for tourism workers as much and then even employers didn't even need to meet those quotas. I remember a meeting led by the esteemed Chancellor Merkel, who addressed the group from Croatia at the meeting and asked us next. What do you do in Croatia that we don't take all the quality of your workforce because we're going to do it, you've trained her, you have her, but you can't pay them as much as we can pay her, and what do you do to prevent it or who have some kind of model? Of course, we all got our heads down, covered in our ears because there was no answer. We don't have that answer today either. That answer, therefore, I absolutely think that this country needs one quality immigration policy and I think it is needed and I think that its element is in one development or development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Because let's ask ourselves what kind of country we want in 2030, because this law is really just putting out the fire we're having right now. What kind of country do we want in 2030, which is tomorrow, but another key question should be what kind of country do we want in 2050? What are we gonna do in this country? Are we going to develop agriculture, are we going to develop IT technologies, are we going to develop a pharmaceutical industry, are we going to develop a service industry? What kind of tourism will we develop? Will Croatia be interesting for pensioners of other EU countries, so they will come and spend an entire year on the Adriatic in some facilities or hotels that we haven't reconstructed or something? So that's the question we should have. We at the little door here again through the art. We're introducing 246 quotas in a certain way. Those quotas are very simple... We can even define that when we know which development policy we have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At this point, what kind of country we want in 2050, and what development policy that is, we don't have the answer to that, and at this point we can't be a stepmother to our inhabitants of the Republic, but we need to be aware of a few things. That in tourism, if we want to develop it, we need labour. Look, people are calling a contest for, I know for a hotel, I have to admit, it was at the time before the crown, but let's kind of make sure that this law is out of that context for cleaners, who have been paid extremely well. Three thousand, I'm sorry, 300 people answered, two came to talk, none of them agreed to work. It's a real condition. The real state of construction, so I usually follow construction, construction senses recession first, first senses exit from recession. From this pay phone I have not spoken many times and I will talk about the restoration of the city of Zagreb because it is a new opportunity for the development of construction. I see from my balcony at home how the renovation is done, how people work and how they come in one morning 4 workers work, and the other morning those 4 are gone, but the next 3 come in, let's see how much we need at this time labor in health and in certain institutions which, therefore, to simplify, in homes for older and powerless who have those teams for 2 weeks and so on. It's our real condition. So, this Foreign Law should certainly be looked at in terms of the development policy of the Republic of Croatia because if we know what the development policy of the Republic of Croatia is, then we'll know how many quotas we're going to enter in high school, which quotas we're going to enter in colleges, what we're going to scholarship from domestic labour force, but then we'll know what by the workforce we need to import. And the model, the way and how, the technical stuff we're going to define. So this Foreign Law was, we absolutely need it, but I would love it if we had it for the development strategies of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12271	Thank you, well-respected representative of the Dark-Taritash. I'm just warning you, I'll keep an eye on the weather in the future. You have one replica, distinguished representative Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12272	Thank you, Vice President. You've noticed very well, colleagues Mrak-Taritash and this question asked by Chancellor Merkel is extremely important, and why is it important? Here, I'll read to you what the nurses pointed out, those 7.5 thousand who left the Republic of Croatia as a reason for their departure. Dissatisfaction, which is one of the main motives of hard working conditions, and these difficult working conditions are due to insufficient number of employees, due to the lack of employment of new sisters, due to the inability to make progress in the profession towards the level of education and work experience and numerous unpaid overtimes. It is unfortunately our reality which is very much affecting us now in this health crisis and I am glad that you have opened the issue of this strategy that is extremely important because this law is only one leg of that tripod that will fall apart without the right strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12273	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12274	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I'm kind of experiencing this time, a very unusual era of the crown crisis, the coronary crisis has shown us a few things, shown us the weaknesses that we knew about, but it has shown what the scales of these weaknesses are and are particularly the proportions of the weaknesses in health. And now and in this law, we introduce the obligations and duties of the HZZ. At the moment you're on HZZ, I think a colleague is doing it in free speech and speaking, you have some health care professionals who are educated, who are there, who are not employed, who could be activated by the situation we have. I don't think they can work as someone who has long experience, but some jobs can work. So everyone in that part must participate with their knowledge and experience Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12275	The next individual debate is that of distinguished MPs Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12276	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, it is a law that best illustrates an autocolonial perspective. It is not true, Secretary Katic, that it is some law-abiding, as you told me in response, you also mentioned yesterday on the Labour Committee that the Law on References, a law that we take over through EU legislation, is right here to reduce the possibility of a dumping price. Labour prices, for Western rich countries, because it has no effect on us, so we import, so to speak, import, as counterpart Fabianic said, 1/4 of the EU workforce. So it's a law that we're just taking over, but that law is beautifully illustrating double criteria. So when it comes to European laws, this means Denmark, Germany and Sweden are protecting themselves, so they are protecting themselves in the best possible way, equating the working conditions of foreign workers and domestic workers, that means equal minimum wage, equal pay for collective agreements that in those countries are almost 90% coverage of collective agreements, for example, in Austria, with us, we almost practically no longer have a collective contract, and they by, ensure that agency workers have the same conditions as all the other workers. We would not benefit too much from such a criterion because our minimumer is none, but that is why we have proposed that we put a provision in this law that determines that the worker who comes to Croatia is a foreign worker and that we should receive an average fee in that branch, so let us try to protect it means that our people are also staying here, not that the same jobs work in foreign rich EU countries, and here we are importing labour. Another thing, so what this law has shown is that absolutely double standards and insufficient interest in keeping young people who have moved out of this country in their country, so in a country where most people work for a minimum wage, not a minimum salary, but a salary that is below 15,000 means gross, 90% of the workers work for a salary that is below 15,000 gross, we should really imagine whether abolishing the quota system is something that suits us? So the odds are as much as they've maintained some kind of labour price. And it can be statistically proven. So in 2018, when we had much lower quotas than in 2019 when they rose to over double there was something less, something small growth, means labour prices in Croatia. Therefore, the quotas and here I will answer what my colleague Strick did not want to answer, two of us asked him, so whether the abolition of the quotas will raise the labour price, or whether the elimination of the quotas in, when harvesting fruit in agriculture will reduce the labour force price or at best stagnate, it has been demonstrated, that the abolition of quotas will certainly not help to increase the labour price. Of course, then we'll get an answer here that employers don't have money, so they don't have the money to raise prices and there aren't enough workers to work for that price. Well, that's not true at all because we know that the largest number of workers from third countries in Croatia, they are construction workers, they are mainly workers from BiH, Serbia, Northern Macedonia. In the building, colleagues and colleagues, profits are huge and it is not true that employers cannot increase labour prices, exactly the opposite. So here we fully liberalize the imports of labour with this current, so the provision that instead of having quotas means asking for a labour test, the employer can ask if there is a worker in a particular branch, and if the worker does not exist at the Employment Office can introduce the worker, and we can almost say as much as he wants. In that sense, how many of these workers can be introduced, I will propose an amendment on the subject, which means the percentage of workers that can be imported. I really don't understand why this percentage was put to 25%, so up to 25% must be from the EU or Croatia, from the EU's economic space, I think it would be 50% minimum because I guess in this Eurozone We have so many workers in Europe that we don't have to import them. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12277	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Peović, stay a while, your presentation has caused one replica, that distinguished representative Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12278	Thank you very much. My colleague Peovic, therefore, I deliberately mention the building because it is clear to everyone. About how much profits are in the building or not, certain companies or individual employers will know. But what we must say now clearly, we have exhausted the pool of the countries of the former Yugoslavia. If you make such a long procedure, we, the workers come to us only as a road stop to go to other EU countries is there going to get more than they will get from us. So now, if we want to make a swing in the economy, we have to decide something. So, I always think that these laws should be and that no one should ever be a stepmom to a domestic employee to say so or to an employer. But if the employer, when he drags the worker in from somewhere and we put so many criteria on him, this one goes away, goes somewhere else, goes to the extreme not only to Italy and Austria but also to Bulgaria and Romania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12279	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12280	Thank you, Anka, I say, I'll answer a few things. So the first thing we have is 14% of the working-age evicted population, we have to deal with that problem. The second thing, the union's comments on this law were all negative and precisely from the point of view that the trade unions warned that the employers were being handled here and that under the pressure of employers who have been trying to remove quotas for years, went after this solution. This solution certainly does not fit the people who emigrate from Croatia, but what's most ridiculous is actually it shows a sad fact, and the trade unions thus formulated that we don't really need an employer who can't pay a worker a minimum labour price or did they ask us if we need such an employer? Of course you can't get rid of it like this. There are many other ways to solve the incompetence of our economy, but this is very symptomatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12281	Thank you very much. That's it. We're going to the next individual debate, that distinguished representative of Ante Kujundzic, we're going back to the video link, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12282	Here's the President. It's nice to see you. Some more lively colors at the assembly chair. In fact, once in Croatia, and especially in my Dalmatia, everything that could have been shut down from the drive has been extinguished, and when in fact there are just over 65,000 people left out in the worst years of my life, and what didn't go out, we are going to pass some foreign law that is true on the one hand, our obligation as members of the EU. However, what I think is devastating is that we bring it without quotas that will actually make Croatia a country that will be open to foreigners, and has long been closed to domestic workers and the dignity of the same at least. It's logical that strangers will work and will not object. They will not object because in Croatia they will be as well as our good in Germany, Ireland or not to list all the countries where we actually moved. If we do not legally frame and protect the salaries and existing jobs and workers of the same, I fear it will be too late to realize that, by practicing undefined quotas of foreign workers, we have actually come into danger and a direct downsizing of the labour price, as here has already been mentioned by a large number of our fellow Members from the Parliament, who, even now, does not know how much. This approach actually defines Croatia as a country that does not value workers or values those who actually create this country. So after making a strategy, we first legislatively protect the few people who work and create in this country and then we deal with foreigners. For example, for example, let us charge VAT for the bill and not for the invoice in that account because it is more than clear and visible how due to the large number of charges we have lost the good part of the larger corporations that have already moved or announced the actual relocation of business outside Croatia. Then we have a crazy legal obligation to pay for keeping some documentation of failed entrepreneurs and craftsmen who have extinguished their crafts, but neatly at the monthly level, they have to pay for the same building, for example, it seems to me that not about 25 kn per metre. And I don't want to pick up everything else. In fact, we can observe through pink glasses but also what we're all actually more or less aware of far from it. Did we redefine the question of social rights for the unemployed even though it is a public secret that actually social assistance receives far more people than those whose social assistance is a form of real need? And not only that, but besides receiving social assistance, they also work in the gray zone of the economy. No, we haven't removed this practice, but that's why we're going to open up the labour market to those who come from countries with a worse standard, which, as such, will work and shut up grateful for some form of cooking every day. The only place where, in fact, care and protection about the unemployed is being taken care of in this country and where we are imprisoned by foreigners but by those parties, are those with a card that's stuck to some election posters, so they need to be taken care of whether they're in local or regional administration or state service. This type of practice has long been known to everyone in Croatia. And finally, when we pass this law, in fact, the key question as such should be whether we, with a bill like this, will initially introduce cheap labour or will set ourselves as a goal, attract educated and young foreigners? And on the other hand, are we going to put, as a priority goal, the protection of the locals in a capable domestic workforce? Normally, we from MOST are for one free Croatia, one open and one inclusive Croatia, but before that we are for Croatia who loves, who protects and who is actually jealous of its own. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12283	Thank you, Your Honor. At your presentation there is no replica, so let's move on, the last individual reported debate at this point on the agenda is she of the distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12284	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. In five minutes, there's really only one more word and nothing more than that, and it's not that God knows how to explain it. I would refer to the first reading here only to something that seems very important and important to me and it's about art. 246 which is mentioned in this law, I suppose, as an obligation given to this highest legislative and executive representative body in our country, to finally adopt a serious migration policy in Croatia and a strategy that Croatia has not had in 30 years. And we are in this regard the only European country that does not have such a document. There have been some attempts in particular at the time of EU accession negotiations and the adoption of a one-year document, but with us migration immigration policy the championship has been treated as a question that we see regulated through the over-use exclusively through the MUP as something that is related to penal policy, excess, illegal migration, asylum problems, etc., so it is completely forgotten. That the state of the nation cannot end its constitution without one such strategic document called migration policy or strategy. There is no Croatian state, no nation without such a document. So it's an emergency we have to have. With the right of her colleague Taritas, she warned that one of the key reasons why we don't have him is that in Croatia we don't really know which direction we're going in, what we want to do with this country, what the vision of Croatia is, at least in the next 10 years, not to say 20 or 30 years, these are issues that are of first-rate importance. When we had some goals, we remember, instrumentalally actually related to integration into Euro-Atlantic and integration, etc., creation, state-building, the story worked. At this point, we don't know except for this state-of-the-art, so this social element is terribly inefficient, and we don't really know what we want with this country to do. The second reason why we do not have a migration strategy is precisely today marked especially in some discussions. I'm not going to single anyone out right now, but I'd say there's a set of stereotypes and prejudice both right-wing populistly and trade unionally left to say a populist event that's proven by nothing to be perpetuated and repeated for decades that actually hides a nonorous xenophobic line in itself. So we need to know that Croatia cannot be a small isolated point, we are part of a great Europe, we are a country that has a huge diaspora. We are a country that loses its population, which has a negative migration balance and we need to establish mechanisms to regulate the issue of the arrival of those people we need in this country. This is where the question arises, oh, my God, the foreigners are coming to us, so they're going to take our jobs. No, foreigners don't take Croatian jobs, as the Croats did in the 1960s, the Portuguese, the Yugoslavs, I don't know, and the Spanish took the Germans. These jobs the Germans no longer wanted to work on the baustel. In Croatia these jobs, the labour market is segmented,... There are good jobs, solid jobs, jobs that, which are well paid, are safe and domicile, those who come, fill the places of those jobs that are too generous, less paid, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a situation that we can't avoid, we can talk to whatever we want, about injustice, global, global, etc., but it's processes. The Croats don't want any more, which one of us will raise his child and say, learn, be good, and someday you'll be the aunt's maid at the hotel. It is no longer a challenge for anyone in Croatia. In Croatia seven carpenters are registered this year. We can do whatever we want to talk about, we don't have those people and we need to find a way for these people because the processes will go uncontrollably and without ours, without our will. Here. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12285	Thank you, well-respected representative Vidovic, you have no replica. And now, at the very end, the final presentation on behalf of the promoter will be held by the distinguished Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Zarko Katic, please welcome state secretaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12286	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice President. As it is said, the law on foreigners is a complex law. It has adopted different regulations, directives and EU decisions. It may seem a little unconsistent and difficult to follow, but it is often called on by an article in another article and should be really persistent in that reading in order to get it right. However, it obviously regulates or can contribute to the regulation of certain issues that are very important for our future, and it is true that some MPs here have said about what we are discussing here and what we are about to adopt, in a good part it can determine our future in the years to come, not just for decades, but decades. We, however, must all work on it, so it is not this, as Mr. Vidovic or some other MPs have said, a law proposed by the government, but not the law of the MUP, it is not a law that requires us to address some outstanding, individual issues but one systematic policy. Our need for immigration happened to us. If we could react better, we didn't, there are things that are objective and subjective. These, in the end, and there were more governments, cannot always be accused of just one government, there were in these under-full 3 decades of Croatian independence there and other governments which are also, bearing their part and responsibilities or... the way anyone looks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To me, we have to admit, even though it is now a personal touch, as you said, it's carved up a demonstration that was before, I think 17 years old, about curriculative reform. There was one, many were,... a variety of remarks, therefore, panoi and one was written on “Earth of Oria” and then that “or” crossed and written “z” as “the land of knowledge”. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, the land of knowledge is very desirable, but for God's sake, the land of eagles is also desirable, we live off the nuts. If, as a population, as a people for decades, we flee from the eagles, then it happens that there is no one to harvest grapes, mandarins, even when we plant something, there is no one to harvest fruit. So, on the question, I mean, MP Peovic, whether the abolition of quotas, whether the abolition of quotas will lead to a drop in labour prices, absolutely not, so whoever needs to pick up his vineyard or mandarins, he will pay either his neighbour who does not have them, who has time, who is unemployed, or will pay for a foreign worker, and the state should allow the mandarins and grapes not to remain defenseless. I don't know how many times I have to repeat, so this Law on posted workers regulates the wage ratio of workers from one country to another, so he wouldn't be, in order for him to be unfair, uncompetitive, so that someone would not bring in, for example, Austrian or German workers from Croatia, those foreign workers he introduced on the basis of the quota that this government has issued and offered to pay there, for example, I don't know of 1200 euros, and the salary is on that market, I don't know, 2200. We, our laws know the same pay for the same work and here, I asked my colleague, the head of the service, when it comes to construction workers, you have salaries that are very beautiful and reach and these five-digit numbers, and there are those that are really bad and that each of us will say are not worthy of work. It depends on the company and its employer and its success in the labour market. It was, I've already pointed out maybe not enough, there was a quota abuse, so I'm going to say an example. A foreigner from some of us neighbouring countries is setting up a company J.D.O.O. And he's looking for a quota and he gets 50, I don't know, construction workers and these workers then he transfers them to other countries. Is that our goal, is that what it's accomplishing? Now this worker will have to prove, this employer will have to prove that he has business activity, that he has certain contracts and jobs here and will not be able to win, so he will have to do so, he will seek before Croatian workers, so this possibility of abuse despite the ingenuity of certain people will still be very, very reduced and disabled. The question about, maybe I can't answer all the individual ones and I won't, but let's just say the digital nomads that have been mentioned here by a few MPs, their ability to reach their family members, it's only possible to read the whole law. Persons on a temporary stay may be brought by family members, and part of them cannot be digital nomads are among those who will be able to bring family members, but according to the time limit on which they can get a work permit. What Mr Stier mentioned in his address, and we allow easier arrival of emigrants, Croatian emigrants, to make it easier to regulate permanent stay for certain categories, such as underage children to follow the fate of their parents, not to wait 5 years. to get a permanent stay, then to get citizenship. So we allow all those categories that already live here, which have been integrated to make Croatian citizenship easier, or in this case permanent stay, and then Croatian citizenship. The Latin American market is mentioned, it may be a good example for those countries of origin that are desirable for Croatia. But we, I remind you, allow members of the Croatian people or Croatian emigrants, their descendants no matter where they live or in Latin America to gain Croatian citizenship. And it's not true that Mr. Troscott said he was harassing them with too long paperwork, perhaps some particular case where there's something not clear or coordination is not good, but I can prove to you that we are hundreds of people this year, for example from Latin America, that we have granted them Croatian citizenship and that it lasted several weeks to several months, not a longer period. We have received a lot of amendments, thanks to all those who have responded, we will each carefully consider and we will try to make this text and ultimately make this law as good as possible for the benefit of the Croatian economy and society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-11-0.u12287	Thank you, too. This concludes today's debate on this agenda point, and we will vote when the conditions are met. But this has exhausted the agenda for today's session. Tomorrow we start at 9.30 a.m. with a plenary session, on the agenda is so-called. a package of tax laws. I wish you a pleasant rest of the day and I'll see you tomorrow. SESSION Interrupted at 16,42 hours
