ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187660	Good afternoon, everyone. It is up to: - Proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection rules and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 844 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would Mr. Secretary of State Zdenko Lucic of the Ministry of Economy like to take his word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187661	Thank you. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs. Allow me to present to you the proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council on cooperation between the national authorities responsible for implementing consumer protection rules and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2006/2004. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Regulation applies exclusively to cross-border infringements of rules within the Union, extended infringements and widespread infringements with a Union dimension, which is applied or likely to harm the collective interests of consumers. The aim of this Regulation is to strengthen the already existing system of cooperation between Member States and their national competent authorities responsible for monitoring and enforcement of consumer protection rules, by ensuring conditions for effective coordination and cooperation between the different competent authorities participating in the network established by Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004, and in situations of violations of the rights of a greater number of consumers. The Regulation also enables effective coordination between other public legal authorities at Member State level, and this will be achieved by setting out single liaison offices whose task is mutual cooperation in cases of consumer rights violations on the single market. This means that, for the purposes of investigative actions, the regulation provides for the cooperation of all public authorities with powers and can contribute to an effective investigation of consumer rights violations. In addition to that provision of minimum powers for investigation and enforcement, the effective application of the Regulation and the faster and more effective cooperation of competent authorities at both national and cross-border level and ultimately affecting the deterrence of traders from committing infringements covered by the Regulation and ensuring that traders who do not comply with consumer protection regulations do not use gaps by moving their operations to Member States whose competent authorities are not equipped to resolve illegal practices. Furthermore, the regulation lays down that it is necessary to designate bodies in each Member State which have the necessary expertise and information on consumer rights violations, which will have the power to issue external warnings on infringements covered by this Regulation. Finally, the Regulation provides for effective proportionate and dissuasive sanctions for infringements covered by this Regulation. This sets out the State Inspectorate as a single liaison office, which will be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the Regulation. The authorities responsible for the implementation of the Regulation shall be designated and the authorities concerned shall be empowered by the regulation in order to enable the competent authorities to take the necessary measures to prevent such infringements in accordance with the nature and severity of the infringement. The Department for the European Consumer Centre, acting within the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, shall be designated as the body responsible for issuing external warnings to the competent authorities for the implementation of the Regulation. Effective proportionate and dissuasive infringement provisions shall be laid down for the conduct of the anti-registration regulation. By removing barriers to cross-border trade through this law and contributing to increasing consumer rights as well as trust in e-commerce at the level of the single market and to protecting competition, thus providing an incentive environment for economic growth within the EU's single market. The adoption of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection rules and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187662	Thank you, too. The first line has Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187663	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Certainly when we talk about a stimulating environment for economic growth, especially if we think about the Republic of Croatia, then it's something that we could develop a broader discussion about. However, what I am now interested in is art. 5. the competent authorities are listed and the CNB has already warned in a public debate that it does not have the tools to exercise certain powers under this law, can these bodies really exercise all the powers given to them by this law? It is true that in the Republic of Croatia according to the data is a small number of online purchase users, 4th place is among EU members, 4th from the back, only 40% we have online customers, and I will not, of course, pollomise whether it is good or bad, in my opinion even at this point and good, but will these bodies, if the number of online customers is increased, be able to carry out the tasks you have given this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187664	Time, answer, if you want, if, if, I mean, it's not necessary, if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187665	Okay, I think that the bodies will be at the level of the task, and this increase in consumer rights will certainly contribute to this greater activity of Croatian citizens in online shopping.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187666	Thank you very much. Mr. Kira's second replica has another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187667	Dear Vice-President, dear secretary, in or in the debate on change and.../incomprehensible law we are discussing consumer rights violations, but we must also talk in this light about violations of the rights of traders or the right to give up by consumers on certain goods. The right to give up could be inapplicable because of the nature of the goods and services. For goods whose value depends on market fluctuations, the right to give up should not be appropriate to goods manufactured according to the specifications required by the consumer, and also not giving up is not good for services, for example when booking in hotels, when booking holiday houses, cultural and sporting events where then it seems to be a damage to the trader. So that's what we need to talk about. Talk. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187668	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening the debate first, and why does the second one say yes? Mr. Miro Bulj is, will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187669	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, consumer protection is a very important issue, and of course on the market where we are, and this regulation means that it wants to regulate or improve consumer protection in the EU and means within the country. We could talk a lot about consumer protection, and there's a lot going on in the market because simply when we enter the EU on the market, you mentioned an increase in economic growth, that this regulation will ensure an increase in growth in what I would like to believe, and that we believe that it will be better to live in Croatia. However, the fact is that consumers in the Republic of Croatia pay for products much more expensive than in other countries, and in fact, in other EU countries, the same community. So our consumers are not already in conception, at first they are not identical with consumers who are in other EU countries. We can also talk about telecommunications services, not only on-line services, but also all the meaning of services, let's say, telecommunication because it's the fact that teleopers have much higher prices in us than in other countries, mostly where teleopers come from, and I think it's the most unsettled area because we suck out huge money and we can even talk about bankers, where banks take 4 billion kuna per year on fees and fees to our citizens, 4 billion kuna per year. We have about 500 of these fees even the CNB only last year published these fees, fees, the number of these fees, fees, so that in one single market all consumers should be the same. The same conditions, but the fact that in RH chocolate which in Germany is much cheaper and much more quality, only the same cellophane, is much more expensive in the Republic. And this market and consumer protection through the regulation brought here is intended to protect the consumer, as well as that the trader knows how to behave in certain services sales, services or goods, I believe that this area of Croatia is only to be managed. We now chair the EU, with this often boasting, and the question is whether we are as legal as consumers within the EU, very Croatian citizens. This issue is a key issue, and I believe that this government, the Ministry of Economy, should talk about it on its panels now that we are chairing the EU on the need for equalising the rights and equality of all consumers in the EU, without Croatia being only a market for expensive goods. Is the fact that this affects our economy in agriculture so in all others, in agriculture if we only talk about agriculture then we could see how much we import food products and how much the economy is, and only because of what the Republic of Croatia has become since it joined the EU has become exclusively and only the market for their goods, goods from other members, this country. I think the Government of the Republic of Croatia should send a strong message to protect our consumers and our economic growth, and even more so in these crises, because these crises that are emerging because of the root of the virus, that the Croatian government or any crisis that may affect the economic downturn, the economic downturn of the Tribal is brave to seek EU support to protect both its producers and its consumers. Because we're just the market and the surpluses of goods that come here and we even have proof, i.e. that much less quality goods are much more expensive in Croatia than for example. in Germany, and we're the same as the market. When we talk online then we can talk about there's all kinds of scams. I've recently watched it seem to me on a agricultural show that people online bought even expensive agricultural machines that were never delivered to them, but they were paid. So this area is unregulated, it will give this regulation and with all these bodies that are now established within the ministry, so that this law is implemented in reality, I think about consumers, citizens of Croatia, we ate all consumers, there is no one who is not a consumer, so I think that our market from teleoperators to all other services, especially when I would like to base myself here on teleopers, we pay more expensive services than in other EU countries. No matter how much more liberal their infrastructure is set by teleopers, much less pay the costs, the example here in Croatia should be much cheaper use of mobile phones and payment of mobile services because you do not need a building permit, but also vice versa. The largest profit in the EU from the funds we pay and our citizens for use, the biggest profit is teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia. HT has, i.e. Deutsche Telekom is a sister company of 42%, and in the EU 20% is a margin or profit. Therefore, we have liberalised all these companies that provide services to our citizens, it is more expensive for our citizens than in other EU countries, mainly where teleopers come from and, of course, that some money is being drawn there. So it's a wide story about consumer protection and the protection of our producers in fact within the EU, isn't it necessary for consumers to have a farmer who will earn and have money and who will be able to use the Internet or buy a machine for his money, not to be defrauded and deceived? Therefore, this is a broad story, but while we are preside over the EU I see that we are talking about a number of problems, I see that, but Croatian citizens are as consumers in a much more unfavourable position than other EU members, it is a fact and even our euro-parliamentaries have said that certain food products are much more expensive in our country, and they are not the same quality as in the countries where these food products are produced. Therefore, I have read this directive or the EU regulation, I see that you have bodies here, you have listed all these authorities of the CNB, here's what will control these CNBs. The CNB did not control, what it controls, the only thing that can cast out information on how many people from Croatia have moved out on the basis of the money they paid. Did the CNB perhaps inform us that there was money laundering at Zagreb Bank? Money laundering. I think he had this institution in which we must trust that he will conduct with the governor that he will implement and implement this law that we are passing. And now that the information has come that banks in Croatia are used to launder money, so how will the consumer who uses their services feel? We simply gave our legislation so much to foreign banks, foreign teleopers, we gave everything, but to the harm of our consumers. At least that the market benefits our consumer, that we are at least the same as the other consumers in other countries. But we didn't, you know that well if you can deny me, I'd like you to deny us. We have here a Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, this agency should be used for control, but does it work? We have a Croatian network agency that recently had the same room, shared a room in the same building with HT. Yes, this name should be used to protect our consumers, and I think it's more about protecting these foreign companies. which we use services. I've often talked about it, I've even made legislative proposals so that these agencies, here when we mention the Regulatory Agency for Network Activities and other of these, here's the Coastal Liner Maritime Traffic Agency or if we're going to talk about road traffic, whether our consumers, here's an example I'm going to give you, I've talked about it several times, to consumers or consumers. Our country local self-government, the ministry of power, the county is funded by the transport of students, and when we subsidize the transport of students we expect our students, our children as users of these services to drive, transport on buses that are in somewhat normal conditions, but every month a bus in my Cetina region burns down, only in the Cetina area as old as it is. So we didn't protect absolutely anything, we let the mechanics know that the money paid by the citizens or paid from the budget not to get services for what was paid. We children risk not letting God burn, only by the skill of the driver remain alive. Is that a favor? So, we have all these issues on the market, we have problems, we haven't protected our producers, we haven't protected our consumers, we've only prescribed regulations as well as it seems the smartest thing we've ever done is to protect our consumers of these producers today would have domestic production, and we wouldn't import more than EUR 3 billion of food products, of which most pork and who knows what quality and who controls that quality. Scissor goods, shrimp goods, means mostly what's their waste, what they don't need coming to us. I have mentioned countless times, in our domestic production I will mention what is loved most in election campaigns and what is most missing is lamb. At one point when malls appeared, chains in the Republic of Croatia in this form in which we now have, there appeared from Australia a lamb that was i.e. New Zealand 10 kuna frozen, from, from New Zealand only transport 10 kuna, and our manufacturer, cattleman, under EUR 10 is not worth the production. Who controlled those bosses at the time, which is food, which is a quality, and it is not funny fellows, but the fact that we no longer have shepherds, cattlemen, cattlemen, well, you who are under the lights here in Zagreb think that it all starts and ends with Zagreb, and with the origin of those parts, it is a question of you and your relationship with those parts that we have 2/3 of RH, as we speak, while we talk, colleague Maras you are nervous, we talk about this panflette, 2/3 RH are empty, and you laugh at me all the time and you throw yourself at me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187670	I'm giving you support.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187671	What you're giving me no, thank you very much, you give yourself support and to those around you, I would ask you to this, when I speak...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187672	One more break-in and a warning, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187673	Once again, I believe that the Ministry of Economy, the competent authorities, is, above all, now that we are talking about the economy, Prime Minister Plenkovic. When we talk about consumer protection, traders in the Republic of Croatia would then ask you that no matter what this regulation is, will not be implemented in the Republic of Croatia, nor is it implemented, we bring this up so that we can boast that we have brought in another regulation, nor is it the NHB's concern, nor is HANFA, nor is HERA, nor is it concerned, nor is it any of these agencies, nor have they worked in the interest of protection and consumers, meaning all citizens and producers in the Republic of Croatia, we have been transformed into a market for bad goods from other countries, and therefore I expect from you as long as the EU is chairman that this government will clearly protect its producers and also consumers to be equal in the EU. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187674	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Don't continue, please. Mr. Šipic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187675	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Here, you have opened a really important topic yourself because, as my predecessor said, my colleague, consumers, we are all consumers and a really important topic in the Republic of Croatia, because wherever we go, wherever we go, wherever we go, wherever we turn, there is a consumer everywhere and there is a single person and person who needs to be approached with a lot of respect, but also the fact that a lot of things should be brought into line with the law, especially if we are in the EU, and we are and if there are a variety of regulations or laws that are still not in place, but in the EU they are, it is necessary to adapt. In that sense, and with this purpose this law and this, this implementation of the regulation. The law implementing the regulation wants to bring our legislation in line with the EU acquis, as I said. Consumers are persons who buy products and consume services offered to them on a particular product or service market at a certain point. Consumer protection is a legal area dealing with the protection of citizens' fundamental rights in the role of consumers in a wide range of businesses in which they supply products and services on the market. Of course, in the Republic of Croatia, consumer protection has been regulated primarily by the Consumer Protection Act. By joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia has become part of the single market. The aim of consumer protection policies in the EU is to guarantee consumer rights in relation to traders and to provide better protection to sensitive consumer groups. The EU lays down rules for the protection of consumer security and rights, including in areas that are rapidly developing such as online energy and financial services supply. It also supports the European Consumer Protection Centres, which provide assistance in cross-border disputes. As a result of the internal market established, but also of technological innovation over time, the need for consumer protection in relation to products and services purchased cross-border, and increasingly through digital communication channels, trade through the Internet is developing so rapidly and extensively that it significantly changes supply and demand relations and thus affects competitiveness in EU markets. The data that says that online purchases in the EU grew faster and faster, on average at an annual rate of more than 20% is something that further contributes to the need for this law to be harmonised, i.e. must be brought and revived as soon as possible. The main categories of products sold via the Internet are consumer goods, such as clothing and shoes, cosmetics, electronic services. Then, there are services used in the real world, such as transport, transportation by airplanes, trains, buses, accommodation during travel, digital content, such as movies, television programs, e-books, online music and video games, diversity and the whole range of these offers and demand is indeed something that requires more and more seriousness and responsible access to all the authorities. This proposal, which is partly and most important for us, provides that the State Inspectorate, as a single liaison office, shall be responsible as the coordinator of the implementation of this Regulation. It is determined that the authorities responsible for implementing the regulation as well as the powers of those bodies, I said the State Inspectorate, there are also the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Agriculture, Health, the Agency for Electronic Media, therefore, the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activity, etc., etc. All in all, it is determined that the competent authority shall issue external warnings to the competent authorities for the implementation of the Regulation, lays down infringement provisions for the conduct of a positive opposite regulation. Effective and proper exercise of rights is as important as the existence of consumer rights. The implementation is mainly carried out by the national authorities. The EU Parliament plays an important role, not only in EU legislation but also in determining a policy programme in the area of consumer protection, by adopting a report on its own initiative. Parliament is particularly active in ensuring greater budgetary resources for measures in areas such as information and consumer financial education and better consumer representation in Member States, with an emphasis on the countries which have joined the EU since 2004. One of the objectives of the smooth functioning of the internal market is to ensure mutual cooperation between competent authorities and the cooperation of competent authorities with other public authorities, all in order to prevent breach of or the possibility of breach of regulations protecting the rights and interests of consumers. Consumer protection holders are, of course, the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Consumer Protection, which is here primarily the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and craft, the competent inspection bodies, then the National Consumer Protection Council, the Consumer Protection Association, the competent inspection bodies, etc. What is very important is that we know that in a significant number of units of local self-government there are no associations operating in the local area, there is a possibility that individual units of local self-government should establish a joint advisory body if the trader provides public services in the area of several units of local self-government as provided for by the Consumer Protection Act. Local self-government units in their area must and should take measures and actions within their jurisdiction for this very important issue. We can also highlight some of the steps that every local unit leader, regional and less, of course, should take. First of all, inform and implement consumer education through associations, organise consumer advice, initiate and support projects of associations that promote and promote consumer rights and, of course, participate in the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme at local level. Finally, this proposal will meet the obligations arising from EU membership. Removing barriers to cross-border trade by adopting the Law on the Implementation of the Regulation will help increase consumer rights, as well as trust in e-commerce in the EU, which will provide an incentive environment for economic growth within the EU's single market. For each commendation, every attempt by the Resord Ministry and all of the mentioned bodies is that through a single whole approach responsible, in every way tries to help all of us who are consumers in any area and to facilitate that as much as possible to curb the illegal market because the illegal market at the same time reduces any economic growth and development, and also, when we see what is being done, especially in this area, and this is the Internet trade, which is all offered and what kind of goods, it will really need both strength and will and determination to suppress that smallest package that suppresses fraud through the smallest package ordered by the individual, person or family in any area. Is it a toy, is it some sort of working household material, needs, any kind of stuff, but we are witnessing and we see through various remarks and inscriptions that every day any fraud in the area of consumer protection is happening. Here, in that sense and on that trail, HDZ i.e. The club will support this proposal for harmonisation of the regulation in the first reading, all for the purpose of improving consumers. Consumer protection, and that's all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187676	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras who will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, at first I must express my dissatisfaction and tell you to pass on to the President of the Croatian Parliament to try to fill the agenda in a way that we do not have any holes in the debates and to try to do a little with the agenda cause more interest among MPs if you would suggest opposition points in the morning, believe me there would be a lot more debate and MPs in the assembly itself, because now here in half an hour will probably end at half 11 and by 12 there will be nothing until the vote. And that something that pisses me off, what angry citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I therefore ask you to pass it on to the President of the Croatian Parliament to take care of it in the future. When we talk about this Proposal for a Law implementing the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on the cooperation of national bodies responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection regulations, it is good to say that this is both the necessary coordination and the law and I would say a regulation that has been made in order to help citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but I agree here with the the thesis that it is not necessary to adopt regulations and laws just to satisfy the form and act as an EU member of law, but to make sure that we really provide certain protection for our citizens regarding consumer protection and the quality of services that they should have regardless of which part of Europe they live. The question now arises whether our institutions, because this is about the appointment of institutions that will implement and coordinate and which are responsible for the implementation of the EU regulation, which is the State Inspectorate, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Agriculture, Health, the Agency for Electronic Media, the Agency for Coastal Linear Maritime Transport, the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, the Croatian Agency for Civil Aviation, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the CNB, which will be coordinated by the State Inspectorate. And now the question is whether these institutions have taken some decisive and significant steps in the near past to give confidence to Croatian citizens to take care of the quality of services and products they use and to protect them in some way in relation to what is unfortunately happening on the market. And the question of the quality of food products is immediately raised. So she has done more than one representative in the European Parliament Biljana Borzana with her limited resources, which she still has, unlike the representatives in the Croatian Parliament, but she has, in her campaign for the quality of food products than the entire Republic of Croatia and all these, all these institutions, ministers, these, those who have to deal with this work, haven't done in the past years how much a European representative has done with her campaign and eventually forcing multinationals and companies to, after the European Parliament has accepted the initiative she has given, and this is the initiative that we all have to use or consume the same products, or produce the same quality regardless of living in Germany, Spain, France or Croatia, and not that in Croatia we have a B quality of products, and in Germany we have a quality of products or in Italy where we come from, say, large food companies. And now the question is why the state has not done such control, which is why the country as a member of the EU Council of Ministers, such as agriculture, former Minister Tolusic or the lady who is now the minister of why it does not give such initiatives and does not fight for consumers in the Republic of Croatia. And I'm only telling you this because I'm trying to draw attention to what we can do if we adopt certain regulations, we name certain coordinate bodies, but if there's no action, if there's no activity of those who should do it and who should protect our fellow citizens there's nothing going to be. Or, for example, here we are talking, now I was talking about the Ministry of Agriculture and the need to control it to put pressure on our consumers not to be second in the EU or, for example, the Croatian Post Office, which is still owned by the Republic of Croatia, which means 100% of the amount that has been charged by the delivery of packages coming from outside the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia, and it should not have and it has been done for months and months until it was discovered. And yet it was not discovered either by the Ministry of Transport, the sea, transport and infrastructure, it was not internal control established by the Croatian Post Office by the users, and then again by the initiative through the European Parliament outside we managed to make it so that people no longer pay for it. So, what I'm saying is that at this point unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, there is no guarantee that these bodies that are listed here or the Inspectorate, so who has confidence in the State Inspectorate, who is led exclusively by the key of the party by Inspector Mikulić, who is in power in the city of Zagreb of Bandic with his hands in the assembly, and now this man who is most important not to make an inspector to measure the citizens and the economy but to get new equipment, new furniture when he sits in that position in small trade between him and Prime Minister Plenkovic in order to calm down Mr. Mikulić and no longer need to be president of the assembly to be Mr. Prgomet, means in this situation who can even trust this State Inspectorate and be sure that they will do quality work. So here I call them from here as we heard yesterday in the debate that protecting our consumers, to get on the ground and see how many base stations there are for the transfer of telecommunications services to the Republic of Croatia set up without a base in legal and spatial regulations. Let some institutions come out, let them not say that they are not competent because no one in that logic is competent, but our citizens feel that if we do not harm a direct one that can be measured given that there is no medical research, this is all now said at the opportunity of what we feel, and we feel that there are certain damages. But the problem is that unfortunately no ministry should react here, and I think the State Inspectorate will not go out on the ground and will not establish it. And on this side, it turns out that Croatia may have entered the EU, perhaps we are part of the most qualitative order of democracy on our planet, but with us, those rules that should be worth what they are worth in some other more developed countries, I would say to the most orderly countries, unfortunately, are not yet worth it. And as it will be worth when the past two weeks will be the main thing in Croatia, at least for those who are in power or who think about it alone, do not think about the threats that are currently happening in the Republic of Croatia, do not think about the quality of life of citizens, but think about who will win the internal elections in the HDZ and it is the only preoccupation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday, all ministers, all MPs, or not all of them, came to the Croatian Parliament to hand over signatures with Prime Minister Plenkovic to show that this is a great force and unity, but today these same representatives are not here. So today these representatives in the Croatian Parliament when we need to discuss the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not have, so they do not care. They are more interested in whether Andrej Plenkovic will have 35, 40 or 28,000 signatures, they are not interested in how he will fight for our consumers, for citizens who are unfortunately left at the mercy of corporations. When you look at, for example, another segment of consumers and consumption, the segment of electrical products means how many people in the Republic of Croatia at the moment the guarantee expires or a few months later experienced a problem with their home appliances, whether it is a refrigerator or a TV set, it was a oven. So in the Republic of Croatia, the times when we've been looking at museum examples of ovens in amazing homes, so you've been surprised to see how it's possible for someone to have a 40, 50-year-old oven that she's still working. Now try to go to anyone and find such a home appliances that will work longer or more sensitively longer or two, three times longer than is prescribed guarantee for such a machine. It usually happens that after the guarantee expires next year, there is usually a defect, a malfunction, and then you have to either go to repairs which, by the way, be said in most cases more expensive than or approximately as expensive as a new machine and then people decide to buy new appliances. And they decide to buy new appliances because no one has done surveillance or looks, nor has it been established, nor has an analysis been made as long and how these appliances have a lifetime and whether, apart from coincidence, there are no random defects or how it is possible to do so in this electronic age, we have products with a lifetime of duration. And if we can't fight corporations that way and we can't control them, we don't have resources, knowledge, etc., you know what we can do? We can make a commitment that the product must last, not five, not seven, but ten or more years. If the product has a malfunction during that period, the manufacturer should be obliged to repair or replace it. And that is something that we should do at EU level to protect our citizens, to have quality products, not only leave that type of regulation to the market because, in time, large producers who are already so big that they are bigger than many countries and more powerful than many countries will be insensitive and will be able to influence their own market movements and their own tools. So what I think should be done and what we think should be done and what again is our representative in the European Parliament Mrs Biljana Borzana announced for a mandate that is now coming before us at European level, but I announce this and at the level of the Republic of Croatia since the next elections, the struggle for consumer safety in that part where unfortunately at this moment you are not sure, and that after 5 years for a relatively expensive apparatus, you will probably lose its quality in the coming year, or it will break down and you will have to re-enter the new purchase and thus you will not have the certainty that something is of quality. In this way I think that many of our people who are looking at us have met this problem, and that is something that should be dealt with, for example, by all the bodies that we have listed here. Unfortunately, I have a feeling they won't be doing it at all. Finally, I will say that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this and once again express dissatisfaction with the fact that the Croatian Parliament is not working, for which I am not responsible, I am the opposition representative, for which neither the opposition nor the SDP Representatives Club is responsible, for this is the power responsible. Dear fellow citizens, what you're looking at right now in HS has no HDZ representative. Not a single one. And, excuse me, a colleague's here now. One HDZ representative in the entire assembly. The parliament's non-functional authority is responsible and therefore needs to be changed as soon as possible by this Parliament and by that authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187678	Okay. Mr Tomislav Žagar in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187679	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. To quote one man, I don't know who said that, but I like him. I think he's even in Harry Potter's movie. It's not the number of followers that matters, it's the strength of conviction for success. We have to be convinced what we're saying, colleague Maras spoke with confidence, and I, too, will try to, colleague Maras, because it seems to me that many of the topics are being relativized in our public space. So does this subject. In fact, we are witnessing that we, I won't say we are, but we encourage children to carry tons of paper to the school to become ecologically conscious, we are talking about bags, but this topic that my colleague Maras has opened is really a question in which we are going, and fellow Maras, we can't, I support you, I don't replicate you, so I'm not breaking the Rules of Procedure, I hope. We can't look at this topic from the context of the world's context, so let me now be accused of being a socialist and thinking against the market, but it's really exactly what my colleague Maras said. In fact, today's technology allows us, believe us, not only today, it was 20 years ago, perhaps more, to produce a car that will 100 years be able to drive, only to perform a service regularly, means change of oil, filters and such a car is possible to produce. But then a question arises who is interested. There's no twists, there's not really a lot of products in the unit of time, there's no profit. Here's one case, one friend, the other day he was at the service, it's a car, so on. The van, whether it's a combined vehicle, 2500 cubic centimeters or a 2.5 engine, a turbotizel that can normally go up to a million miles, should. After 250,000 miles of drive to the service and you know what they told him at the service when they separated him? He says buy a new bike. It's environmental, it's our view of the world. What does that have to do with this? It's a big deal. Now I'm gonna try to explain it. In fact, the 2004 directive was not sufficient, and that is why Directive 2019 was adopted, and this directive is being implemented in this legislative proposal and there is no way that this law should be supported, and that is why you who brought it into the House have the support and therefore should support it. It's just a question of how much this law will live up to. Namely, when we look at the difference between traditional trade and so on. e-commerce or digital trade, the fundamental difference is that, I'm going to use a little bit again from the information concepts from the Windows environment. In a traditional store you have the principle of what you see is what you get. What you see, you get it. But now the concept is changing and then you actually have what you get is what you see. It's only when you get what you've got that you can feel it, check it out, and it's actually the key to the meaning of this law. How to prevent fraud is a fundamental issue in business, as well as in trade, and it says, yesterday we are discussing it, it says on the cars of our police "safety and trust", so this law deals with security and trust. Security is controlled, not only the safety points of the products you get, but the security with payment modes, because Internet trade requires citizens to follow strict instructions so that they are not victims of fraud, so that their personal data is not stolen and used for fraud, in other words, so as not to devastate their bank account. And on the other hand, it's trust, trust in what you actually do, the person you don't see or the economic operator you're dealing with. Here, let me just say, for starters, some of the instructions I found online. What citizens should do if they feel deceived. He says, first they have to object to the merchant, and I don't believe that the trader will do anything. After that, there's an inspection report. Here you need minimum data to be submitted and this application can be made in 3 ways, personally or via mail, whether it is at the address of the Ministry of Economy, via email address or direct login to a link to the Central Information System for Consumer Protection. So these are the things that we can find on the Internet at this time and in this context I see it, and this law, as an improvement of the whole process because it includes a series of bodies that will be, which are designated as competent bodies and in this sense, the Secretary of State asked you myself, not because I had no intention of asking whether these bodies have resources, information devices I already wanted to ask you more about how the relationship with citizens is, will citizens through these bodies really be able to get adequate protection, in other words, whether these bodies have the capacity or time to deal with each individual, individual applications? See, the directive itself has three categories of injuries. So, the injury is within the EU, so that's every injury that has occurred, there's a injury if a responsible trader has a business residence or there's evidence and property of a trader in a country other than the country where the injury occurred, so in the EU, is it? This applies to the directive, not to the country of origin. The widespread injuries are therefore, any action or failure against EU rules which protect consumers, which are either caused or likely to harm the collective interests of consumers in at least two EU countries that are not countries where action or failure has occurred or will happen. And a third case of widespread injury with an EU dimension, that is, with this fraud must be affected by 2/3 of the EU countries. So, you've listed in this law which are the competent authorities, the state inspectorate, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Sea, the transport, well that I don't read, there's also the Ministry of Agriculture. I see that, in the public debate, there is also a question of food safety which is not the subject of this law, because if we look at the number, number of this or the most represented category of products in e-shops in the Republic of Croatia, first of all, the technique and equipment, first of all, are food products and fashion, so clothes. Then we have toys and gifts and children's equipment, furniture, cosmetics, books, films, music, services, food supplements, car motto and all mentioned, while in the EU's field of first place, clothes as the main one is the main one, however. So here and in the public debate when we talk about food that is elsewhere, food products are said to be, however, responsible for that, so it's not just the subject of this law. What can also be found on the Internet, which is important in the context of this law, is, in fact, for the effectiveness of this law, the recommendations that consumer associations give to citizens in order to reduce the risk of fraud. How to check which ones are fake pages because they are not all brands, they are called to famous brands, but let's just say the domains that use the net or the ord often aren't, they're drawn to the fact that it's a fake, fake page. Although the platform is famous, it should not mean that, that all traders with whom it cooperates are also, that they should be trusted, not to believe every offer. You need to find out more about the trader you buy from and sometimes very well look at the comments about this product that is sold on the internet unless they are, it can be recognized if they are not comments that are also staged as a scam to mostly praise the product. And so these, these, these, these, measures that are mentioned or contacted the first trader, and then these bodies are primarily now a state inspectorate if, if I understand the spirit of this law well. It's something that, we're not at the beginning of that process right now, we're in the middle of the process of developing digital technologies, developing Internet or e-commerce, and that's where everything is offered, so from goods, services, through digital products, and this problem is certainly going to be more and more extensive, it's good that we're preparing for it at this point in time. In the Republic of Croatia, we see that only 40% of the purchase is made via, by electronic means, so among the 4 last countries we are by, by that percentage, compared to the EU. And why I said in the replica that it doesn't necessarily have to be bad because in principle it's import products and then for the domestic economy it might be an opportunity to, yes, catch that swing with, with the European economy. So what we can also see from the data is that in the Republic of Croatia a small number, a small number of our businessmen actually use these sales methods, which should be increased so that we are actually competitive on the European market, that would be, that would be the key. And finally to conclude, as far as this law is concerned, our club will certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187680	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Goran, Gordan Maras who will have his own personal individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187681	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187682	Excuse me, Mr. Maras. We welcome the students and pupils of the Zagreb Commercial School here at the gallery, please with applause. ... Here you go, Mr. Maras. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187683	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear students and students. This is a topic that I have already given a lot of, and here on behalf of the club I have presented as, as a very important topic and as something that we should take with, with practical application, not only to take, take the directive or the EU regulation, apply it to the Republic of Croatia, and then end up with none of it happening and that our people, our people, have the same standards or the same protection of consumers as they do in other EU countries. We cited examples, and I cited the personal examples and situations that we had in the past where the state has a lot of resources, where it should be in the interest to protect our fellow citizens in food products, in agriculture, in terms of conditor products, code, for example, in postal products and services, so on this side of the country should react in certain situations, unfortunately this has not happened and usually has a more controversial and individual initiative than the co-ordinated action of state agencies or ministries. So he is once again concerned about the people in the Croatian government in the last 5 years that the activity of one representative in the European Parliament has overshadowed the entire state. It also means the entire Ministry of Agriculture because it is possible that through this initiative Ms. Biljana Borzana we are fighting for our citizens to have the same quality of food products specifically some have joked and called it Biljana Nutella, but it is not a joke that is something for Croatian citizens, it may not be important for Nutella now, but it is important to show that we are not citizens of the second order in the EU and that we are equally valid as the citizens of Italy that represents ours, ours, some that because they have dual citizenship, so that our colleague Furio Radin, and on the other hand, or the Germans or some other EU citizens. And now the question is, why is the state not doing such a thing? Why, for example, the state does not react and see that, for example, Croatia is charging for a service that should not be charged and thus takes millions of kunas to our citizens until they rebel themselves and then another third does not react and does something that is right, and that is not to charge what should not be charged. And on this side I must admit that delivery is particularly skeptical when I see at this point the government's interest in anything other than the HDZ elections, they don't even care, I would say no legislative initiative, no debate in the Croatian Parliament, because here I am telling you once again that the situation we have here is embarrassing, that we will soon end the debate and wait at 12 hours of voting and then think whether Prime Minister Plenkovic has agreed with minority deputies and whether we will have a majority in three weeks at all and an opportunity to vote on the debated legislative initiatives. Which is why there are no initiatives given by opposition parties, which is why we do not fill the agenda and show the citizens that we are fighting for their interests and that we want to talk about their problems. And then, of course, when you have this overall situation, when you have such circumstances, the question arises, so why would someone believe that, for example, the State Inspectorate will well coordinate the issue of consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia, why would someone believe that it is more important for Andrija Mikulic than to remain the president of Zagreb's HDZ after they go through the elections now, regardless of what is likely to be done by Andrej Plenkovic, but it is more important to him than to control and protect Croatian, Croatian citizens and to protect and show that our consumers have the same status as they do in some other countries. The Ministry of Finance, CNB, I am 100% sure that the fees paid by our citizens and when compared, and this is not just about the risk of the market or the price of capital in the Republic of Croatia, because when you have a loan, then you can say that in Germany it is zero or even sometimes a negative interest rate on some loans, and in Croatia it is 3% because it is such an environment, because we have a bad government, because of what very poor reforms are carried out, but when you have fees and when you see that some fees that are charged in the Republic of Croatia do not exist at all in some other countries because their regulators do not allow that kind of fee payment then the question is asked why the CNB does not make the market in Croatia to be identical to the market in Austria or Italy. Which is why Croatian citizens are in a more unfavourable position on the financial market than Austrians or Italians. Why aren't you doing it? And should I believe that now Andrija Mikulić will succeed in coordinating Governor Vujčić or Minister Marić, or I don't know who all the leaders of these bodies are because some of these, regardless of what they have become ministers before, I don't know how many, almost half a year simply in the media we don't see or have any leads in their actions. So I will support this law, support all possible initiatives that will benefit Croatian citizens, but we must be aware that only the legislative initiatives and proposals of the laws that are related to certain problems will not lead to our fellow citizens experiencing some concrete shifts, we will not be in the same position as other European countries. And unfortunately, we settled down, at least I have such a feeling of purely technical voting, and in Croatia these rules do not apply. So, perhaps once again I will say, we may have legislation and we may have solutions, we may have a system and society most democratically developed when we talk about the EU and live in such a society compared to any other part of our country's planet, but unfortunately in Croatia these rights are not valid and these practices are not respected. So there are differences in the EU too between countries and standards that they respect and how they want to develop their country's future. For example, Poland or Hungary want to develop their societies in a closed, hard introverted way and I do not think that this is the path to which the Republic of Croatia should go. I think that we need to set ourselves up in another way and in some way show that we want to be modern, progressive, such as some other country in the EU, such as Scandinavian countries or Benelux countries who on this side of our country we want to do any legislation, but if the practice does not show that we are implementing it, that it is in our interest that our citizens benefit from it will ultimately be nothing. If we have a company where the deputy director of police drives 200 and is watched through his fingers because he said undercover with his personal car and it passes the lichen and in the end, it looks like a man will return HDZ to his position in the MUP, or to the police, then it's all clear to you. Then you can see what kind of country we live in and what the HDZ standards are like in front of us. Standards that aren't good, standards that need to be changed. The sooner we change that, the more I'd say energy and emotions to change our society. So this, you're looking at this now in the Croatian Parliament believe me, the Croatian Parliament shouldn't be. Not only is there no MPs, it's one thing, but there are no legislative initiatives that the debate doesn't take place until the assembly is sitting, that the quorum extends for three weeks, that's something that's sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187684	You also have a replica of Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187685	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, let's throw one more light at this one, on this bill. Namely, you mentioned Croatian mail is good that we are developing this in the Republic of Croatia digital market, I think the Croatian Post Office also has a yellow click portal, an internet portal. However, you know what still happens in Slavonia, to mention those employees of Croatian Post Office they chase you from one office to another because many offices are closed and they work on 2-3 offices, then they sell you, you can arrange with them a Diners card, supplemental or life insurance, you can order a haircut, a chain saw, a golf cart, you can order anything with them, that's what people do, and maybe this digital way of ordering might still put these people in a slightly less stressful situation. They simply with this way of business and Croatian mail and everything they are forced to be bankers, it is not good because it puts the worker in a stressful situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187686	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras, I saw that you were going to raise your hand, so I give you my word. Here, you can answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187687	No, I raised my hand, I raised my hand, here's my colleague's question. You didn't follow closely enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187688	Oh, then I didn't see it. Time's running out now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187689	Thank you very much. As you said, the post office deals with everything and everything, but I don't see anything too bad about it because I think in a stressful situation are more or less all the workers who exist on the market and liberalisation inevitably lead to the fact that the post office will have to offer some other services, because the specific market is changing, classical, classical postal services are slowly leaving and simple mail needs to be transformed and thus try to focus on new markets, delivery is a sender, buying the store of everything it has. What we shouldn't lose at the post office, that social element, which is that our citizens have access to mail in a circle of their lives, which unfortunately they often don't have because mails are closing more and more every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187690	Thank you, too. And finally, the last individual debate belongs to Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187691	Thank you very much. Here, as I said I speak on behalf of the club there are still some things that could be discussed, of course mainly about consumers because, as I said, we are all consumers and we all share the same problems. However, the inequality between states and within is enormous. So for basic things, we, our consumers have huge differences, here for water supply to pay for water, we have more expensive water, for example, in Dalmatia Zagora than in other parts because of what's down there, and they cost a lot of electricity consumption and our citizens aren't even there. So in us even water, so the right to water should have every man on drinking water, in us even this area is not defined in undeveloped areas, mountain-mounted areas are more expensive water because of this expensive energy, because of the pumping stations than in other regions. But when we talk about consumption and consumers, you have listed everything here, you have listed the competent authorities, and now that we read these competent bodies, when we read everything that you have stated here, means what activities you mainly mention this problem on-line trade and control, but I will repeat the most importantly now that we are chairing the EU because we often point out, the Ministry of Economy is also doing budgets, financial periods for the next 7 years, we are talking about EU equality, so we are all equal, and I am saying here publicly that consumers in the Republic are also doing budgets, financial periods for the next 7 years, we are talking about EU equality, and I am saying that we are all equal, and I am here publicly that consumers in Croatia. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not as equal as the other citizens within the EU. So when we speak from telecommunications services or any service, it means all these competent authorities that you listed from the CNB, the Croatian Financial Supervisory Agency, financial services to the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure, agriculture, we could talk in each segment about the problem of the meaning of our consumers. Because our market, as I said, our market is only EUR 3 billion, and that's a huge increase, every year we import food products and our consumers, here our citizens are much more unquality goods or the same, the same goods pay a lot more than in other EU countries, so this was about Germany, Italy and we have evidence and many examples that we are not counting from this variety of chocolates and others. However, that would say the same, the same cellophane only inside is the second material much more invaluable with us. Our market, the Croatian market, we must protect, we must protect our domestic producers and service providers, so I agree in this part of what my colleague Žagar has asked about, and I disagree with my colleague Maras where he says that mail should be absolutely liberalised because mail is in some parts of the Republic of Croatia the only thing they have. I can list you, a number of places, mails are being shut down and so life is shutting down in numerous, in 2/3 of RH, in most parts, in, in, in most parts of the Republic, in most of the Republic of Croatia, in many settlements are the only things left, aware of today's Internet or online sales, but these mail needs to be preserved if these people stay there on that market and they have such a habit. Unfortunately, there remained an older population as well as in my Dalmatian Zagora, but unfortunately these mails are being shut down and thus essentially shutting down the last institutions of some kind, the places that were recognizable. And we really need to be careful here, I'm not for liberalism as much as Social Democrats Arsen, this pardon Gordan Maras for mail. The post office in some of our places is the only thing left, young people have moved out, their only mail and mail is the only contact with the world and simple liberalisation in these kind of frameworks must the state have its own institutions that will ie. Some of your own, here's the mail case. As regards the Ministry of Agriculture, I noted that in the Republic of Croatia our consumers, i.e. as consumers, we consume food that is imported across borders in various ways, mainly when we look at here, I can only take an example of pork that we are importing over a billion kunas of pork today and it is growing rapidly and of course it is more than uncontrollable, so today we are losing even brands and that, and brands of production, means final production from prosciuttos further, we as a tourist state would have to protect much more within the EU and now that we are chairing again, we should also protect our producers and consumers from imports of harmful food that is more expensive than much more quality in other countries, and here as far as we are concerned, is the most annoying one when you mention economic growth. We're talking about online sales that are in the Republic of Croatia on several percentages, in the West is much bigger, it's a triba control because there's really a space for malversion big, even the people here I said that I followed on the agricultural show, I got that information, where people and by the media were, paid for expensive agricultural machines, tractors, and they never got this one, that tractor, therefore, that triba control. But in the Republic of Croatia, we're trying to protect domestic producers, because here we're only going to, basically, this law, which we prescribe regulation to protect only foreign producers, so it's more expensive in us, in our telecommunications services are much more expensive than in other countries, and teleopers have the biggest profits in the Republic of Croatia, much less than in the countries in Germany, where a teleoperator comes from, and we have nothing better online than, as consumers, than they have other, but, in fact, they have a much better service. I have also given the law and I am sorry what was then voted against that law and the HDZ and the SDP did not support this law that the base stations are set up with a building permit and therefore have a huge profit of teleopers in the Republic of Croatia, and that is what our consumers pay for, a huge profit, so in us there is an unregulated space, so that only compliance with EU directives and regulations, it is a lipo cut here under the lights of Zagreb, but in reality because of these policies we have 2/3 of RH empty. First, we have lost the manufacturer and the service provider, and now we are left without the consumer. You don't know who you bring this to when you empty the country, because that's the way the Republic of Croatia is, we don't have the courage to say it in the EU right now here when we're presiding to protect domestic producers, because if we don't have domestic producers, believe me, and the workplace in my Dalmatian Zagora or anywhere else, in Slavonia, Gorski Kotar, if we don't have producers, if we don't have a job, there won't be even a consumer, there's going to be something around these big cities, and that's it. We must, therefore, fight within the EU, not pay everything on a plate and be their only market of their goods that they now regulate by law when we have destroyed all our manufacturers and service providers and now we need to destroy one small mail in a village, Kiev or I don't know where more Social Democrats say that. That post office is the only contact with the world of these people, the few who have stayed there, and the triba has been lifted. Triba means to punish, the state's attorney deals with cats in those areas, and the ones who robbed the Republic of Croatia first of my arms money, but here we'll appoint a state's attorney for cats, the one who first went to Imotski I propose him as a state attorney. Well, gentlemen, it's not enough just to rewrite the regulations and mock two-thirds of Croatia, is it? We weren't ready on this market. We first destroyed our producers, farmers, farmers, and now there are no consumers, because there are no jobs. And this pamphlet we can vote in orderly is this written at the expense of Croatian citizens, and in the protection of foreign producers... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187692	Very interesting, but time is inexorable. Mr. Sagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187693	Thank you. You encouraged me to say this, so you're right about that. I'm reading now the data that in Dalmatia and Istria don't get to bake as much brandy as it takes for the season, and we've done everything we've done, we've done everything to get the brandy boilers out of the yard in Slavonia, they're gone. Look, they're mostly dedicated to old copper. We build in Slavonia, not only all over Croatia, but in Slavonia, it's some incubators of the entrepreneurial, we do milk research institutes, we do things, and where we can, where we have the product safe, where we have the tradition, where we have the end and the resources, there are primarily Slavonic plums where we can make that brandy furnace, we don't bake it anymore. And then I read in the paper that in Dalmatia and Istria, they can't get as hot as they need. And then I wonder where we're actually going and what our goal is and in the development of the village, and then finally the development of the economy, so if you want tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187694	Answer, here you go, Mr. Butt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187695	Yeah, everything's beautifully written in this office that we're copying, but you're right. The needs for brandy are enormous, and we import, but we have banned the peasant from traditionally agreeing with the negotiations of European officials, that in a traditional domestic way, he bakes brandy, and you will see very little of it as a plum in Slavonia such a vine in Dalmatia. Forbidden, fines released, asparagus brother not to be allowed, nothing shall be allowed. And who are we protecting? And now that we've destroyed all of this, our way of traditional life in these areas in order to reach out to some regulations and some kind of officials, we've destroyed total domestic production from agriculture, the economy, no matter, to shipbuilding because we couldn't survive on that market, targetedly, advocacy, servantly signing who knows what in pre-accession with the EU. So what now? Now we make and rewrite their regulations to protect and work in their interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187696	Thank you. Mr. Maras, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187697	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, you've probably misunderstood, I didn't advocate being liberalized... we don't have in places, I'm just saying that one of the quality of life components of our fellow citizens is a fuse that they have available mail in a particular circle where they live, that it doesn't happen, for example, that there's no mail or, of course, where there's a lot of residents or somewhere else, I'm not into it. I think it's very important that the state develops and gives support to the post office to keep the number of businesses as high as possible to cover the surface as possible. I was talking about liberalisation of services since things are changing to try to expand services in that sense and try to make up for the revenues of those who fell from letters delivery or something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187698	Answer, here you go, Mr. Butt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187699	Comrade Maras, by joining me... you're a Social Democrats that you're so much for liberalisation in that direction, unfortunately the trends are like that. And what I will tell you once again, in the areas of the Republic of Dalmatia in Zagorje, here is Mr. Vidovic down in the Sibenik hinterland, Skradin has places where the post office is the only thing left and it is shutting down, especially if there are older people. I am aware that technology goes forward, that Internet online trade is going forward, but in these areas is the post office what is left and the state there must have a simple way to maintain that mail is the only contact that world has with mail. But unfortunately, fellow Maras are being courted, our policies on joining the EU we have destroyed domestic traditional production and are now laying down regulations to protect the market, but foreign harmful products in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187700	Thank you, too. There's no mail in my place, so I'm with you in solidarity. 11.03 minutes at 12.00 votes and closing the debate of course. It's 11:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-28-0.u187701	Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for implementing consumer protection rules and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004, first reading, P.Z.E.: number 844. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, the abovementioned draft law and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 102 votes for and 1 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2018 It is the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2018 is accepted, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 88 for, 8 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body.
