ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9672	Thank you. Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'm neither the first nor the last in this House to talk about the coronary virus. I've also been on the subject before, but I need to say a few things again since I've recently been over this disease. First of all, it's not a harmless disease, and I'm not saying it because of the symptoms I had, which were not easy, but that it's a dangerous disease, it's also clear from the number of deaths we have every day in Croatia, Europe and around the world. Someone will easily shake hands and comment on how they die anyway just old and sick, but it's just not true. Even if only people who are already sick and old died, no one has the right to shorten their lives. Those who find that it is harmless for example often take people who have no symptoms or have very mild symptoms, but it does not change the fact that there are people who are very hard to get sick. It's a simple fact, and I'm free to say that anyone who claims it isn't so that he's just an ignorant and ignorant. After all, ask our doctors, nurses, and other medical staff how they feel. I thank them for all the efforts they make and who will do more. The Corona unfortunately shared our society, not only ours, on the one hand we have those who deny or claim that it is a harmless disease, and from other people who would shut everything down and sit at home not taking care that not everyone can afford it. The challenge and this particular species is to find a balance, find a measure and a limit on how to place ourselves as a society and as a state towards the pandemic of the crown so that on the one hand, the health threat is as small and the hospitals are as burdened as possible, and on the other hand, so as not to destroy the existence of humans. Now the answer to the question that has been met is not easy to give, especially when we listen to the opinions of different medical experts from which some are very different and that is what further confuses the public and citizens, all these different thesis and theories make accurate and timely information very difficult. Such a state is only an additional... society because everyone in these opinions takes elements that suit him and then creates certain thesis, and one who disagrees with them immediately becomes an enemy and a target for insult. First and simply I'll say, something like this has to stop because life will continue after the pandemic of the coronary virus, and the continuation will be harder with this divided society, and it has nothing to do with the authorities, government or headquarters, but simply with each individual, everyone has to ask himself if it's reasonable that anyone whose opinion doesn't agree with is called an ugly word just because he has a different view of the coronary virus. When looking at my Roma community, then this pandemic has made her life even harder, and we know that most Croatian Roma live in the conditions of an unworthy man anyway. The pandemic has made it impossible for a large number of them to do occasional jobs, which have otherwise been dealt with, and thus further impoverished their modest family budgets. I'm not saying that to ask for something extra for the Roma. No, I'm just saying that to point out that the corona is not only carrying victims in the form of human health and human life but it also has severe economic consequences, but also the consequences of mental health, and the many consequences of this pandemic will only be seen months later, even years after it is over. And it is therefore more important than ever that as a society and as individuals, we show solidarity with each other, to watch out for the health of others and follow the rules, and also to respect the fact that many others suffer and consequences that are not only medically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9728	And now, on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, Martina Vlasic Iljkic will speak for a while, but here she is present for us. Here you go. There's something we can do to hear our colleague. We see her, but we can't hear the sound. Can she be nicely Croatian said... because I have a sign that she's not involved. We can somehow help that because it seems that from a respected Internet advocate, the Internet isn't really what it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9729	... [[Intruding Vlasic Iljkić:... The speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9730	No, I don't. We still can't hear you. We see you, but we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9731	... /Intruder Vlasic Iljkić: So I hear you and hang you. It's all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9732	Is there any way to connect to your phone? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9733	Do you hear me now? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9734	Here, now you're hearing a little bit better. It's not ideal. Here you go. No, I don't. Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9735	... /Intruder Vlasic Iljkić:... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9736	Here, come on now, you guys. I'm going to turn on the microphone now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9737	... /Intruder Vlasic Iljkić: Can you hear me now?...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9738	Yeah, there's a lot of microphones. Well, even if we don't see her, it's important that we hear her if there's no other solution, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9739	Is it okay now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9740	She just put it on? I'm afraid that's not going to work out, because from what I'm told, the problem is with a colleague with the Internet. [[Come on, try it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9741	Can we do it now? Okay. [[Intruder: Yes, here.]] The International Day of Persons with Disabilities is marked on 3 December. This year is particularly difficult for people with disabilities because due to the pandemic of the coronary virus and the life of people with disabilities is further changed and difficult. Those persons who are associated with narrow living space are further burdened by the uncertainty and fear of COVID-19 disease that would disrupt their health in the event of a disease and are forced to limit their contacts and visits. Also persons with disabilities and children with difficulties involved in associations, activities, associations or events organised by the local community are now prevented from attending activities that enabled them to social inclusion. The coronary pandemic has also made life more difficult for marginal groups, has raised the cost of living to pay for additional services for disabled persons, but it has also made it difficult to finance projects for associations. Unfortunately, most services for disabled persons are addressed to project assets instead of being regularly funded in the system. The concern of the mental health of the citizens during the pandemic was lagged by the national headquarters, civil protection and Minister Beroš from the very beginning of the pandemic, which is incomprehensible because it is a doctor and should be aware of the importance of mental health for the general psychophysical health of the individual. From the very beginning of the pandemic, experts have been urging that psychologists, psychiatrists, be involved in the work of headquarters to facilitate the everyday life of our citizens. But also those involved in the direct fight against the crown, and these are health workers. The academic community is abounding with experts in the field of stress, trauma, burning at work but no one has included them in making their contribution to the pandemic in which we are all in. The situation of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia has not reached a level of dignity and quality life nor before the pandemic, especially now that the funds are being channelled towards other needs by disabled people. When we talk about measures from a user's perspective, it's different how they wear old and powerless, who are aware of the dangers of contagion with the virus. They are afraid for their lives and may be easier to walk away from their family, while they are certainly trying to endure the separation of mentally and intellectually damaged people, children with developmental difficulties and other people with disabilities. Investment in marginal groups is not a spending of money, but an investment in the future that a person with disabilities has the same opportunities for education and education, and later employment is equal in view of his opportunities as all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Compensation for social inclusion, such as personal disability and extras for the assistance and care of disabled persons, is met by the basic needs of life, which actually speaks of their difficult socioeconomic situation. At the end of August 2020, the State Statistics Institute published a poverty line, amounting to 2 thousand 710 kuna for singles. The average disability pension in the Republic of Croatia in October 2020 is 2 thousand 177 kuna which is significantly less than the poverty line, and more than 700 thousand pensioners have a pension less than the poverty line and 70% of pensions are below the poverty line. The Ombudsman for people with disabilities spoke with the right and special weight in the Croatian Parliament about the situation of persons with disabilities in her 2019 Work Report, because from the presentation of parliamentary representatives, she did not get the impression that they understood the problem and the real state of persons with disabilities. In our pawnship, we will continue in every law where it is applicable by the Assembly to look at the user's perspective and give our contribution to the rights of disabled people. The example of advocacy was recently the adoption of amendments and additions to the Implementing Law when we proposed that they be exempt from the subject of enforcement and income of persons with disabilities except for the benefits already excluded from the social care system which the ruling did not accept. On all sides of our daily decisions, we have witnessed that people with disabilities are repeatedly discriminated against and their needs are not a priority. We appeal to the ruling to start drawing up the draft law on personal assistance and the Law on Inclusive Supplement as soon as possible to include everyone in the design of quality legal solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9742	Thank you very much and thank you very much, especially fellow Pavić, for being able to make this improvised way possible for his colleague to speak after all. The next Club of Representatives is that green-left block on behalf of which will speak the respected representative William Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9805	Thank you, Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm taking the opportunity of this free speech to congratulate today on December 3rd, International Day of Persons with Disabilities. In any case, it should be noted that persons with disabilities account for 11% of the population in the Republic of Croatia. They have reason to celebrate today although because of the conditions of the pandemic they are not able to go out as we are used to going out on this day and warning us of their achievements that they know are truly inconceivable. At this point, the first thing that comes to mind is the Theatre of the blind and the weak. Whoever of you had the opportunity to watch their amazing performances can see what it is, how people who don't see it when they first come and watch them, can't believe how these blind people can do it so amazingly and are constantly worried, which is the degree of skill. We also have a chance at the theatre to work with quadriplegics, tetraplegics, people with muscular dystrophy and other neuromuscular diseases. But now that because of the pandemic, we've already talked, here's the whole day we're talking about amazing workers and workers working in the welfare system, nursing homes, of course in nursing homes where there's a large number of people with disabilities. However, what you should also point out is that it is very difficult to reach you, you are full here from the position of the ruling, but you are full at the same time understand on the one hand how difficult this position is for people who work in that system, but you cannot be taken from the impression that there is not a lot of some kind of self-thanks and self-satisfaction. At the same time, that's very contradictory, but that's my experience. I'd like to remind you that we from the Green-Left bloc have given two amendments which, of course, are not, and not a large majority or just 3 have been accepted. The increase we've been looking for, and that's for the D.A.'s office for people with disabilities, that's what we've been looking for, of course, that's what it takes, we haven't got. We also asked for a raise for assistants in teaching for children with developmental difficulties. I don't have to say we didn't win. And now I want to remind you of the famous inclusive supplement. Why do I say famous? Because you promised him at the beginning of your last HDZ term. This is what it says, you announced, that the height of this supplement will be determined by the basis of an assessment of the unique abilities of every disabled person, thus restoring the dignity of people with disabilities, in '16. Then last year on this day while they could be outside, while there was no virus, they reminded you of that and Andrej Plenkovic says this "the more urgent adoption of the Law on Inclusive Adjunction, the special legal status of associations, the establishment of the Commission for Early Intervention, and the better physical accessibility of state institutions". It didn't happen, so it was promised in the '20s, here's the '20s. It's not gonna happen, but it's not gonna happen. Now I want to say what, I've talked to this opportunity with colleagues who told me that what they want, they want to get involved in the world of work because if people with disabilities are educated, it means getting involved in education, and if they're in the world of work and this is, then we're as a society of great gain because it's the only sign of real full inclusion in society and it's just a lot of equal enjoyment of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9806	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9970	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, I will say something about support for employment for the first working experience or traineeship and something about the International Day of Disabilities. The traineeship is the basis for obtaining work experience as well as competence for proper and professional work and the basis for the independent work of each worker i.e. the possibility of entering the labour market. The Government of Croatia project, in collaboration with the Croatian Employment Service, is a commendable project, which continuously continues to help young people gain experience in their first job. The measure aimed at the real sector is support for employment, encouraging the employment of persons through the co-financing of the cost of the employer's salary, and in the public sector the promotion of employment with a job contract for people without employment in the public sector. These support includes first-time employment at the acquired educational level and in job-related calls. It is important to point out that traineeships can use over 30 years of age. Compared to the real sector, co-financing is foreseen with 50% of the annual gross 2 salary of workers, 75% for persons with disabilities from target groups, which is important to emphasize on today 50% of the transport costs. The real sector support users are entrepreneurs and non-profit organisations carrying out economic activity and the duration is limited to 12 months. And in relation to the public services from which I come, such as health care, and it is a very important traineeship and the possibility to do so, funding is foreseen in the 100% amount according to the amount of traineeship salary of 85% of the job salary for unemployed people who do not have more than 6 months of call insurance in the field of education, health, social care and culture, and have to be registered in the unemployment records. Duration is limited to 12 months. The basic criteria are that jobs must be systemised, and the number of persons the employers receive must not exceed the number prescribed by the decision of the competent authority or ministry on the number of trainees that can be accepted in a given calendar and financial year. What I particularly want to isolate is that, in 2018, since this measure is taking place, a traineeship has been carried out today for 2,000 200 people, and a total of 114 million 965 and 800 thousand kuna have been paid for it. And what is particularly important to stress is that in 2021, and only in health care are the planned funds of 120 million kuna for 2,000 health workers who will thus be allowed to be placed on the labour market. This measure is important to young people. It's equally a demographic measure, and then of course it's important for our country as a whole. And on today's International Day of Persons with Disabilities, being a person with disabilities means being a mentor to all of us in humanity, nobility and taking care of equality. It's up to all of us who act on certain duties at all levels to listen to people with disabilities who lead us to a better tomorrow. The main goal is to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities, their maximum inclusion in society, the sensitisation of the public to the problems they face daily in the community. And I quote: "We should build together an inclusive, human, solid and socially sensitive society so that more than 511 thousand people with disabilities will be fully equal," said Andrej Plenkovic. I invite you to take a look at the brochure entitled “COVID-19 negative booklet of people with disabilities at the time of the crisis” on the website of the URIH and the Croatian Institute of Public Health. And I welcome Mrs. Ljubica Lukačić, our parliamentary representative and our colleague, who is in self-insulation, so I held this part for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u9971	Thank you. Here, since we've come to the consensus that we can take this one, now we're going to take a stand on behalf of the counsel club, let's get on with it. Thank you. I would just like to announce that, given that a little bit of this has been extended, that the debate on the Supreme Court will be held at 3:00 p.m. on the Supreme Court's report. Now, whoever wants to hear will hear, then people will be surprised when everyone says they haven't heard, claiming they don't know anything, but here I said. And as I announced, the first one, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, will be spoken by the respected representative Daniel Spajic. I'm asking you nicely, who doesn't care, what MPs say in free speech, go outside, go to lunch, I don't know, take a walk, and don't bother and talk here, please. Here you are, Your Honor, MP Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u10029	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed chairman. From the discussions on the adoption of the budget for next year, we saw that the government in the budget of around 157 billion kuna managed to single out as many as 14 thousand kunas to fight corruption. It has singled out so much, although according to EU official reports it is among the most corrupt countries in the Union. This way I want to contribute to the ideas of how to invest these 14 thousand kunas wisely. From the document Explanation of the financial plan for the 2020 HZZ and projection for the '21s. And '22. There's been a series of facts that have led to such a situation. It is seen to still be a public institution, although according to EU directives, HZZO should have long been transformed into a insurance company and made its business transparent. It is also seen that the total revenues and expenditures of the Institute for each of the next 3 years are higher than the revenues and expenditures planned for the previous year, thus reaching nearly 29 billion for 2022. Regardless of the billions, healthcare professionals are leaving the Republic of Croatia. Most of these funds are collected from employers who pay 16.5% on gross wages, and that is unlimited. This unlimited contribution is one of the reasons why we are so uncompetitive and unattractive to investors. In the last five years, the cost of drugs has increased by an incredible 50% to 7.6 billion kuna, which is another Peljeski bridge. However, the project... medications are constantly delayed, and it should introduce systematic management of the cost of medicines. Based on the initial footage, the needs of the hospital's Republic of Croatia's research system, the market around the indicative price of digitisation, were implemented more than two years ago from the eu funds, over 300 million kunas of funds were granted. It was supposed to be one of the biggest digital projects in the public administration, however, because of clan struggles within the health ministry for years there have been no competitions for selecting suppliers. Finally, tendering for specifications and needs were issued this summer, drawing up tender documentation and tendering for a key expert to monitor the project digitisation of the hospital system once launched. And then from somewhere, Sanader's Health Minister, Neven Ljubicic, started Aenona Consulting and as the only bidder, received a competition for a key expert of 1.1 million kuna, which is an unusual price for comparable projects. In the main tender for specification and tender documentation which is 3.3 million kuna, only the consortium of DiMeros and Navada appears. The Navada company, which, according to Internet data, deals with the arrangement of wedding salons in the last year, had a turnover of thousands of kuna. The company DiMeros in last year had less revenue than the amount of tender 2.8 million kuna. In such a significant competition on both items, only one bidder appeared, making it clear that the tender documentation was being written tenantly. I guess that's the new HDZ that got rid of Sanader's men and business habits. On the same day of August 25th of this year, CUSPIS appears as the sole provider for the maintenance of the central health system with the amount of offers of 6 million kuna. Its owner, Vinko Kojundzic, was director of IT in HZZO in Sanader's time and went to Great Britain because of the DORH's interest in his work and is now working under the British address. CUSPIS doubled its income in 2019 compared to 2018 because Mr Kojundzic is very close to the Ministry of Health, and in cooperation with others he gets important jobs that he assigns to the ministry. Finally, instead of taking advantage of the historic opportunity to digitise our health system at EU cost because of the negative selection around the ministry and the trendy writing of tenders that only one pre-selected bidder Croatia is in danger of losing its appropriations. However, the likelihood that this is going to happen is quite large given how companies are chosen to perform such an important task. If the project and manage to launch, it is highly likely that the EU will seek a refund as recently for the water pipeline in Istria because of the fact that only one bidder appears in the tender. Therefore, I ask the competent institutions to make these reserved 14,000 kunas wisely invested because this may lead to digitalisation of health care and the introduction of order in the cost of the most irregular public system in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u10086	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of whom the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u10087	I will also take the opportunity to congratulate the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. In that sense, today I want to warn you of two things. First, exercise is of particular importance to people with disabilities. At the moment of this pandemic, when physical activity is denied to most of our citizens, and especially to the unwarranted children, which is not the case in other countries, and given the situation in Croatia and the problem of obesity, something that we need to reconsider, that never, at any time, therapy that is necessary and necessary for people with disabilities should not be denied. The other thing I want to warn you about is one historical fact. We grew up for centuries as a society of inclusiveness, so today we dare, even though the question of how true it is, is to call it a democratic society. Democratic society is the society that seeks to be open to people with disabilities and that those as equal participants of life participate in all its dimensions. But also today, when we have achieved that at least an idea peak, we are slowly moving towards promoting physical perfection, from the fact that genetic perfection is the prerequisite of your birth, so we have countries like Iceland that boast that no person with down syndrome will ever be born again, to the emphasis of physical perfection as acceptable, tempting, and crucial to any success in life. At that point, we need to ask ourselves what direction and even the latest research is going to take us and how our relationship with people with disabilities will develop in order not to reach the sun after a century that we have fought exclusively for people with disabilities to be accepted in society. What I want to talk about today is poverty. Poverty is a growing problem, and it is potent with this crisis and its true consequences will only be felt. Peter Singer, an ethician of the world's voice, asked the question of helping the poor as an ethical duty, as something we must and cannot do. Ignoring other people's poverty towards Singer is ethically equivalent to going to Ethiopia and shooting several peasants because between killing and letting them die there is no intrinsic difference. This statement may sound excessive to the first one, but the thought of poverty often goes beyond the fact that it kills. In that sense, as is known, poverty is a disaster greater than the most terrible crimes that have occurred in this century. In II. World War II killed between 50 million and 70 million people, including poverty cost the lives of 450 million people. A third of the world’s population dies excessively from malnutrition and disease that has been eradicated in the rich West, that is, by the consequences of poverty. Moreover, except that the disease still does not choose, and it chooses the poor who were to the greatest extent affected by the earlier epidemics of Ebola and Zic virus, and now it will also be this epidemic and its consequences. The poor also have no surprising love for elemental disasters because of the poor standard of living, they are the first to be struck by tsunamis, earthquakes and fires. I point out this today especially because while the number of people whose primary health care is inaccessible is inaccessible in billions, it is normal for us that the drug whose material production is not even worth a dollar by a hundred thousand times the value. I point out that now because we are on the verge of deciding what the price of new vaccines will be. It should be kept in mind all the time whether or not we will be led here by the idea of profit or we will be careful that the price is acceptable in order for the vaccine to reach the poorest. How this epidemic potentiates inequality can remind us of a recent example that the United States had bought out the world's entire supply then understood as a key drug for COVID-19 remdessiving for the next three months, then there was nothing left either to Britain, Europe or the rest of the world. The fight against the epidemic has also become a race for healing to be afforded by those who have the means. We here need to be careful that the same situation does not happen with medicines that are currently coming in as well as vaccines. Finally, in order to understand how serious the problem of poverty is and as far as we are concerned, I will remind you of a saying by the great philosopher Nikolayev Berdjaev "If I am hungry it is a material problem. If someone else is hungry it is a spiritual problem." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u10088	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u10112	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. What I am about to say could be summed up in that song, “Where are you going, my world, which way you are going? ” Remember that song? So, what am I saying? Well, yesterday we spent all day here arguing, I unfortunately had other obligations, so I couldn't be about protecting the public from infectious diseases. And I would point you to a phenomenon. In fact, even before the law passed the government's procedure, the media already said "that's it and it will surely pass through parliament". So, in which world we live when everything is predictable from law-writing to the passing of the largest institution, the institutions of the legislative authority and the institutions of the people's elected people's representatives, so the media is helping us, but also talking about the weakness of this high house that means nothing, that here, that we are a passing station for the laws they write elsewhere. You know, it's been a long time since I've been here that some law has fallen because of a disagreement in the coalition, now it's not possible. And the media didn't get the hang of it, it was because of years of practice. Is that good? Well, of course it's not good. Parliament should be a reflection of different views and finding the best solutions. Parliament should respect the proposals of MPs who are not in the ruling majority as well as these others, to discuss these proposals. I may be the last romantic, but this is what we are today, and as they objectively judge us, they judge the media that it's really just a pass through parliament is wrong, it's not good. I have the privilege of talking to a Macedonian President, Sopranja, who was our dear guest here, otherwise our student from Zagreb, is unfortunately deceased. He told me that he enjoyed agreeing with the opposition quality solutions for his people, and they lived in the conditions of their internal problems in the country, ethnic problems, to the problem of non-recognition from no one, to the problem of denying their name and doing so. We who enjoy our freedom and independence with our full lungs don't know how to negotiate, we don't know how to make the best solutions, so why do we import, introduce an office system, so we have Mr. Merkel here who's going to solve everything, so Parliament is really going to be the way it is. My people, we have come into a position by not developing parliamentaryism in Croatia, by neglecting intra-party activities, by neglecting the criteria for progress within the parties, by seeking to be attractive in front of what is essential, in front of what is content, we have come to a blind, blind street. We have come to a blind street of parliamentaryism and with this kind of behavior and those who are in the majority and us in the minority that we are constantly providing, we offer a hand of cooperation, but that hand is not received. We're not going to advance, and the evaluation of this assembly's work is never going to come up with a three-way that should be acceptable to this tall, tall home. About that, I wanted to say a little bit, here in front of everyone clearly with a long experience that we've strayed from the right path. If we do not start working together, if we do not accept the hand of cooperation that it will be impossible to return to the right path of true parliamentaryism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u10113	Thank you. The next club will be the centre and GLAS on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u10162	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Recently, someone from the government or the HDZ assembly said that the opposition inspires his speeches and suggestions from the media because it is unlikely that our media are not following all possible events in Croatia, especially those affecting the lives of a larger number of people, or I guess if some topic was the subject of a media article or a contribution, then it must no longer be discussed. I don't remember, I'm saying, who was the author of that great wetland, but maybe it's better if I don't remember it. So I'll tell you what I read on one of our portals this morning. "Doctors, nurses and other medical staff in Croatia are on the verge of both physical and mental strength. The traumas and stress they experience at work exceed all normal frames, especially those directly in charge of covid patients. The torments that those with the most difficult form pass along with great mortality leave a mark in the long term." It continues to say in the text, I hope I can talk about it, even though here it came out in the media “to prepare programs of psychological assistance to doctors, nurses and medical staff.” Be careful, December 3rd, it has been almost 10 months since the first case of infection in Croatia, and now it is preparing prevention, psychological and other assistance for people who are on the front line of defense and again primarily because of the goodwill and enthusiasm of certain people, individual institutions and professional organisations. 16 MPs and MPs have given an interpretation of health care and it is now more than 15 days in the procedure, which means that less than 15 days from now we will get the government's response and I'm very interested in what it says. It is likely that the government is in excellent control of the crisis, that we won the crown before the election and that the constitutional court has confirmed that everything is okay. I bet it'll be something like that, especially with the constitutional court. The constitutional court rejected 5 objections three months ago because it estimated that they were not sufficiently reasoned now became as some type of Bianca's permission to serve the government to justify exactly what it was doing or what it was about to do. Unfortunately, in the last 2-3 weeks since the interpretation was sent, we have not received any information suggesting that the situation has improved. But it certainly didn't improve because the government suddenly took hold of the reins and began to successfully coordinate the struggle with the epidemic. If it's a shift and it's because people on the ground are self-organizing or worse, we're all used to the situation. Let me remind you briefly what we thought, and we still consider the government's main failures towards the health system. General unpreparedness as the first and greatest objection. Even though it's been known for months what's been happening to us is a verse, unprepared and unorthodox. Management's bad. The second question is, why is it that of all the hospitals in the city are available just as KB Dubrava as the most modern or one of the most modern hospitals had to be completely turned into a covid hospital? To date, we have not received any reasonable explanation, nor an assessment of the effects on the people who depend on the hospital, nor an assessment of the impact of such a decision on the hospital itself and its future. And the third objection is the availability of health care to all those who have no crown. Regardless of the crown, life goes on, people continue to get sick and we should have been prepared for it. But what I'm using here is the next new challenge, which is to distribute the Corona vaccine and ensure that a sufficient number of people are vaccinated, and again we don't see any concrete and clear plans or evaluations of how it's going to work. It needs to be done now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u10163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21275	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're continuing our work, I'd like only to ask the government's representative to join us. We will discuss the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Social Welfare, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 72 Before that, only information, so tomorrow morning at 9.30 will be a statement of amendments, and a vote at 12:00. So in the morning at 9.30 a.m., the amendment statement, and at 12:00, it's a vote. Today as I said the first item I announced, we do not have a report on the operation of the DORH because of the familiar situation and we are doing a report by the President of the Supreme Court on the state of the judicial authority for 2019. The government's representative is close, just a second please. Hello, here you are. The meeting of the Parliament starts at 9.30 p.m., so I'm asking you to come in on time next time, because the MPs are waiting for you. - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Social Care Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 72. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative procedure as a matter of urgency. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on the Working of the Pension System and the Social Partnership. I would ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us State Secretary Maria Pleikosa at the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy has been respected. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21276	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In addition to the Social Care Act, it is proposed to regulate the question of the mobilization of workers with social services providers, which implies a temporary reference from one social service provider to another, the isolation of workers in the premises of social service providers and the redistribution of working time, the requisition of equipment and means of transport, the temporary use of business and other premises. Namely, the occurrence of covid-19 infectious disease and the decision to declare the covid-19 disease epidemic of 11 March 2020 made it difficult to carry out and provide social services due to the illness or isolation of workers and users and their self-insulation leading to a lack of sufficient number of workers to perform regular jobs. The decision of the Civil Protection Staff of 25 March 2020 introduced the necessary measures for the special organisation of social care institutions and other social services providers, enabling workers to work with another social service provider and making it possible to make the equipment and vehicles available to social service providers. It should be pointed out that in the first wave of the outbreak from February until June 2020 for the welfare system, and in cooperation with the HZJZ, a series of recommendations were adopted in accordance with the epidemiological situation at the given time, and related to the ban on visiting, the restriction of user exits and the organisation of workers' work starting on 27 February when the ban on visiting users was adopted. The guidelines also amended the recommendations on the organisation of workers' work, i.e. from work isolation proposals from 14 days to working isolation from 4 days, until the release of measures and the full return to the old form of work and life at home on 29 May 2020, which lasted until 19 June when the new wave of the covid epidemic began. The total number of infected users in this period was 199, and that none of the users in the institutions of which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia, 68 of which was not infected. We also need to stress that employees in the social care system have adapted their work to protect the health of users since the outbreak of the coronary virus epidemic, which has been a major challenge for the whole system. With their maximum pawnage and commitment to work with high levels of professional and personal responsibilities, all home employees and foster families have adapted and adapted today to ensure their timely service and adequate care even though they themselves are at risk of being infected, so thank them all for everything they do. Thanks to all of them, very good results have been achieved as well as indicators that no one in 68 institutions that is the founder of the Republic of Croatia has been infected with the crown, although there are 4,684 users in them. Also in 2,697 foster families, none of the users were infected, although 6,438 of them live in them. The modified organisation of work during this period or organisation of work in work isolation in different forms has provided a total of 42 homes with the founder of the Republic of Croatia, 31 homes for older people who are the founder of counties and 35 homes of other founders and more than 100 family homes. In total, therefore, the work isolation of 14 days or less has been spent by 208 homes providing accommodation services, which certainly has contributed to the preservation of users and workers from covid-10 virus infection and disease. Since the change in the organisation of work has caused some workers to feel disdain in collaboration with the union, some cases have also been brought against employers. In order to avoid this kind of situation in the second wave, and to ensure a legal basis for the organisation of work in social care institutions in exceptional circumstances, the completion of the Social Care Act was approached with the aim of further protecting the healthiest groups of the Ministry of Labour of the Pension System, Family and Social Policy established by the Committee for the Prevention and control of the epidemic of covids against older persons and persons from other vulnerable groups as an inter-resent, advisory and expert body. The work of this committee has resulted in new instructions on preventing and suppressing the epidemic. By re-establishing mobile teams that exercise control over preventive measures through inspection, by giving recommendations to service providers on the need to provide sufficient amounts of flu vaccines, by analysing the health care professionals' situation in the service provider in order to ensure the possibility of taking swabs from healthcare professionals, for which an educational spot for health care professionals has been prepared and delivered to accommodation providers. By supplementing the Social Care Act for the purpose of improving the organisation of work in crisis situations, preparing technical conditions and setting up a college centre, preparing isolation or quarantine in cooperation with county headquarters, preparing an information campaign for the protection of older people and persons with disabilities. The "Responsible We Stay Close" campaign's message warns that our older family members and fellow citizens belong to the most endangered pandemic group, and therefore we need to show ourselves responsible for their behavior and special concern. It is made up of regular hygiene measures, contact restrictions and respect for security measures in retirement homes. The campaign consists of an animated video for TV, radio video, printed materials, carried out in collaboration with HRT. Printed books with advice on health protection have been distributed. Establishment and cooperation with the Centre for Mental Health of the Educational Institute for Public Health Dr. Andrija Printar for the purpose of preparing for the provision of professional psychosocial support and printed posters with advice to preserve the mental health of users who are also distributed to service providers for the purpose of availability to all users. Posters were also made for the purpose of preserving the mental health of employees available on the Ministry's website and forwarding links to all service providers. The current situation with the accommodation service provider certainly points to the need to re-change and streamline protection measures because 1,636 users are currently infected in the welfare system, in the second wave of 2,878 users and 557 workers, in the second wave of 1,209 workers, and unfortunately the total deceased of 278 users, in the first wave of 46. In order to implement specific measures to prevent the spread of virus transmission, it is necessary to regulate the area of working time for employees of social services especially those who care about particularly sensitive groups of citizens who may be at risk of being infected. The redistribution of working hours will allow for up to 12 hours of work over a 24-hour period and the above-mentioned work cannot continue for an uninterrupted period of more than 10 days, while the worker may be ordered to use his corresponding vacation in working isolation. The sending of workers is possible for all social care institutions whose founder of the Republic of Croatia, the unit of local or regional (regional) self-government or service providers have a contract with which the Ministry has concluded on the provision of social care services to a proportion of users for whom the social care contract is provided and concluded. Working isolation and redistribution of working hours is also extremely possible for all other social service providers, private social service providers as instructed by the minister. The following is proposed to adopt the Law supplementing the Social Care Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21277	You can stay here because we have a few replicas, so you'll be responding from the scene. So we have nine replicas that are here from the hall and one for now video through. The first one's the honorary colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21278	Thank you. Respected secretary of state. You almost boasted that the virus was actually over and was not in the country run by the state, you actually sent a message that where the state manages there is a good situation. Is that what you're trying to say? in a home in Split responsible county authorities operating that home, Minister Beros said that the virus is responsible, you think, you are boasting about the state's results, the state's governance, who do you think is responsible for entering many county-run homes?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21279	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21280	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I couldn't say that the answer is that someone is responsible, I just know that, in fact, we're all responsible for implementing security measures with responsibility to the users is just the responsibility of the employees, so we can all be together and we managed to resist this, this situation during the first wave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21281	Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21282	Dear Secretary of State, these additions to the law are an opportunity to talk in general about the problem of homes for older and powerless, something more in the debate, but one very specific question. The House of Elders and Powerless in Varazdin, in Varazdin County, has been permanently cut off for exactly 3 million kunas a year. In the last nine years. we have lost 25 million kuna and we get exactly 40% less funds per user compared to other homes in Croatia. In this budget it is not corrected again, we have an announcement from the Minister that it will be done, and my question is that today you answer me specifically when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21283	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21284	Thank you. Here I can say that the methodology, analysis and methodology of the calculation of prices in the social care system is being implemented. This is a very complex process, and our goal is to, as soon as possible, centralised homes and homes that are the founder of the Republic of Croatia and, and all homes that provide social care services to get money in an equal way. And here, I know that the house in Varazdin will, yes, that this problem will be resolved very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21285	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21286	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, it is really not easy to work in welfare institutions even when conditions are normal and regular. Even at this time of the covid crisis, all our employees acted responsibly and accepted even voluntary and working isolation. Social care institutions have the most stringent measures to protect our users and we can only imagine who we are using the welfare system always negatively for our political statements that it is when our users don't see their family members for months when their only relationship with the world is the employees of an institution of social care, when they no longer know how to comfort them by having their own work and personal private problems. Do some times when we criticize them think that they too need support, praise, and psychosocial help?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21287	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21288	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, if it's something we think about every day, we find ways to evaluate these people who work in silence, who don't complain, which only happens when something bad happens, I think everyone should enter a social care facility to see how, how these sacrificed people work regardless of sometimes and very hard, not sometimes, but really very difficult working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21289	Here you go, pals of Jack's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21290	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, Croatian Retired Union and the Third Age National Alliance issued a joint statement stressing the systematic neglect of home users for elderly and powerless, all happening 2.12. They warned of the widespread neglect of older and powerless in family and private homes and requested in fact one way, in some way systematic supervision to ensure adequate care for normal living and communication conditions that home users should certainly have with their families. What have you done about this statement?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21291	Thanks for asking. Here I can say that we have taken that, in addition to increasing the number of inspectors that have been set up by the new regulation, and it is concerned that 30 inspectors have issued, given the order or decided that, that the number of inspectors is increasing by another 12 so that at the very beginning of the mandate we have increased the number of inspections, that inspectors are on the ground every day, except for these regular checks, are also coming out by the applications and can say that they have indeed, that they have encountered a lot of irregularities, so it is precisely that control is something that has been organised and all with the aim of improving the conditions and actually improving the lives of the users who They're in the facilities. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21292	Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21293	Thank you very much. Respected State Secretary, the basic purpose of this law, or these additions to the Social Care Act, is to regulate the activities of social care institutions in this particular context of the epidemic that we have, and therefore also to mobilise workers, labour isolation, requisition of equipment and means of transport, etc. I am pleased to point out that the necessary measures of the special organisation of work in the institutions of social care have already been adopted or introduced on 25.3. and since then, according to the epidemiological picture in the first wave, have adapted each emerging situation, and this is one of the proofs of the flexibility of all employees in the institutions of social care, but also, proof of their adaptation and proof of their sacrifice have therefore been achieved in the first wave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21294	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21295	Here, thank you for your comment, and I would like to point out that on 27 February of this year, we organised a committee in the ministry itself, or so on. From that day on, the Covid team that monitors all service providers from that day to day, is about experts who are constantly on communication with all service providers, with units of local self-government, helping to get protective equipment mainly, we are constantly at a disposition and I think we are really doing a good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21296	Now it's time for my colleague, Antoliæ Vupra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21297	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, I would ask you what you are thinking about those 15 thousand home users for the elderly and the powerless, so whether they are institutions, whether they are family homes or other forms of care for the elderly and the powerless, the disabled and all others who need institutional care. So from 25.3. they are simply under the protection of themselves, so they are forbidden to visit. You also know that minimum technical conditions are prescribed that the facility must have 6 squares for night... Is it possible to think about it in this time of 25.3., in that rule to apply the provision to ensure a room that would protect health when visiting the users of homes for older and powerless and thus prevent them? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] mental state. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21298	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21299	Thank you very much. Of course everything we do is to protect the health and interests of our users. Our first priority is their health. Of course, we are aware that it is not easy for them, that it is difficult for them not to see their loved ones, but we have changed these decisions many times over the past period how, as the number of patients has decreased, there we have been also easing measures, but always and exclusively with the only view and our first goal was to ensure the protection and safety of users. We would be most fortunate to have much more space, however, there are different institutions, from those small ones in which it is simply impossible to secure to those in which it is possible and wherever possible, we have done so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21300	A fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21301	Thank you very much. The barbecue in Split was in the first wave home for the elderly and powerless where after 15 days they knew they had the temperature of the protégé, nothing was done, the director was appointed to the institution exclusively because he lost his election in Omis and after losing his election in Omis, since he was a HDZ candidate, they had no reason to do so, and they said, "Be the director of the home for the elderly and the powerless in Zanti." And what happened happened, the whole means a series of downfall institutions, there was chaos in the entire health system of the Split-Dalmatia County because of the way they were employed in homes for older and powerless, in this case the Split-Dalmatia County and no one answered, especially for the deceased people because nothing was done in the home for the elderly and powerless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21302	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21303	Well, I wouldn't comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21304	... Comrade Bartulica, please, you are now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21305	Thank you, Your Honor, for the Secretary of State. In the welfare system there are 50 public homes for older people and waiting lists as you know they are still very long and in the meantime there have been a large number of private homes. In the Long War in September, two people died from the fire, six people died in Andrasevec earlier this year, same as the fires. Besides increasing the number of inspectors you listed, what did the ministry specifically do to prevent such unpleasant events in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21306	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21307	Thank you very much. Here, as we know, is the draft of a new Social Care Act, and precisely in the new law, we are predicting a change, an organisational change in the facility for the elderly and the powerless so that, all of these, all of this, is what we found on the ground and we are aware that it is not good, we are going through this law to fix it in a way that we will support the opening measures, to open new institutions, that we will reduce the number of users that can be inside and service these conditions for accommodation and care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21308	My colleague Posavec, the guilty one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21309	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned, and in this we will agree that the most endangered population age group, given the consequences of the Covid-19 infection, is considered by the elderly, especially the elderly and the powerless persons located in institutions and homes. The colleagues said earlier, and you mentioned it, there are about 16,000 such persons in the Republic of Croatia. We kind of consider them institutional prisoners because they don't have the ability to move, which they're closed, which they can't receive visits. In next year's budget, the government has reduced funds on certain items by 3 billion kuna. I want to know how you plan and if you're planning any action plan and action measures to get these people out of the situation where what you're doing is protecting their physical but not mental health, people are depressed, they're separated from their loved ones and they need others. form of assistance. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21310	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21311	Thank you very much. Here, first of all, I would mention, of course, that if we wanted to protect their health, and that is our first goal and our first interest. I don't know if you know anyone who works in welfare institutions? Do you know people who, on a daily basis, provide not only care to users but also to psycho social support and help and believe that, believe that an entire army of people works and does not, most often do not come home, if they come home where they have their families they bring and these problems with themselves and all that worry? However, as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, the government programme also includes building new homes because large waiting lists of new homes and I can only inform you that we are just working to get EU funding from which we are entitled.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21312	Thank you. Comrade Blažević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21313	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned working with the Mental Health Centro. Surely this situation has an effect on the mental health of users, but also employees in centres or homes and I am interested in whether psychosocial support is provided organised or on individual requirements, and whether this psychosocial support applies only to the user or possibly to the employees of the home?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21314	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21315	Thank you very much. Here, I mentioned in my presentation that in addition to psychosocial support for users to provide psychosocial support to employees, we are aware that it is not enough, we are aware that we are fighting for every life and that there is simply not as much time as it should be, but we are really working on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21316	Now let's go say hello to our colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash, who's coming back with the video, do you hear us?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21317	Nice greeting, thank you very much, nice greeting, good morning, everyone. Here, I have a question for a respected secretary of state, and before that, you asked your colleague if she knew anyone or how people work in centres and social care and homes. My sister is a social worker and works in a home for the powerless, or for the elderly and the retired, and I know firsthand that it's not easy, it's hard. But I would refer to the remarks you received in the public debate. In the public debate, you got 3 comments from people who warn that there are no employees who can work, that there are no people, that this is one thing you can do, but they're simply not going to have people, so I'm wondering if it's really possible in these conditions for someone, some kind of activity, to see what we have on, who we have unemployed to, to train and to have people who will help those who are really now in specific conditions. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21318	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21319	Thank you very much for this question. So it happens every day in the first wave, and now in the second, especially to keep a whole series of employees either in self - isolation or because of their own illness at home. The same way that we, as our covid team has been in contact with all service providers at the same time, sign consent to replace them, is indeed in some areas and this problem, but here I can mention that we are users of exactly the users, users of guaranteed minimum fees and users who have been registered at the Employment Service to hire them and that they are involved, I must say that this is not very successful every time, but nevertheless a large number, we have also realised employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21320	Thank you, Secretary of State, can you sit in your seat now, and we'll see if any of the committee rapporteurs will take a word for it? If not then, we move on to the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists and Honorable Fellow Miro Bulj, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21321	Thank you very much. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Social care and institutions for our mostly oldest and socially endangered, and most of all the oldest are homes for the elderly in the covid crisis, the tribal is protected as other countries have worked as the greatest threat is that these people are the most endangered. However, everything in Croatia, mainly in the first wave, the secretary of state did not want to answer, happened vice versa. The home for older and powerless in Split is essentially an indicator of how, without any concern for the elderly, only key people who lose elections in local elections, for example. Mayor Omis lost the election, let's put him with him, let's put him in a home for the elderly and the powerless, important that he is there and of course it happened there that after 15 days what was older and powerless had a number of temperatures that only then reacted and that there was a hotspot that escalated until there was a great number of deaths of older and powerless. The County of Split-Dalmatia is such a creation that all those losers who lose their local elections, their members, their staffs, that they have to be sensed somewhere, what are they going to do with people, so it happened to the home for the old and the powerless, and probably in all other counties, that's how the system works, and what happened? It happened that Willy Beros, the minister, the hero, or else the man is super not flying, no... He said don't let us take him in for 85 minutes there we shouldn't, and we just take him in that he said about 85th, ears right at 85th minute because of the guilty who? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You don't want to answer. Why won't you answer? Well, those older people are nobody's, they're somebody's parents, they're even family members. There was chaos in the entire health system in Juraj Bonachi, nurses, technical staff then went to help out for older and powerless so that these people are sick, these people who are basically weaker mental health who can't function without enough care, one person worked on 20 such people, adult people. That's true. And silence, why is it silence? Who's to blame for that behavior? You're typing on my people's cell phone. My people, here's the key to her cell phone. She's laughing. Who is responsible for such behavior within the healthcare system in this case? Any responsibility, any conscience? Who's to blame for these people's deaths? Did anyone answer? You don't want to answer. What do they tell these people's families who died because of the coronary virus, and for 15 days no one reported people having a fever, protégé? The marketing tricks under these lights here are not reality, nor the exercise in front of the mirror of your sentences that will make an impression in public or the PR will be processed to care for Croatia as a state that writes laws and changes laws every day. In the interest of who? Socially endangered persons are the most important persons in society, the elemental thing, the civilization's reach to care for these people, and not that the most qualified people care about running this system, not those who lose the election of local mayors, mayors or I don't know who. You've created chaos in the system, in your system there's a respected state secretary. I'm sorry to have to talk like this. There are great people working inside the system, but the frontal mousse is a mess. Who will justify this appointment of a man who has nothing to do with health care, who even doctors say they couldn't get inside the medical staff, inside the home for the elderly and powerless that they couldn't get in touch with the epidemiologists, anyone who should have come in when the case of nursing homes happened? homes for the elderly in Split. Who's responsible? No one. And our ears are at 85, where there's no sense in being, where we should have protected the most and defended those homes for the elderly and the powerless. And today, when people because of the crown of the crisis, when they cleared up the whole and the politics and out of the bad policy when they came out in the Republic of Croatia, we today have people who are mature and lose their jobs and literally become homeless. We have these examples both in Split and in Zagreb and elsewhere, literally overnight becoming homeless because they lost their job not by their own fault but by now the crown of the crisis. There's that in both the public and the media. And we must increase capacity for the elderly and the powerless. In my Sinj still and in the smaller environments we take care of our elders, we have the possibility, but even in these parts it is no longer impossible to eat because children and young people go into the world with their stomachs after bread, and the elderly remain alone, so we need to expand our capacities. Triba thinks that the homes for the elderly and the powerless aren't like that. in Split in the middle of town and now you're basically older and powerless prisoners because they can't get out in front, right now there's the main road, there's people living. ... doing it somewhere in Zagora, for example, Sinj, Drniš, Imotskom where they would have space to walk because more valuable building in Split could make four homes for older and powerless in Dalmatia Zagora where we have good roads, access roads where it can be done and people would be. protectes and users much better to have open spaces than is the case. In large cities home for older and powerless in Split, simply people have no place and now they are actually prisoners of the current situation. They can't walk out because it's busy out there, people are around, houses, just a densely populated area, so we're trying to do it, even to prescribe by law that it has to be because of situations like this where it would be in one... it would be possible to walk or something like that... this free space it doesn't have, especially here I said this home for older and powerless in Split while in the West there's room and it would be much more adequate for those people and much better living conditions to have the opportunity to walk a little bit in this way they're alone in the room. I would once again say that the social care of the elderly and the powerless and others who are dependent on various reasons for aid, we must do not only to write the law, and in the covid crisis homes for older and powerless ones are the first defences against covids, not what happened in Split to keep quiet for 15 days that people have an increased temperature, i.e. The protégés and there was the worst, there were a large number of people who died and no one answered. But we have to take lessons, maybe I was even mild, I'm tribune, I meant covered, even mild. The most professional and most competent people have to run those facilities, and people who are, so from the nurse, sisters, people, that's the hardest job and thank them. And I've been making amendments for them, and you haven't accepted them gentlemen to the budget of both state and county, they've voted against an allowance for health care professionals or health care professionals in the fight against covids fighting. You didn't accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21322	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first one is, no, no, excuse me, damage to the Rules of Procedure, so my colleague Bulj, you're free, we're in breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21323	Mr. President, I believe that an officer has been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because an esteemed colleague is false, demeans the entire system, speaks of chaos in the system, insults, tells the truth. Discussing the case of one home, and forgetting that in Croatian homes we had a breakthrough of the coronary virus not only in the first but unfortunately in the second wave, it is false, it has not been silenced about the situation, measures have been taken And I can't allow it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] In this way, employees in the social care system are offended. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Bedeković]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21324	In this way, the exposure of colleagues to Bulja is probably unacceptable to many, but as far as HS and Rules of Procedure are concerned, it is in my opinion that he is not injured, so these are his views. It's also hard for me to accept my colleague Bulj because more than half of the dead, I'm looking at the world's health organization's research just coming from nursing homes, not only in Croatia, but from all over the world, so it's a phenomenon, but you have the right to speak as you have spoken. Here you go, fellow Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21325	Thank you, Your Honor. He's also a by, injured Rules of Procedure 238. I agree that each of us has the right to think and expose, but I still have to warn that in the first part of his presentation, my colleague Bulj was so verbally aggressive in resisting and calling one man for the death of 15 people, I think these are too heavy, unfounded, unargumented, basics. I'll warn you that's exactly how it led to [[Intruder: Thank you]] The deaths of the people in the school centre. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Murganić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21326	Thank you very much, yes. Here you go, colleague Bulj, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21327	Thank you very much. She's a colleague of mine. My colleagues have been injured by the Rules of Procedure. In 238, are you not going to write to me, they don't have to write first what I'm going to say here, I haven't insulted anyone, I've brought up the facts, but no one has answered, nor have any colleagues who have been high-ranking. And as far as the system is concerned, I've given an amendment to the covid supplement for health and health care professionals working in the system, and you didn't support it. You were needed here in the county [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And it's the hardest on medical staff, not on you. [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful colleague Bulj]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21328	And, Mr. Skoro, here you are, looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21329	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Namely, this disputed section in accordance with Article. The 236 is constantly repeated in HS, obviously a little work needs to be done on the Rules of Procedure. Both colleagues, including colleagues of Bulja, have actually injured the Rules of Procedure, Art. In 238, it does not speak at all about anyone saying or not telling the truth, so it speaks of insulting, it speaks of some other items and ways in which not to be communicated, but the truth and lie is unfortunately allowed by these Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21330	That's why I said the Rules of Procedure didn't hurt me. There were very difficult words. I think it's very easy to accuse someone of being guilty, which is wrong because we don't have any more evidence of it than I said myself that more than half the people unfortunately died in nursing homes and it's obviously something that's a problem not only of Croatian but also of other countries, so I'm asking you to choose words, but I'm going to let everyone take their stand except when he starts directly insulting other colleagues and colleagues or some other people. Let's move on now, now it's the Green-Left Block's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Damir Bakic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21331	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished colleagues, and distinguished colleagues, respected secretary of state. First of all, I would like to show support for my personal and equal support on behalf of all colleagues and colleagues from the Green-Left Block Club, support for all workers and workers in the social care system, as well as for all workers and workers in the healthcare system, because we all see how difficult it is and how difficult it is for all the physical, psychological and emotional efforts they are these days. In that sense, they should be given a confession and, and, to support them. It is therefore important that we, both the government and the council, assume, of course, everyone within our jurisdiction, full responsibility and make every effort possible because the moment requires us to do so. In this context, there is a need to remove any suspicion of the presence of conflicts of interest in the scientific council in the government. All those in conflict of interest should step forward immediately with the council and it is necessary for Minister Beros and Prime Minister Plenkovic to recognise and take that position vigorously. And as for the proposed Law on Supplements to the Social Care Act, we feel that it is in line with the needs of the moment and the seriousness of the situation and we support it. At this point, I would just like to comment further on section 4. of the proposed new article. 123.b., item 4. Let me quote explicitly: “The decision to redistribute the working hours referred to in Article 3 of this article may order work for up to 12 hours over a 24-hour period that cannot last for a continuous period of more than 10 days, where a professional and other worker may be ordered to use his corresponding vacation in working isolation.” The proposed Article 7 of the same article states that redistributed working hours are not considered to be part-time. It is now necessary to take a look at the reasons given by the applicant in addition to this proposed article, and it is said in this explanation that the authority of the responsible persons is to introduce, according to the Minister responsible for the work, the redistribution of the working time as described above, for a maximum period of 10 days uninterrupted and for the next 10 days, that the worker does not work (there are no). We would certainly like to avoid, we would in no way want to see that this provision on the right to free days is merely implicit, to be just implicated, to be possibly one day subject to any interpretation. In that sense, we are in favour of entering the new proposed article of the law in a word, and in that sense we will submit an amendment to propose the addition of this new proposed Article of Article 8 which would read roughly “to the worker whose working time has been redistributed and Article 4 of this article for an uninterrupted period of N days, the following N days are determined as the day off”. We think it's so much better, more precise, clearer and certainly important in the interest of all workers that it's better to write in law. In that sense, your colleagues and colleagues, both from the ruling coalition and from the opposition, I call on you to support all together this amendment that we will propose. That would be all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21332	Thank you. Now it's the Croatian Sovereigns' Club and Honored counterpart Zekanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21333	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State. I don't know if you're reading the paper. Do you read the paper daily? No, I don't. Here's today's daily newspaper, I don't want to advertise, but it's about Free Dalmatia on this subject, the title says, "The helpless old people of the crown left without worry," so read maybe you can solve it. "A few powerless old men of the crown left without any concern. The mother has been completely immobilized for years, the father is severely ill and has been cared for daily by two daughters and patronages, but now they are all positive for the virus, and the powerless old men have lost any care." Here, I'll give you the paper and take a look. Unfortunately, the crown mostly hits just like this, and the system failed. So we have a whole series of examples, this example is very nice where we have two daughters who care about fixed parents, unfortunately both daughters are positive for the coronary virus and can't take care of immovable parents, and the system has no people to help their parents. Call the office and ask who it's about. Here's the two people that were headed that system. Call Free Dalmatia and ask who it's about, help the people. And they're not the only ones, and they're not the only ones. So this is one big problem that needs to be solved. I know this is a new situation in which no one is coping, a completely new situation, but here we must stress that regardless of what is new, the obvious are huge, huge failures in the system. You solve them, you get away from that problem that's concrete, it's not abstract.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21334	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bedeković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21335	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I think he's hurt again. In 238, where an esteemed colleague is false, noting that the welfare system does not have people to take care of these two old people, it is a notorious lie and complete untrueness. It is necessary to know a little better about the system and the way the system works and to know that in such situations the welfare centre to which it should be addressed is obliged and will surely organise all possible assistance and care.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21336	My colleague Bedeković this time you get a warning, you've replicated this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of the Zekanovic you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21337	The Honorable President of HS. Art. In 238. I would only brief my colleague Bedekovic when the secretary of state reads the newspaper freely and you throw your eye out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21338	My colleague Zekanovic and you received a warning. This was no violation of the Rules of Procedure but abuse of that institute. Let's move on now. The respected colleague Natalija Martincevic is the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21339	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The additions to this law are an opportunity to talk about the extensive problem of homes for older and powerless in Croatia. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia still does not have a clear strategy for long-term care that would respond to the needs of older people, which, unfortunately, is particularly evident in a situation where the pandemic caused by Covid-19 today is in Croatia. Croatia's public expenditure for long-term care of older people is less than 1% of GDP, it is unquestionable that we are a country whose population is older than the EU average. This trend of ageing populations has been growing for 70 years, but politics has systematically ignored it and here I am talking about all governments and not just about homes for older and powerless. But as for them, unfortunately, we have a relatively derelict and outdated system that can hardly respond to today’s needs of care for the elderly. In Croatia today we have 45 county homes and 3 countries where there are about 11,000 people. There are private homes whose numbers can't be determined with certainty, at least I couldn't, but it's accounted for as being about 150, and there's about 6,000 older people living there, but here I am not, I'm not saying. Of course, the needs for the accommodation of older people are much higher, so waiting lists number more than 72,000 people, and in county homes depending on the room and type of accommodation are waiting for accommodation on average 8.g. Taking into account all that information or the capacities of state and county homes, as well as private and family homes for older and powerless, we come to the conclusion that there is room for only 3.7% of people older than 65 years in all homes together. In addition to long waiting lists, different prices in state and county and private homes are present and unequal regional distribution of available places. Still, looking at the comprehensive, users located in the state and county homes for the elderly are still the most privileged group of Croatian pensioners because they have 24-hour care, a subsidized price and yet mostly more quality conditions than some other solutions. The government is in 2020. for 48 state and county homes singled out cca. 178 million kuna. According to the table I have the most money here, Split-Dalmatia County received around 23 million kuna, Osijek-Baranja 17,5 million kuna, City of Zagreb 16 million kuna, etc., at the very bottom of the scale is the Varazdin County with 4.4 million kuna. Some counties of course have more of these county homes, so the total amount of co-financing is higher, but the problem is that large differences are visible also in comparison to the financing of individual homes. For example, what I spoke about briefly in the replica, the Varazdin House for older and powerless years is in an unequal position in co-financing by the state, which, of course, makes it difficult for him to do business regularly and, unfortunately, drives him to raise consumer prices. Compared to the number of users and the comparison of the cumulative average of financing per user in other counties, the Varazdin County and the House of Elderly and Powerless in Varazdin has been cut off by exactly 3 million kuna per year. In a little over eight years. We lost more than 25 million kuna. Is a state user in Varazdin County, in our home pays exactly 40% less than users in other homes in Croatia. What is further important is the fact that the Varazdin County ends a major phase of investment in the home this year, which includes the overall energy recovery of the home. This entire investment amounts to 33 million kuna. The Varazdin County prepared the project, it applied it, and we received 14.4 million kuna from the EU, the domicillary component provided us with an additional 7.3 million kuna, but for 9.3 million credits, it had to be additionally in debt to the home itself. So all of these projects, these assets and credit debt that we're actually investing in state property. We have warned the minister and we believe that this situation will soon be resolved. Varazdin County, however it may be, will not allow the home to fail. These funds have produced large procedures, were renovated and arranged and facades and roofing and cooling system, solar panels, two elevators, etc. However, the remaining internal arrangement is important to note that the home is over 40 years old. And that's 40 years old. It was because of this kind of partial funding that was not regulated, and now the arrangement of the internal interior has become truly imperative. Out of all of this, mainly because of the unequal status of the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Varazdin County, an urgent increase in funds is also essential. The above, as I said, we spoke to the minister, it has been announced that this injustice will be corrected, you have confirmed it today, here just please some more concrete deadlines. As far as the proposed supplements themselves are concerned, it is important to say that homes have been struggling with this pandemic for nine months now. As a county, one of the 3 counties in Croatia has provided a special dislocated, dislocated location for covid patients with the help of the ministry we really thank. However, the implementation of the prescribed measures along with regular work has brought many additional work and engagements, often impossible working hours, and a whole series of unplanned expenses. In addition, home staff are constantly exposed to anger and users who often have less understanding of the whole situation, the anger of their families because they cannot reach them, of course with constant anxiety when the virus enters their home. I will briefly convince what it looks like in the real world home to the elderly and powerless who a month ago had a virus breach. So, two nurses in the home from the beginning of this situation have so far taken over 800 swabs for users and workers, and in order to get tests on positive users during the day and to put them into isolation. A covid department currently has 20 positive users who were taken care of by one sister in the 24-hour shift, a total of 3 that were exchanged per day. Now there's only two left that work every other day for 24 hours, so all day long. The entire home of 340 users is operated by 2 or 3 nurses in shifts of 24 hours, and almost half of home users are weakly mobile or immobilized. The kitchen that prepares and serves food, now in the user rooms, works in two groups per shift of 14 hours, every other day and so on for months. Of the 14 cleaning women due to a measure of isolation and self-insulation, at one point only 6 of them worked on shifts of 12 hours without a day off. Of the 5 laundromats, because of one positive, at one point, 4 were in isolation, it remained only one. At this point, due to a positive finding or self-insulation, only 30 employees are employed by a total of 97 employees. And now the principalship and the staff are really asking what's going on with these additions to the law? As far as working isolation is concerned, and in the context of the working conditions that I have stated, there are no conditions for it. Human resources, and hardly labourers, there are no conditions, there are no human resources, and of course workers are not, given the conditions they have been doing for months, are not willing to accept it. When we talk about redistributing working hours, it must be clear that we are not talking about some activity here where working hours can be redistributed. This is, for example, possible in tourism. You work 9 months overtime and then in those remaining months you do less or get on vacation. This season lasts all year, so at this point any such redistribution of working time is actually impossible. There are already too few workers present on a continuous basis. Continuing illnesses and many do not arrive at all, nor do they use the planned vacation. At this point, workers are not to be allowed, and they have nothing to pay overtime for, they cannot be replaced because there are no funds in the budget. Overtime hours turn into days off that can't be used. These are sometimes from the experience of working and living conditions in homes for older and powerless. We certainly appreciate the intensities of both the Minister and the Ministry to try to fix the situation, facilitate work, and it is good to create this legal framework for, as a basis for further decision-making. We will support the adoption of this law, but we are certainly asking the minister to take concrete steps to improve the situation in the homes and to allow as much normal work and the functioning of all employees as possible. By doing so, their families, of course, who are in the same difficult situation and, of course, a better quality of life for the users. And lastly, I would really like to give full support, and here we often mention medical workers, doctors, nurses, and I don't know if we mentioned that now all employees, employees and sisters in homes are older and powerless, so this way I express special, special support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21340	Thank you, too. Now will be the turn of the SDP representative club, respected counterparts Ivana Posavec Krivec. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21341	I thank the esteemed president of HS, colleagues and colleagues. State secretary with an associate. We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Social Welfare Act with the final proposal for a law. At the very beginning, let me express our great dissatisfaction that today we are only discussing amendments to the law, and we are not discussing the new Social Welfare Act, which was then announced by our colleague and current prime minister in January this year, the law is in the final phase, and he is in a complete and quality way addressing the issue of supervision of institutions and homes. This long-awaited and announced law should reportedly be better regulated by all other issues in the welfare system, the care provider's problem, the parent's parents, guaranteed minimum benefits, persons with disabilities and all other social care groups and a number of other problems accumulated in the system and indicated by users. Today, the secretary of state, you first said there was a new law in the draft. I ask the question, does this mean that you gave up this law that was completed in the spring, which was organised by the previous minister? And then after that announced law, the elections passed, the new law disappeared from the political scene, and now in early December we get a law that thematically adds to the debate we had here in HS last night, which was about protecting our citizens from infectious diseases. We are all witnessing that the outbreak of Covid-19 disease has made it difficult to carry out social care activities in general since March this year, which has led to a continuing lack of enough workers to carry out regular jobs. Unfortunately, during this period, we have often witnessed the fatal consequences of the outbreak of the virus into institutions in social care, as well as the lack of necessary protective and medical equipment. We in the SDP Club have been stressing for a long time that the state is in extraordinary circumstances and even in a state of emergency. We also stress that, in this state, the most vulnerable, weakest social groups, but also those who suffer from the crisis are worsened by the social situation of households, which, unlike Croatia, recognized 126 countries of the world and introduced a number of new measures in response to the crisis. Croatia is the only one in Europe that does not have a package of social protection measures under pandemic conditions. The national budget for next year does not provide for funds for vulnerable groups, but takes down 3 billion kuna in the position of social protection. Unfortunately, while we from the SDP, on the one hand, propose measures that extend the social security network to different social groups, the government and the resolution ministry have shown full passiveness in the field of social protection and thus lack of interest in the quality of life of the most vulnerable parts of society. We are now, in a way, brought to the wall as a society, and it is necessary to reach out to the solutions which are subject to the amendment of this law, and at first I will point out that the SDP club will support the proposed amendments to the law because they stem from the urgent need to address specific crisis situations in order to ensure that activities are carried out in social care institutions and the social service providers with which the ministry has concluded a contract for the provision of services. Unfortunately, these changes are necessary because so far there is no legal basis that is possible in the social care system to determine the organisation of work in such a way as to ensure the regular performance of the activities and satisfactory needs of the users, i.e. to mobilise the workers in the system and to deploy them to places where there is a need for the duration of emergency situations, and the need exists for several reasons. One is the depravity of a system that lacks sufficient investment in people and equipment. Now we come up with an absurd situation to allow the redistribution of people, but on the other hand, it's clear that in the system of these people there aren't, there's not enough of them. In particular, there is a lack of healthcare professionals and nursing staff in homes for elderly and institutions for persons with disabilities who are additionally burdened with covid infection and subject to isolation measures. Today, special thanks should be given to all workers in the social care system, health and health care. We are witnessing that all employees in the field must care for the users in the facilities. There is also a question of jeopardising the functioning of those institutions that are the founder of local or regional levels and which invest their resources in people and equipment, and the state does not worry about them at all, or only through a contract provides minimal means of providing services to users from all over the country. Every year, the state provides fewer and fewer funds, and the counties plan to cover their losses in advance because they cannot survive with these decentralised funds. Today, this institution, where local and regional authorities invest significant funds and suffer additionally because they work well and have a better epidemiological picture, sufficient equipment and protective resources, have a people. This will bring her down to the same level, and I don't know who's going to judge, for example. from which institutions in Sisak can be taken people and redistributed to Split. This simplifies that the home in Split can get experts from other institutions in the system because they have the most infected beginnings. Solidarity at these times is extremely important, but in the long run, this can't be good for welfare institutions. The SDP will support these changes, but we continue to insist on fully redecorating the system and the new law. We are afraid that this is another step away from the necessary continuation of decentralisation and unfortunately the nail in the box of application of European social policy in the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, we also point to a problem that arises in both health care and should be dealt with in parallel by applying the same model to enter into the health care workers' system that are at the Employment Service and waiting for a traineeship contract or internship. The workers in the system are on the verge of power, they're physically and mentally exhausted because they're already doing long and uninterrupted shifts. We support this law primarily because its adoption is the only way to ensure that, under these conditions and circumstances, we have the necessary care for people in the social care system. This includes the organisation of work with the mobilisation of the people, the requisition of equipment and means of transport, the temporary use of business and other facilities for the provision of social services to social services institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Croatia, of local or regional self-government units, and the provider of services with which the Ministry has concluded a contract on the provision of social care services. The law also provides for the redistribution of working hours up to 12 hours for 24 hours and for the isolation of workers in the premises of social service providers or for working isolation that cannot last for more than 10 days. Professional and other workers may be instructed to use their respective vacation in the working isolation of the institution or, in short, to be isolated from their families. Such attempts by the organisation of work have been applied by some institutions during the 19-virus coronary epidemic and have been revived in some parts of Croatia. The secretary of state today mentioned that those in Croatia are over 200. It should be noted that redeployed working hours are not considered overtime. It is an extremely important provision of the law and we from the SDP Club welcome it which prescribes that professional and other workers must give their written consent to this form of work. If the worker is not in agreement, he shall not suffer any adverse consequences. We also avoid possible labour disputes and lawsuits. We also find the intervention that a colleague exhibited on behalf of the Left-Green Block Club is acceptable and we are ready to support it. On behalf of the SDP Club, I will especially point out that the elderly are considered the most endangered population age group in view of the consequences of the Covid-19 virus infection on their health. And the most endangered among the elderly are those who are located in institutions or homes for older and powerless persons. We believe that this legal proposal will also contribute to improving the quality of life in a home for the elderly at the time of the epidemic and the dangers that the virus may face under closed conditions. The workers are on the verge of strength, and it is no wonder that every user, or patient in the social care system, can not pay full attention. The whole atmosphere certainly has a negative impact on the mental health of all of us, especially the elderly and the powerless who are located in homes where the crown currently lacks visitors. The SDP insists on a request to the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy and asks for a multidisciplinary working team to be formed immediately and to develop a package of measures for socially endangered citizens, to find money from the current reserve for their elemental protection. At the very end, I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, most of the time here in HS was refused a week ago and the conclusion of the SDP on the need for the adoption of the Act on Inclusive Adjunction and Personal Assistant. I'm saying it today on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21342	Let's move on, now he will speak on behalf of National Minority Representatives Club dear colleague Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21343	Honorable President HS, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the debate, I would like to say that the National Minority Representatives' Club will support this bill, but in addition to the content of these amendments, I will look back on a few other issues related to the Social Care Act or the social care system in Croatia. It is clear that the pandemic of the coronary virus has led to circumstances that we have never had in the modern history of humanity, and therefore this proposal is a logical step in organising a social care system. It is the basis for the decision-making of the relevant ministers to mobilise workers, requisition of transport equipment, temporary use of business and other rooms for the provision of social services, an institution of social care, the founder of which is the unit of local self-government or the provider of services with which the ministry has a contract to provide social care services. It is clear that it is necessary in a special way to regulate the area of working time for social service providers, especially those who care about particularly sensitive groups of citizens who are the most vulnerable in the pandemic. In the event of specific circumstances in the social care system, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of mobilising professionals and other workers and to regulate the area of working time, requisition of equipment and means of transport and the temporary use of business and other facilities to provide social services, thus ensuring the regular performance and satisfaction of the necessary users. All of this should facilitate the functioning of the welfare system while the virus's coronary epidemic is ongoing and it is logical to support such a proposal. But when it comes to the system of social care of the law that regulates, I need to highlight a few of the things I have been up for years, which directly affect the most Roma community in the Republic of Croatia. I have to point out that six years ago I asked for changes to this law, all the resolution ministers I spoke to so far promised to make changes, but there was never anything. In the current law, there are several illogicalities that do not seem to me to be in line with the real life or the real situations that exist on the ground. For example, I still find it incomprehensible that the user of social assistance in any form or form must not use a personal vehicle and not only must he not own the vehicle even the cheapest one but must not even use a borrowed vehicle to transport it from point A to point B, even if he is going to get medicines and to the store. And we all know where Roma settlements are, mostly from towns and villages, often more than a dozen kilometers without available public transport. Now, I'd like someone to tell me how a person should come from a Roma settlement to a town 10 to 15 km away without public transportation, and he can't use a car because his social benefits will be taken away from him? I repeat once again, not only if he owns a car but also if he uses a borrowed car. I'd like to know how the state budget is protected so that someone has to walk on drugs and food? And some employees of the welfare system often give the impression that they're waiting to catch Roma using a vehicle and take away his social resources immediately. They're efficient and act like they're police or a secret service that monitors people. Unfortunately, some other segments of their work do not do the same. I know many will now say that I'm wrong and that you can't have a car and use social aid, but would you please explain to me that it's a car worth, for example, 10 thousand kunas of some luxury that should cause you to lose your welfare? I don't think I should particularly point out that a car today does not belong to something luxurious but falls into the necessary needs, and I have already explained how much it is needed in Roma settlements where there is no public transport. However, changes should not be afraid, but their adoption should take into account both common sense and the circumstances that exist in real life, not just in bureaucratic offices. In time, there were resistances and suggestions that people working for public good remain and the amount of social assistance if this was actually done the opposite of logic, many instead of work chose not to work, not necessarily because they were lazy, but in this context it was not worth doing. Many have done themselves more harm because employment is precisely one of the conditions of easier integration. But besides allowing people to make enough money for a decent life, it was also possible to find out who he was and who wasn’t willing to work to make two or three thousand kunas in addition to social assistance. This makes it easier to see who does not want to work but rather only to receive social assistance. We have an example from other countries of how it works, for example, Belgium. Social benefit users in that country have an obligation to do jobs for the general benefit, and now if the user, for example, goes to work in the forest three hours a day to meet the obligation to stay and do full-time work, and the difference is paid to him as a salary and remains to him and compensation. I'd like you to remember one more thing that they wanted to introduce into the welfare system, which was the introduction of a food voucher option instead of a guaranteed minimum social care bill. And let's not lie, this proposal was given by some political options because of Roma not because of anyone else, although it would harm all other citizens who depend on a guaranteed minimum fee. And it was then wanted by some politicians that due to the process of individuals, the entire Roma community, or all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, would have affected all socially endangered citizens, who unfortunately are very much affected. I personally organised a meeting many times with representatives of local self-government units and representatives of social care centres and trying to find ways to even the application of the Social Care Act. In fact, as I was already saying, practice even today shows that social workers interpret the law in different ways, and that a call from some local politicians was accepted and that such a proposal would then be given more discretionary power to decide who to give a bonus to and whom to make a fee. The Roma community is largely composed of a young and working-age population and every Roma receiving social compensation is a multiple loss for our country and our Roma community. I know it's not easy to choose the hard way but it's often and easier to use populist solutions. But I prefer to choose the hard way and invite everyone else to, together with us, try to find a long-term solution by designing and implementing projects of social and... and other socially endangered citizens. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in order to be successful in this, to design and implement these projects, it is necessary to have a good legislative framework, the current Social Care Act is not ideal, but it is not bad. I hope and call on the government to come up with a proposal for a new Social Welfare Act not only because of Roma, but because of all the citizens involved in this law, and I will very, very actively participate in the debate on this law and make constructive proposals that will respect the reality of our community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21344	Thank you, too. Now we'll please erase the pay phone and then after that goes the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, the esteemed colleague Davor Dretar. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21345	Thank you, well-respected Mr. President HS, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here I will begin with one quote by the ancient Roman philosopher Seneca “Nothing is sadder than an old man burdened with years who, apart from his age and has no other proof that he lived, ” so age is something that awaits us all. Age is something to be and to live a worthy, worthy man and, of course, within the circle of his loved ones. Our Croatian tradition and Catholic science teach us to respect the old and powerless, so in our tradition which is seen and through written literature we can see many examples of respect for older people. Unfortunately, in our case, the situation is such that our old people, our old and powerless people, sometimes their last years of gold, as they sometimes say, live in many other ways not only those golden and worthy men, that they may enjoy old age and not talk about it. The terrible fact that the average pension in Croatia is just a little bit larger than 2,500 kuna makes it clear that our elderly have little choice. Social homes for the elderly and powerless are, we know for sure what the situation is, and we're not going to attack anyone here, but just clearly state the fact that they're overcrowded, that rows are waiting for places of six. 7, 8, and sometimes more than a decade. Here my mother is in the same situation, waiting for years and looking forward to going home even though we in Croatia still still have one of those old thinking "wow, they gave parents or parents to a home" where it is considered something as negative as they will say to the community, and what people will say and of course how our old ones will live there. There are, however, huge differences, from those homes for older and powerless who, as founders, have a Croatian state to those who are private, thus resulting from private initiative and signed contracts with the competent state institution. I was recently a member of the jury. Last year in this month, a member of the jury at the acting meetings of older people or the homes of older people in the Dom Medveščak here in Zagreb at Iblero Square and I saw a beautiful home and wonderful people who work there, I saw 10 acting groups, an elderly person, and I will tell you honestly, I am delighted to see how much more energy there is in them, how much talent there is, how much will and love for life. Unfortunately, perhaps about a week later, I was in the Croatian Zagorje area of Gornja Stubica where they asked me to go see a home for which I had absolutely no power to go see because they told me that there were old people lying in conditions that were not worthy of pets or pets, let alone man. 15,000 of these people are home-protectors, waiting lists, I said, they're miles long, and we're in a private nursing system fighting, of course, to retain the basic dignity of these old people, to sign contracts that are legitimately suspected that they're not all very well agreed on. We also know that nursing homes in private often exceed the agreed capacity of accommodation of their protégés, they live there under inadequate conditions, primarily security. This is how the already respected colleague Bartulica mentioned, this year we witnessed the terrible events in the Long War where two people died and here in the area of my electoral unit in Andrasevec where as many as 6 people died, in both cases it was the fires, this happened, in Andrasevec it happened in January. Now we can only assume whether these old men were trying to heat up additionally what eventually proved the expert report that went out on the field. These 6 persons were located in a wooden building located in the courtyard of the home. Knowing the way the residential buildings in Croatia are built in Zagorje, I can tell you that it was once a barn, most likely, which is a little built up and inside are put in by these people who had to warm up in some way with some kind of heaters and it's clearly the horror in which they ended up. We know that private-owned homes are well-sighted for some and excellent business. Let me just draw attention to the situation as it is said, those of us who are currently a young pensioner, who are just about to get seriously older one day, and unfortunately I'm also afraid of a helpless person. According to data from a population income survey conducted by the DZS, the rate of risk of poverty in the past year was 18.3%, a terrible concern. People at risk of poverty or social exclusion in Croatia have 23.3%. The poverty risk threshold for single-member households is 32,500 kuna per year, for households with two adults and two young children aged 14 years 68,200 which is slightly more than 5.5 thousand kuna per month. So, it's us, it's our reality, it's gonna be us who'll soon be filling ranks and signing up for a house in nursing homes because private ones with prices of 5 to 10,000 kuna won't be able to pay. When we look at some more items in this report we must truly be horrified, 48.6% of Croatian families cannot afford a week of vacation outside the house. 52% cannot settle unexpected financial expenditure. So, the boiler malfunction, the refrigerator or some home appliances or unexpected vehicle malfunction. When we add up data on the possibility of bringing the end to an end, very difficult, difficult or difficulties in Croatia, almost 80% of the population survives from pay to pay. But not all of them are black, but in the name of the Homeland Movement, we will say in the welfare system they are doing wonderful, valuable, and beautiful people who care for those who are marginalized in some way, put them in nursing homes, especially with a terrible pandemic of the covid-19 virus that even made it impossible for those human contacts with members of their family who believe held their head above water. Our old, helpless in our homes are certain I'm depressed, I must admit my personal family case when my wife's mother was escorted to eternal rest without seeing her for the last four months. It's clear that I'm not accusing anyone, I'm not attacking anyone, the measures are like that, and they should be respected, it's all clear. We welcome from the bottom of our hearts all worthy women, all hardworking workers and employees in this system, and we want them not to give up. But as the Homeland Movement, we can't support these amendments to the law, because we think that regulation will almost make it work, increase the huge number of hours for these people, and try to meet these problems, so on. Free days just result in a pile of lawsuits against the ministry or the competent institution for failure to comply with the provisions of the collective agreement. I guess these people are gonna do their job, they're honest and honest and they're gonna do it, but we can't support a law that's gonna produce lawsuits for disobeying the provisions of collective agreements. And I will finish by saying hello again to all the employees and employees, but also to all the home-protectors with one and a bit of optimistic Cicero's saying, "No one's old enough to live another year." Thank you very much for listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21346	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Nada Murganic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21347	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to say about the Social Care Act on this change, I'm going to say something about the whole system, but first of all, I'd like to remind us all together that today is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, so ours is more according to the estimates of 500,000 citizens who are using different disability benefits or the basis of disability, but because of some other circumstances in that category. On an international day and otherwise, such dates are useful because on that occasion, we are once again aware of all that we should do for such persons, what we have done and, in any case, congratulate them on all that they have done to make this community better by their existence, by their work and by their pawning. As far as this law is concerned, I'd just say that he's simply an inevitability that's going on with this covid crisis of ours, and it's a continuation of yesterday's law or yesterday's debate about the health law, and I think that because of the legal void, it should definitely be passed and supported. In addition to one, let's say the mobilization of workers and the deployment of employees in other service providers, of course and the requisition of transport equipment and the temporary use of business and work space I think this redistribution of working time and the use of days in the welfare system is not a novelty and I am not afraid that there will be problems as stated so far, given that this is already a common practice and has never happened to be about some kind of abuse. However, because of the mobilization and requisition of equipment and resources, it certainly is often necessary, that this is new in these new difficult circumstances of life and work and employees and of our users and that is now one inevitable. What I heard in the debate I must really, here you may be amazed, thanking and congratulating a fellow Dreter who is extremely sensitive, but also knowledge and understanding spoke about employees and in the welfare system. What he described as having experienced our home is our retirement homes. Let me be personal, I'm 38. I worked in the social care system, so as a direct provider of services and work with users, and I know very well what we can do, what we want. She would point out that in our institutions employees are long-term employees, they do not leave these institutions no matter how small the salaries are and no matter how difficult they may be. And you know why? Because they're homes. It is with the right name home because our employees and our customers are in a warm emotional relationship, a professional relationship cannot possibly be exclusively in this institution, in these institutions. And you know why? Because our users are disabled persons, especially for some decades they have been placed in these institutions, and sometimes our foster parents spend their entire work experience and leave it in that institution, and there are emotional connections, and that is why we all find it terribly difficult to find criticism that may have been justified for some time, but you can understand that everyday working with these difficult fixed persons who have a number of chronic difficulties, where they are burdened with health and social pathology, where they are separated from the family, so not only now in this isolation but also otherwise separated where families can't, let's just say, some of them don't want to worry about where the nurse is, that housekeeper is the only time they're talking to them, the only ones who hold their hands when they die and believe this job requires a terrible amount of energy, and love, but that love we regenerate exactly from our users. Believe me, they were extremely grateful to all the employees, especially when they sacrificed so much that they were in the right lockdown in work isolation to protect them. Of course, this covid didn't just enter retirement homes, unfortunately it was brought from outside to retirement homes, and I think this approach we have to call ministers, State Secretary, because there was someone left alone and abandoned. It's so malicious that I have nothing to talk about anymore. Could the neighbor have called the center for social work or the direct ministry before calling the press, that would have been the right way and well-intentioned? We're talking decentralisation. Our mouths are full of desire for decentralisation. County homes have been since 2001. Decentralized, and we're crying here that the state hasn't given a lot of decentralised funds. Decentralised funds are exclusively as minimum insurance, what all users and employees must have in all institutions throughout Croatia by the state. And the difference, above standard, praise God, may the county be given, they are founders. You know very well how much money is released by tax reform in favour of JLS, so if we take care of them, we ask our local leaders to invest it in funds and, yes, in homes and to invest in the Centre for providing services to the community. Why do all the elders have to be in a home? Some just don't want it, some want it. So let's provide them with a variety of services, not just criticise them. And one more thing, but good thing, I started in the right direction, so I'm not going to criticize the MPs, but maybe it would be good to volunteer a little bit sometime in those institutions, of course not now, so let's see what life and work in those institutions is like. Here's our representative did it the best way. I know exactly what these little parties of ours mean and when we get famous faces or anyone who can cheer us up. I'm going to point out once again what's really important and I know from personal experience how traumatic it was for me. When it comes to heavy accusations, when it comes to charges of negligence that led to some tragedies, violence, which led to death and pointing to a particular profession, to certain people, even people with a name and a last name, that's not good. You know we have people who are under different psychic burdens, people who can see it as a revenge trigger. I can't help but get the impression that the tragedy in Djakov is the result of a systematic media link between social workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21348	The next Club of Representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Dragana Jeckov will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21349	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS, ma'am. State secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I am taking the opportunity to express my full support to all employees in the social care system, and if the changes to the laws that are in front of us will help to make their work a certain relief from the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support it. So we have before us the law that we discussed in the fifth month and the legitimate question is why are we talking about it again? We're talking about him again because he has one legal void that actually makes these circumstances happen to us, and that legal void has become even more pronounced. In fact, the existing Social Care Act does not regulate the organisation of work in institutions but applies the Labour Act as a general law and under which it is not actually possible to organise work in social care institutions in such a way as to ensure that the activities are carried out regularly and the needs of the users are met during exceptional circumstances. E precisely the existence of these exceptional circumstances caused by the Covid-19 epidemic is the basis for the individual decisions of the Secretary-General for the immobilization of workers, the requisition of equipment and means of transport, the temporary use of business and other rooms for the provision of social services while these circumstances persist, so that by supplementing this law we are actually giving authority to the responsible persons of the institution of social care to introduce a redistribution of working time, as we have had several times during the day to hear that the work of 12 hours 10 days after which the employees would be on vacation, however, during these 10 days when they work they would actually be in the institutions and time scheduled for rest would be used in those institutions. As I said at the beginning of this presentation, if it really helps social workers in social institutions, then they should be supported and simply questioned, and perhaps in some time we will have the opportunity to hear about the effects of this change, but if it is a redistribution to which it is insisted, redistribution of working time, something that is necessary and which will improve work, facilitate work, but then make it more accessible to users, then it is something to really insist on. However, it may also be necessary to consider this issue of mobilising an expert worker who, in fact, mobilizes an expert worker is actually a temporary reference from one social service provider to the other and one part of the social care institution, as we have heard, already has a problem with sub-capacitation. A legitimate question arises whether this mobilization is really going to achieve the effect that is expected to take place? Not to be rude, I'm going to say something that may not sound good, but we don't want to see any spilling from hollow to empty. How can you redistribute and mobilize an expert associate, a social care person from one place to another, without having a problem in your first institution? Here, it just wouldn't be good if something like that happened. Here, so much for the amendments and additions to this law that, as I said, the SDSS Representatives Club will support. However, let me take the opportunity to say a few things for the rest of my time about social care issues at all. It should be said that the activity of social care is in a thankless position and when normal conditions and primarily because of sub-capacitation in this area or a large disproportionate nature between the service provider and the number of service users, and the epidemic, as I said, has become more pronounced and more visible. So, justifiably, it is, in fact, justifiably, when it is said that this is one of the most affected activities and that is why it is necessary to pay the most attention to this activity because we are, of course, the most sensitive because it is indeed one sensitive group of society, especially the elderly and those who depend on other people's care, above all on other people's care. Just for the sake of all of this, I will be so free and well-intentioned as to suggest a few guidelines that may have its place in the new law, I sincerely hope so, and that, let's say, the practice has shown that state and decentralised homes actually have too little and that there is no need to encourage further construction because there is not enough room for a social category of pensioners who cannot settle the costs of accommodation themselves. In this respect, prices in private homes should also be regulated by the state because they are very often unrealistic compared to the average pension. It is necessary to strengthen inspection supervision of the work of all institutions, both state and private, of which you are a state secretary, the secretary has told us something, and to continue a good practice of networking of homes for the elderly with the non-profit sector, that is something that is good and should be pointed out, especially when they are provided, home users provide additional services and donations of products. There are other difficult situations in which, in fact, which have been caused by the current epidemic, which can be slightly corrected by additional procedures in, possibly in the law that we expect and concern in fact very specific things, concerns members of the Serb community that I represent, who are very often persons living in rural areas and who are particularly traffic-insulated and who have a problem with public transport, said something to fellow Kajtazi, so there is no right to be social care users, there is no right to have a car. However, if you have traffic isolation, then you have an additional problem how to go for medicines, how to go for a medical examination and others. It's a serious problem and I'm absolutely on the side of my fellow Keatazi who said something about it specifically. Here, I will openly say exactly one, the Serbian National Council is implementing a European project that has its very basic purpose to prevent this traffic isolation or project is called "From Door to Door" and is therefore implemented in a period of 2.g. where people are transported for free, so they are transported to meet some of their basic needs and that is now something that works, it is about the space of Gline, Lower Lapca and Benkovec. But to tell you the truth, I'm particularly worried about what's gonna happen after 2nd. After the project and, after it is realised, how will their contact be ensured, means to ensure their basic needs because they are traffic-insulated? And the other thing I want to point out is, and as I have said well-intentioned suggestions, it is desirable to increase the amount of minimum compensation guaranteed in the fourth and fifth months of receiving about 60,000 people because, therefore, it is also to be expected that, given the circumstances that are happening to us, and that the epidemics, that the poverty rate is increasing, is something that is also expected, which is also why it should not be put in the sand, that is something that can happen to us, no one wants, but it can, in fact, be very possible and so many club representatives will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21350	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which will speak respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21351	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I guess I'll talk to you later, huh?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21352	I'll talk to you later. I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21353	Yes, thank you very much, and once again, I welcome the secretary of state with my associates, as well as my colleagues and colleagues. Since the beginning of the crown crisis in the focus of all people in Croatia, from politicians through the media and then, most importantly, citizens are the health system, as we deal with the pandemic, whether there are enough beds and staff, whether there will be enough respirators, how many people in hospitals, how many have recovered, and how unfortunately they died. Minister Willy Berosh doesn't come down from small screens and even if it's better for him to come down. Statements, statuses, letters, and messages from doctors, nurses, technicians, and patients listen, watch and read almost every day. Completely in the shadow of this is another extremely important system which also deals with people in the most sensitive situations, vulnerable, deprived, needy or abandoned, it is a social care system. This bill is already explained enough, allowing for the mobilization of workers, equipment, vehicles, rooms, to shorten the idea of laws as much as possible. It is also given authority to the responsible persons to introduce a redistribution of working time. This redistribution provides that workers can work for 10 days on 12-hour shifts with the use of vacation time at the facility where they work, so to speak. in the so-called work isolation. What the law also predicts is that such redistribution requires written consent from workers, which is fine and expected. It also states that a worker who refuses such redistribution must not suffer the adverse consequences. I am more interested in how it will be provided and to whom workers who do not want such redistribution will be able to complain. What I don't understand is that this work of a 12-hour shift every 10 days in a row with isolation in the workplace all that time is not considered overtime. The right of workers to raise wages under difficult working conditions is prescribed by the Labour Act, and this situation should be better regulated as well and this is more or less what the proposal is about. However, the most interesting part is a relatively short but very informative report on the public consultation or consultation with the interested public, what we usually call a public debate. The draft bill came up with 3 comments, which the applicant claims did not contain any concrete comments. This may indeed be so when we take into account the provisions of the law itself, but it seems to me that every 3 comments contained very concrete remarks that when better promoters actually say that the law is difficult or completely inconclusive. It's inconclusive because it's already working on the system and now it's working on maximum or above it. Six years old. The continued HDZ authorities were not enough for any shift. Thus, the first comment states: “It is worth noting that most institutions and homes of social care do not have enough staff required in accordance with the Regulation on minimum conditions for the provision of social services, and there are not enough for financial reasons. Following this, as a major problem that could arise in the event of the entry of workers, there is a shortage of workers in its own institution." The end of the quote. I can't interpret this any other way than that there aren't as many people in the system as prescribed by the Regulation and any interventions proposed by these amendments to the law would only strengthen chaos. Somehow it sounds to me like we already have a similar problem somewhere. Another comment is: “Most homes do not have enough workers for their own purposes. ” Very similar to the first one, there aren't enough people anyway. And the third comment is: “The number of employees in the social care system service provider is often below the minimum conditions prescribed by the Regulation because of a clear lack of medical staff and other professional workers.” So the third comment from the public debate tells us the same thing. He's telling us no people, he's telling us no one to work. And now he has come to the assembly of a bill that may make sense at first sight and should not be controversial, but as soon as a little scratch beneath the surface, always the same old list of problems of HDZ Croatia. In the most sensitive systems such as health care or social care, we don't have enough people, not enough money, not when everything is as normal. We're particularly short on professional staff. I'm sure, since we have two exes sitting with us, in the assembly and two former ministers covering that vault, that it's absolutely clear what they're talking about. So, you can pass a good law, you can also put together some good frames, but unfortunately everything always falls on you. And then of course when the crown came, and all together unprepared and tense and under normal circumstances we couldn't expect anything but trouble. Those in health care are visible immediately and daily because health care is at the heart of the public. But problems in the welfare system, even though in the shadow, we could be grabbed by the neck from that shadow in the long run. During this general root crisis, many unhappy people will become even more unhappy, many lonely and isolated even more isolated and isolated, many sicker, poorer, even poorer, turned off even more off, not to list further. All of them, our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who use social welfare services will need them no more. And from the example of this simple law of a very short public debate, we get confirmation of what we unfortunately know. The social care system is overstretched and poorly organized. There are too few people, especially experts, too little money and equipment. That's why in the end it doesn't matter how we vote for this bill. Your majority will bring it, but you won't be able to carry it because as soon as you move someone and mobilize to patch a hole in one place where you moved that person, it'll open even bigger. The Corona crisis has shown, and I have already said this several times on other examples, of course, that health care is always at stake, but the example of social care is also a very, very striking example that the state is not working well, that we are not prepared for the crisis, nor are we able to deal with them. For God's sake, we will deal with the consequences of the crown crisis, but on the other hand, we have even bigger problems, which is why, dear colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority, because at 6. You haven't been able to make a single serious move. Social care is very sensitive, I say, niche or very sensitive problems. There are people who, who need help, are people who are really crying for a good word at the moment of the crown crisis, for a nice look, and all that does not work in normal conditions at the time of the coronary crisis is incomparably stronger and more intense. But we can, you can pass the law, you can vote it out, you can probably vote it out no matter how we vote, but what it all falls on is people. There were too few people in the system before the corporal crisis. Even private homes that were significantly more able to pay their employees than they were paid in so-called. homes that are social... That's what they call 'em, I call 'em. I don't know, they couldn't find employees because people who were employees or in health care, or those auxiliary staff that mattered went looking for their happiness somewhere else. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this amendment of the law, you're just going to patch up the holes, but where you're going to take where you're going to move, there's going to be an even bigger hole. So this law logically is to go, logically that you made it, but it showed, in fact, that we have a problem in the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21354	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21355	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with his associates. I am one of the few who, in the government's opening speech, did not criticise the creation of the Ministry of Labour and Social, Pension and Social Care for the reason that I felt that interdepartmental co-operation within one ministry would not be questionable. However, the ministry has not yet tabled a quality move proposal in the social system. I'm deliberately speaking sociale because I'm going to trouble some other things afterwards. What I have already said about the unmovable events in elderly homes is that the system is now a valid social care system that has been abandoned and burdened with problems that have not been solved for years. The system is not transparent, the system does not protect the protégés, and we have called them protégés, which means that protecting these people with all their needs is the first priority and legislator on it through organization, through standardisation must take care of it. The system does not worry about the needs of people, does not respect their psychophysical condition, especially under the conditions of Covid-19, or this pandemic. People can't and can't be trapped in the homes of an elderly person, there's got to be a way to have time to walk, for, space and time to walk, recreation, it's the worst thing that one man can do, the worst thing that can happen to a man is to close him up. This bill of law, I will not criticise this bill because what is being resolved by the bill could have been resolved by the Rules of Procedure of the Minister. It is a redistribution of working time on sending employees into the social care system under contract with the state, with the ministry to work in another facility where there is a need or because of any circumstances for the work of that employee. Therefore, under normal circumstances and now also this bill should not because the ministry, if it has a contract, can commit its entities because it pays them, therefore also by the Minister's regulations, so a completely unnecessary, unnecessary procedure. What has been said here, I draw your attention to you, many times in the debate is spoken of as “age homes. ” These are homes for older and powerless people because if we speak “age homes ” then we learn something. Age starts in 75. Life, there's not everyone who's over 75. Deep age, then what will we have homes for a deep age or an early age not, so we talk as it says in these homes, homes for the elderly and the powerless, let's play these terminologys that talk about something else, about an encyclopaedic division in an old age. What is common, which is the common denominator of all homes, state homes, county homes, forget to say that there are even city homes, there are richer cities in the Republic of Croatia who themselves financed home building, which pay for annuities, which meet all standards regarding both the facility itself and the services to users who repay loans and still subsidise their fellow citizens part of the costs of those homes that are not so small with their say pension. So we didn't mention city homes at all because they're the latest, because they're among the better in the Republic of Croatia. We have private homes and family homes. What do they all have in common? Funding is not because outside of county and state homes all these others are on other funding, not in the network, not covered by decentralised funds. So, what's that supposed to be? There should be joint surveillance, surveillance of the work of these homes. It can't happen. I hear we hired 30 new inspectors this morning. It can't happen after such employment to find illegal homes, it can't. Either we don't know how to read the system or our statistics are worthless. Well, in this country, you can find information on everyone by ID. According to the OIB, you can know every asset he owns, every investment he makes. Guys, what are we doing? We have 30 inspectors going to search the field or waiting for someone to report, waiting for someone who didn't get a place in, let's say, a state or county home, so he had to manage because he had to work, so we found a private home somewhere, waiting for a neighbor to report on inhumane conditions. These inspectors must be able to count all the homes where, as they must and must have total control on the ground, they must be in the function of prevention, not the penalization of it. They have to come, they have to say it, it, it, it's no good, you have that deadline to remove, not now we're gonna come, now we're gonna punish. I remember the report to the International Labour Organization that said Croatia was the worst because they think inspectors should punish. Their mission is prevention. And what I would say today, a house from Petrinja appeared in the daily press. I don't want that, or the surroundings of Petrinja, I don't want to comment on it, but minimum courtesy would be to go there not one, three inspectors and question everything. It would be a minimum of courtesy because when someone only mentions that home users bonding or something, it would be a minimum, minimum courtesy to immediately take action. It's supposed to be the state administration. And last thing I want to do is trouble, we have the terms of the Covid-19 pandemic and we're talking health care. Why do we never wonder if the term “social care” is more correct or if it would be “social protection”. Well, you worry like this, you do your best, and you can cover yourself. Now, if it were social protection then we would have to, then we would have to say there is a limit to the dignity of our citizens under which no one can live. A very, very comprehensive project, a very large responsibility of the social state towards its citizens. But then we'd have to fight and protect our fellow citizens from the monsters of the execution. Then we'd have to know who's being threatened by the exercise of existence, who's no longer around and about whom we have to protect as a society. But we need to change the basic premises. We cannot make or construct protection from the poverty of our citizens with this view. We have to say "pop pop, Bobba Bob" and call problems by their real name. So to this day and to this pandemic, I could agree with the name of social care. Today and from today on, because we are going into increasingly difficult and difficult times, I think that not only the term, but the substantive design of social protection would be the basic need of Croatian citizens because we are sinking deeper and deeper into the poverty zone. People like that come to me every day. I feel for them, but I can't help it any more than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21356	Thank you very much. Before we move on to individual debates, we'll take a break for a little ventilation, and we'll meet again in 12.05 minutes. It's 11:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.08 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. At this time of the pandemic, when we record the rapid growth of the number of newly infected and dead in the Republic of Croatia, the greatest burden certainly carries a health system on its back. However, the welfare system has been greatly affected. Most of them get sick and die, our fellow citizens of older age with comorbidities, but not just older ones. People of younger and medium-life age are also ill without a comorbidity. And I am therefore taking this opportunity to point out that this fact is necessary to communicate regularly with the public, which was agreed yesterday by Minister Beros. Otherwise, we will continue to listen to inappropriate comments from individuals so that the elderly will die from something else if not from Covid, which is unacceptable. But let’s go back to a real problem that relates to the mobilization of workers in homes for older and powerless people. The law also includes service providers with which the ministry has a contract to provide social care services to a proportion of users for whom the social care contract is concluded. This would refer to private homes and family homes. Now he's wondering what it's going to look like in practice? How will this be arranged with these private homes? How will this exchange of employees work? We in Međimurje have only one home for the elderly, where Međimurje County is the founder and one home for adults whose Republic of Croatia is the founder and more private homes. All these homes do not really have enough employees because employment has been suspended and is not approved by the ministry. The frame was missing before the pandemic, and now especially because of the scope of the job, because of the illness or isolation. As far as I know in the public consultation, there is also a Regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulation on minimum conditions for the provision of social services, and we hope that at least part of these problems will be resolved. In an epidemic, you need to be in homes and health care, not just social, not just care. They should be helped by educated healthcare professionals who, as we know, do not have enough. Here I point out both the problem and the psychological problems due to the incarceration of what the user, what employees are. In our county in Međimurje, co-operation with homes leads epidemiologists. They prescribe measures, communicate with them daily, require testing, cohortize positive, and that is indeed commendable. However, before entering work isolation teams should be tested. It's a big expense to every home. Many homes have not received enough funds for personal protection. Working isolation is too much mental pressure for all closed employees, and it's not exactly the most brilliant solution. In Međimurje County, working isolation was carried out in several homes and, unfortunately, both users and employees were there. Some users have to go to the hospital for tests and tests. Sanity comes for them and no one can guarantee that the user won't get infected. It's a good thing employees don't have to accept work isolation if they don't want to. The law says: “The professional and the other worker must give his written consent, and unless he agrees to such work, he must not suffer the adverse consequences.” However, there is a question of how work will be organised if all employees refuse to do so and how will the employer be controlled if, in any way, he forces his employees to accept such work? Such things happen in a health care system in certain hospitals where some directors do the same and you can't do anything to them. He's protected by politics, the founder and the union's reactions. And what about where employees aren't involved in the union? The law further states: “Re-allocated working hours are not considered overtime.” So, if an employee works a maximum of 10 days in a row of 12 hours within the day including afternoon and night shifts in some and does not receive adequate accessories for that work, how can you motivate a worker to accept such work? Is it just by the fact that after 10 days of complete separation from the family then 10 days at home and the pay is the same? It is good, then, to supplement the Social Care Act. However, there are many open questions that need to be answered or applied in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21359	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21360	Dear colleagues, today we witnessed many discussions that mentioned the lack of employees in homes for older and powerless. We had opportunities to read in newspapers in daily newspapers about problems that occur in homes because of inadequate care. Family encounters a variety of problems when coming to their homes finds our protégés in situations where they should not be found. Do you have any judgment on how we should change that picture of employees in homes for the elderly and the powerless? You said you should hire additional doctors yourself. But the problem is that we have a Covid crisis right now, and many are getting sick. We simply do not have a sufficient number of people who have thus far been to a number of protégés. How much should we increase the number of employees to make it optimal?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21361	Dear representative Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21362	Well, thank you for your comment. Actually, I agree with what you say. The problem is, of course, not only in homes, but also in the health care system where it works, as you said, the current situation of many who are sick, who are actually not available in isolation, and this is how it is missing them. It's hard to tell now about the assessment. But according to what I see in the health system, I don't work in social care, I'm sure it would take at least 20, 30 percent more people to work at all. And I think that's the situation in homes where you have to, of course, all the protégés who require hospitalisation, to be hospitalized, these are difficult clinical images. But you also have those who are located in homes and who need to be cared for. So health care professionals, and the supervision of doctors and nurses who must be at home, and unfortunately there are not enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21363	Thank you very much. Next replica of Honored Representatives of Anka Mrak Taritash Oh, I'm sorry. [[Upadica Murganić: A pardon.]] The next replica is the respected representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21364	Thank you very much, Vice President, no problem. Here I wanted to draw attention to my colleague, as she mentioned in her debate that Međimurje County has one home for the elderly and the powerless. It's a decentralised home that's the founder of the county. And what I said in my debate on behalf of the club and I keep saying it. The Founder shall have the obligation to address all above-standards which are required more than those required by a decision on minimum standards prescribed and financed from the state level. The decision itself is already talking about what is going on, and especially now in this Covid crisis, co-financing and financing of equipment, supplying facilities, tests, all of this is being solved through county and headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21365	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21366	Thank you for your comment. Here I actually have to tell you that in Međimurje County not only in the welfare system, but also in the health system of the county is doing its part, its job. So, both around these superstandards, and about getting enough tests that, of course, there's never enough because we're constantly pointing out that there's too little testing, from the funding of equipment, there's also equipment for hospitals, and for homes for older and powerless. But that's still not enough, and there's also a problem of private homes that are not under the state system and directly under the county, but here's how they manage. However, it is still not enough, and employees and users suffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21367	And now the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21368	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maric, you also mentioned in your presentation the rulebook that is being made. But what's going through this debate is kind of pulling a thread between form and content, so the rulebook is going to be a form. It will define in a different way or something will reduce the number of people. But we're not going to solve that problem, the content problem. I'm sure we all want the people in the old and powerless homes to get the best possible care. The best possible care can be provided by those who are employees, and we now see that it is a system that actually shoots at seams and we do not have enough employees. So if you regulate and reduce the number of people on one side of the rulebook, you won't solve the problem. Problem, you'll solve the form, but you won't solve the content. The content is, indeed, to enable people who are third or fourth regardless of the age of life to get as much care as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21369	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21370	I completely agree with you. As an employee of the health system in which they are recruited as patients from social care homes, I know very well what the consequences are that homes on the one hand are overcrowded in relation to the staff who care for them. On the other hand, given the comorbidities, we also talked about disability problems, decubitus, etc. There aren't enough staff to take care of them. That rule is really in the public debate. I looked at him not in detail, but of course I will devote myself to him and probably the mass of experts who here work directly in social care. And I agree that the problem is very much. That rulebook of course won't solve everything. So what my colleague Posavec Krivec was saying, so the whole social care law really needs to be done, arranged and improved, and we wait, and that is where we will be believed and all actively involved in improving the situation and in the welfare system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21371	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Barbara Antolic Vupra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21372	Honorable MPs and MPs. So, I come from Varazdin County, specifically from the welfare system. So I know very well how hard it is to work and how hard it is actually to be available all the time to those for whom we are gathered here today in this debate. But first of all, with this law that technically regulates the question of employees within social care, there is not enough room for a wider regulation or wider regulation of a system where there is indeed a lot of problems and systems now more than ever from the social side of the health system. Thus, by extending life’s age, this fact itself requires more health care. So he collects the service we should have in a difficult state anyway. Of course, the total service is collected not only for one, but for the other. I'm saying it doesn't matter what the title of ownership is, whether it's private or it's public, whether it's county or state. So, for the user himself, it has to be and should be irrelevant. Therefore, this service must be identical to what is suggested in the name as well. And now I come up with this other name problem. So you know Europe itself has been driving us for a long time, and we should drive ourselves into this out of institutional concern where there is a mass of problems, and in an out-of-institutional concern, I mean, above all, family homes and foster homes, so family homes are not institutions, it's beyond institutional care, and they're not institutions, it's often a hindrance. Family homes were both created and their intention was to take people out of the way of caring institutions, to be in a family environment, to be in such a way as to provide that care. Varazdin County is one of the strongest holders of foster care, where people took care of their elders with some traditional values in their lives and thus accepted those of their neighbors and those of other relatives for care, both of the elderly and children. The upgrades were family homes that allowed then and more people in their homes. And now I'm going back to what we're here for today, and that's the law that regulates that working relationship for people who work inside. So, by redistributing people into out-of-institutional care, as counterpart Maric apostrophysed, there will be trouble eating. Here we have the part where it would be worth thinking about better valorizing the work of these homes, and yet here we come to money where we know that the agreed amounts are insufficient or cover half the quality care for, for older and powerless, and for other categories of users that cover. So if you put in a home for the elderly and powerless for 2,000 kuna, for 2,500, which exists, that doesn't mean that the cost of costing that home is so much. The cost of the cost is as real as the economic price, and there I am particularly pleased and glad that it is in preparation, as you have announced, to finally reach that price which is the cost of the cost, so the economic price of the accommodation according to different types of care for the users. We have to do this to then regulate the work on, working on, working on, within these different forms of care of the elderly and the powerless. I'd like to thank you again, so all the employees in the welfare system always stay away, always in the shadows of those illegal homes, those illegal openers who simply break this law, and they should be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21373	Thank you very much. We have, uh... A little, a little late for this one, there'll be a chance for later. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Now will be the next individual debate by the respected representative, Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21374	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, in this individual debate, I don't want to talk about the law anymore. We've mostly told him what his purpose is and his intention is. She might just want to apostrophe and give her answers, too, her opinions on some details of previous club discussions, which I couldn't, of course, replicate. In fact, there was one thesis related to the supervision of a number of private homes, of a number of family homes, certainly I also think that professional supervision and any form of supervision and those we consider to be the founders of the state or unit of the local so-called. County. However, I will not agree that responsibility is only on the inspectors, but that responsibility, they have their own obligation, but that responsibility is on those who deal with illegal and criminal and criminal affairs. Could the inspector know, and let's say the house he burned was illegal, could he know if there was something illegal in his or any of the ministry's records, which was secretly done, which is with the intention of making systematic abuse of users, and in the worst way, should be the responsibility of inspectors? We all know who the inspectors were, we know who the social worker was, we know who the minister was at the time, but no one called the owner or the person who was involved in such an abuse, so I can say free theft, or who caused such a tragedy because of his grave negligence. So I think more with this responsibility, which is for political reasons only centralized at the top of the government, because that's why we're creating an alibi for all those who are willing and capable of such criminal activities. What you might say is, I'm not happy to hear that the users are now locked up in institutions because of the covids. They are not closed, they are simply now to reduce contact protected, have the right and possibility of walking within the space within their gardens. The vast majority of homes are like that. If that's what they say not to protect the users, if that's so bad in our institutions, I don't know how we have a terrible pressure and an inflow to accommodation right in our institutions, in our social institutions. So that's where I think we should be just as small and more objective. In that short time, during the summer period when visits were allowed and when user exits were allowed you will not believe, I know reliably that just leaving the user, I will not say now where, brought the coronary virus to the facility. So it's not because they're kind of psychologically and psychologically isolated, it's a protection that makes us think it won't last long. And the next thing I know, and it's probably going to be more of an opportunity in the next debate, which was financially taken into account in the welfare system, and it's been said that nothing has been done at this time, I'm not going to say from which MPs. Of course it's not true. All fees are paid during the last government, and all the benefits have been raised, fees that are not in previous governments by 9, at least 10 years. And I'm just going to count now that the aid and care allowance is 47 million more, a disability of 97 million, one-time compensation for these situations where the citizens are 12 million, the parent status of 45 million and a lot more. Time won't let me. And the fact that she takes care of employees best says that in 2018 we just increased the salary of employees in the social care system because on average of all public services were 30% paid under all these other employees. So how did the former governments take care of employees in the welfare system? And their salary has been increased on average for professional workers 14% and for others on average 19%. And clearly it's also working on a systematic increase in the number of personnel.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21375	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Rada Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21376	Here's my thanks, Vice President. Dear MPs, here we are in the difficult times of the crown crisis, and it is clear that in this time the hardest of people who are weak and powerless. Here, first of all, I think of homes for the elderly and the powerless. I would like to thank this occasion all the people who work in homes, who provide services to our old and powerless, because actually if it wasn't for them, we wouldn't be sitting here either. As your former minister, and here I am asking myself a question. What can we do to get some equipment in these times so that we can visit our loved ones for at least a short while? I know that this time is now extremely sensitive, that people are used to their families, and now there is a period that simply can't get to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21377	Thank you. Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21378	Thank you very much. You know how doctors approach sick patients, they're visors and complete suitors and equipment. Is there a possibility that in some institutions it will be organized if God forbids this becomes a long-term thing, and it will be accessible to such an organization. But so far, I have no idea it's possible. However, we know that the coronary virus is being penetrated and squeezed even where health care professionals are being educated and served j if they are well equipped and I think we will best protect them for the time being to comply with all these measures primarily for the protection of the most sensitive population.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21379	The next replica is the respected advocates of Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21380	Dear MPs, there's been a lot of talk here today about surveillance, surveillance of illegal homes. But what about the surveillance of all the other homes? Since the beginning of the pandemic, state and county homes have received instructions, and certain assistance, and protective equipment, etc. All private, family homes have not received instructions, nor any suggestion of how to rule the pandemic. They watched themselves carry out the measures, they will - they will not, with course not, often both the users and the families. Since it has been found that many of these private homes have failed to implement epidemiological protection measures, we have asked the ministry several times to send an inspection. However, the ministry said there is no capacity and resources to do so. We, as a county, did it ourselves, sent inspectorates not with the goal of punishing them, but to educate them to help people what to do and how to do. However, that is not the solution. So these are the measures we've introduced. A lot of counties aren't. It would be good to create a system in which in such situations, this pandemic is still going on, to help these homes have clearer instructions on how to act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21381	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21382	Thank you very much, both your MPs and your vice president for your words. Namely, what is the rule and practice that all private homeowners turn to the civil protection headquarters for contact purposes, do the instruction and also do the equipment. I think they took full responsibility for the user and care and care for them also applies during the regular conditions and certainly during the Covid crisis. What I know for sure is that right in the first half, teams that were also instructive to family homes and private homes were visiting. They were composed of representatives from the MUP and from civil protection and social care representatives for these educations. That's what I know for sure, and also from the area where I come from, care is about headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21383	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21384	Dear colleagues, I would refer to that sentence you said the users were not closed and should be objective. I'll tell you the objective things now. I repeat again that I am a doctor, that many patients who live in homes that are very vital, who called me on the phone, their families, sent me e-mails, asked me to do something, because people who are vitally used to going for walks, going to the hairdresser, to the bank, etc. to go to a doctor's appointment and it couldn't have been done. In the eighth month, I made an initiative towards our local headquarters. We also held a meeting with representatives of course of the county and homes where we agreed to apply, of course and according to where we agreed to apply, of course and according to the national headquarters, to adapt measures for our homes in that situation when we were practically the crown free county. And that's the only way we've managed to find out that here at least made a little more visits possible. And the fence around it, so there were problems. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21385	The answer of the respected representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21386	Well, of course they are. I don't know how you think to protect users from contact if they would walk all their own, willingly all over town? As far as going to see a doctor, it continues to be accompanied by a nurse or nurse and certainly checkups and specialist examinations for users in the system have not stopped and also the general physician comes to the institutions. So this concern is certainly working and functioning and walking and recreation inside the park. I think it's a very sensitive group, I think it's precisely at the 8th month, the 7th month when the exits outside the home were open and the start of the crown's entry into the institutions. If you think it can be arranged differently that they can be free around the city, walk without being picked up by the virus, I'd like you as a health care worker to work it out here and tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21387	The next replica of the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21388	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I will look back on that part of your presentation that you spoke about investing in people in the welfare system and agree with you, people are a crucial factor in each system, and especially in a particularly sensitive social care system. And I'm just gonna remind you, even though you said part of it, and I'm gonna make you more aware that it's just in June 2018. the pay coefficient for employees in the social care system has been raised by 14% and 19%, respectively, and that, if compared, therefore, the wage growth ratio in 2016, 2020. Then we can say that the average net salary of all employees in the social care system in January 2016 was 4,769 kuna and in March 2020. 6669 kuna. I need to stress this and repeat it precisely for the Croatian public to be aware of all that what the Croatian government did in its previous term in this system. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21389	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21390	Thank you. Yes, that's right, there was a calculation that 30% lag behind, then there was a reason that the qualification structure of our employees is therefore far lower than in other systems of health and science, which we certainly accept. However, when comparisons were made for the same qualification, for the same calling and preparation needed and for the same or similar job then there was a lag and the government in the past brought this respect to this system beyond the regular increase that all public, public and public officials achieved in agreements with trade unions, and made this extremely consistent, with this increase in salaries and our social workers above all, and then other employees in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21391	Thank you. Next replicas of the respected MP Rada Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21392	Good day to you. I'd like to ask you since your coalition partner is. The partner of Mrs. Devereaux. Martinovic said in the morning statistics that she did not know, she is not sure about the number of private homes for older and powerless persons. I hope you know that number because here on the one hand today we are talking about centralization of the system, so how are we going to distribute health employees or those who care about social care, and on the other hand, how we talk about decentralisation about what local and regional administration and self-government are doing. My question is, can we really have data on how many private homes there are and can it happen at all, for example? We have a home for seniors on Domany Street in the sky, they have one m2 in front of the entrance, and right of them is a big, big consumm store and at this time of self-insulation, of course they can't go out, But even when they're healthy, they can't get into some normal space? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21393	Dear representative Murganic will give the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21394	Here, thank you very much. As far as this transparent home is concerned, I think we've been dealing with family homes somewhere around 400 and something else together, right, my colleagues will know better about the latest data. Is it possible that we have illegal homes, we have unfortunately in the practice of data and knowledge that there are and whether these homes have adequate conditions for opening those services, accommodation services. What she would recall again, therefore, the work permit and consent are given by the counties, their bodies and commissions, and must comply with the Regulation prescribed by the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21395	Next replica of the respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21396	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Murganic, you said that some MPs here at HS are trying to say that home users are closed for older and powerless persons. You're saying they're not. I repeat that they are. These are persons who are locked in their four walls, who wake up without television, who are looking at one point, who are served in their room, who are not allowed to go to the hallway, who do not have day-to-day gatherings. They're people who are trapped, they're people who are older and older and whose only purpose is socializing and caring for their loved ones, they're alienated by those loved ones, they're disabled. We have sought and asked again to enable such people to contact their families. And as your colleague told you this morning, if the minimum rule is approved to store nightware in your homes, then there must be a room in which you can also see your family with safe conditions and with plexiglas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21397	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21398	Thank you very much. I did not say they were not closed, but they are now under special measures according to the recommendations of the epidemiologist and that is something we all know and that is why they are thus protected. Any institution that is larger certainly can and has a place in which visitors are allowed. The problem is difficult to move and completely immobilized users who live exclusively in their rooms. For now, visits by epidemiologists and according to instructions from the ministry are not allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21399	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21400	Honorable MPs, just to correct you into two things. The first thing is that the house that burned down wasn't actually illegal, the illegal was just an object where the users of that home were located, so we're talking about a fire in Zagorje, that object was illegal, but the home itself was not illegal. Therefore, inspection services could determine that there was something illegal there. Secondly, you told your colleague or your reply to her replica was that you could walk around the street patients if they were sure she wouldn't get infected. She didn't say that, she said that today these protégés need help because they have mental disorders, not that they can walk freely. Secondly, another question, are you aware that the standards prescribed by the Ministry of Family Homes are extremely high and the fees are very small and very few homes can be opened according to these standards. County services don't approve of the opening of these homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21401	Thank you very much. Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21402	Thank you very much. You asked me a lot of things. I didn't understand much about the mask. I don't know what you're trying to tell me. It's an illegal facility. Yeah, it's an illegal facility, so that's where people burned down, so that's it. Second, am I aware... What am I aware of, yeah... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] that the standards are high, so now we want our users to have standards or we don't, now we should decide. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think they deserve it and now it was in this debate that all users should have equal standards no matter where they are located and who the founder is and who funded the work in those institutions. I think we should be guided when we set standards for the needs of our users, not the possibilities of those who open the facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21403	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21404	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Representative Murganic. You really have one great experience in the system and the way the system when it comes to homes for old and powerless functioning. And I would refer to that part of your debate where you talked about illegal homes. So they can be located in illegal facilities which is one topic, but the other topic is that they do not have adequate work permits or appropriate documentation or have a license for a smaller number of people who are in place and have more. So, neither is Croatia Australia, nor is it that I refer to Carlovac from where you come from or Bjelovar from which I come from New York, so I'm sure you know in the system and you can find out how many of these illegal homes are. None of us would like our old and powerless to be placed there or to be, so there's something to be done and there's certainly a suggestion on how to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21405	Thank you. We have an answer, the esteemed representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21406	Thank you. Honorable MPs. It's been done and done, and now we're gonna get to this unfortunate punishment that he's definitely gonna jump on his feet to. And what can I tell you when our inspector determines an irregularity, when our inspector issues a no-work solution, is sent to the competent services and happens to pay any punishment or no punishment still unfortunately illegal, because no further clear consent from the county or the competent ministry is allowed to continue to work. I would invite citizens to set up their parents that in this direction we may all now have negative and unfortunate experiences to look a little bit and look for advice because I repeat, with so many inspectors it's hard to get to people who are capable of bending the rules, but this is also about the severe abuse of the most insignificant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21407	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the next individual debate, and it's going to be a respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21408	Thank you. My people, especially you who work in the home health system, you protégés who can't today I'm sorry, folks at home for the elderly and the powerless, so we can talk about home health is all connected, the protégés we treat as if we're never going to get old and none of our people from the house will end up here. [[Intruder Reiner: Homes of health are something else.]] In this debate, I find it unclear that the former minister has no answer, which was recently Ms. Murganic, has no answer at all how many private homes there are for the elderly and the powerless. The system doesn't work, the illegal market obviously works best, and I would talk mainly about those who work in the home system for the elderly and the powerless. We gave it here and proposed a covid supplement to these people is the hardest thing for them. We had in Croatia and education i.e. The whole series of requalifications for care providers, which are numerous of them, is the state's money invested, the state's money has invested that women are mainly requalifying themselves for nurses and many have gone out or are not working. Now that I'm talking about this centralization law, I don't know if the only program I know and the most numerous was the nurse. I don't know how much everyone from the Employment Service is involved, if there's any plan for these women to get involved now in the whole system that's obviously ahead of the crash or already in the crash, and especially since here's a colleague Reiner taking on the laps often so he says it's not about home health, of course it's not about home health, but the whole health care system so we need to get an add-on to the root of the crisis. I am sorry that you and those who oppose each other often recently Reformists and you colleagues and colleagues from the majority did not support a covid supplement for all those people who are on the first line of defense as you like to emphasize, the covid supplement for these people is not enabled. As for the functioning of homes for older and powerless, I said in Split is named in the Split-Dalmatia County exclusively political people at the top places, who loses seats for local elections for mayor or mayor or similar and thus cannot function. I think they're trying to be that professional people social care, all of us who are going to grow old down in traditional environments more people have the opportunity to deal with their older and powerless parents, but that's less and less possible because people have left rural areas, only the old people in two-thirds of Croatia are left. I'd say one thing in particular, we can't treat the elderly and the powerless, we can't as prisoners, and that's where we agree in the debate, we can't. We need to find models so they don't be prisoners. I'm sorry when the cattle are in cages, we have to find models, we can't just as in Split the nursing home in the sred of the city on all four sides is the road of the densest, densely populated mist, and in the hinterland of Dalmatia, here I said of my Sinj, Drniš, Imotski or other parts where the state could sell this facility of Split-Dalmatia County could make three homes older and powerless with higher capacities and better living conditions for the elderly and powerless. Well, we can't keep people in a cage where they can't be seen by their favorites. I don't know if they have television. They probably don't. Every photograph comes out of these homes. People don't smile in their old age as prisoners regardless, we need to find the opportunity to see their loved ones through certain protections all to respect. I know they're threatened, I know it's not easy, but I can't be prisoners. All we have to do is make these people of old at this difficult time at least see The loved ones and through the most difficult measures. [[- Intruder Rainer. Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21409	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21410	Dear colleague Bulj, I agree with you that the system is abandoned, non-transparent, that it is not a social care system, that it is not upgraded, that it is not in line with European trends regulated for years and that there are no clear rules of the game. I suggest that the ministry draw up a kind of home, draw up who's responsible for what it can't be, there can be no one other than the ministry responsible for supervision and standards. And as for this second part of your discussion, as far as being incarcerated in homes. Well, we can't just get the Parliament to find technical conditions that MPs can argue, so we've been talking about the MPs speaking individually here from this pay phone. Is it okay? It's good. Such technical opportunities can be found in any home, the state must help that people are not imprisoned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21411	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21412	Our protégés in the homes of the elderly and the powerless must not be held captive, and they are currently imprisoned, whether I confess or not. We can't treat humans in a pandemic, especially the helpless, like cattle. We must find solutions as we have found in Parliament a solution that I am now speaking in the House from this pay phone in this way where there are more than 25 people and no one is represented by any problem, so we must find for our elderly and powerless. We can't just write them off, so they're living things, they're somebody's parents, they're part of us. And that's why I call on the Ministry to finally edit a system that doesn't work first and when it's abandoned, and mainly to allow the decent lives of our protégés in homes for the elderly and the powerless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21413	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21414	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is how much time I have allowed these five minutes at my disposal, first of all, I would like to express my support for all employees in the social care system, both in the homes of the service providers for older and powerless and all other homes, as well as in social care centres, and so to all those who are employed by the different service providers of the entire service provider in the welfare system that we haven't talked about today. I have an internship and experience at the Minister of Resort's place for exactly a year. My first move in that year when I came was to go to the field and visit institutions in the welfare system. I went to the county, I got right to half, I went to 12 Croatian counties, then the Covid-19 epidemic came, and I still couldn't do it anymore. Why did I do that? Because you understand the system of social care and understand huge problems in the system that didn't arise yesterday but have arisen for years, assumes to go amongst people, see the system, get to know the system, face problems with open eyes, eyes. And therefore, from this stage, my deep affection and deep respect for all the people who work in the welfare system and I will never allow anyone to raise their voice, to accuse or to say anything inappropriate when it comes to employees in the social care system, whether it's social workers, whether it's about nurses in the system, whether it's about carers, technical staff, directors and all those who work in the system. The problem of adopting this law is already explained, I will not say much about it, I will just say that in the context of this, therefore, the epidemic is actually creating a legislative framework that will enable us to organise work effectively in the conditions in which we are all meeting, and that primarily refers to the possibility of mobilising workers, requisitioning equipment and transporting funds, the temporary use of business and other facilities for providing social services in the social care system and everything that we have already talked about today. Of course, the existing Law on Social Care does not regulate this organisation, it is necessary to amend it, I hold that this issue cannot be solved by the Regulation but must be resolved by law because this application of the Labour Act as a general regulation which regulates working relationships and cannot be organised by working in social care institutions and by providers, by the providers with whom the Ministry has concluded a contract on the provision of services and for this reason we have actually one legal void which we are going to solve here by amending this law and creating a legal framework for all of what it is necessary to do in order to respond to all the challenges created under the conditions of this epidemic. What I need to stress, I have too little time, and I will only remind myself that the necessary measures of the organisation of work in social care institutions were introduced in the first wave of the 25.3 epidemic and after that was issued in cooperation with the ministry and institutions a whole series of recommendations in accordance with the epidemiological situation, from the ban on visits to this recommendation on different types of work organisation, teams that change every 14 days, working isolation as something, which, I keep saying, resulted in a result, and thus demonstrated the flexibility of the system. And I'm just going to visit that work isolation in, in, so far as the form of work has been introduced into 42 homes which are the founder of the RH or JLS, 31 homes of other founders and over 100 family homes. Why am I saying that? I agree with colleagues and colleagues who have said that the crown has shown how vulnerable the system and social care and health care is and how difficult it is to endure. But I also claim that this situation is the first, so now the second wave has shown the same as the good system, well organized regardless of how tough the system is. Of course, there are good and bad examples we've talked about so far. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21415	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to ask a respected representative to go to the scene anyway, and we're going to, given that it's one hour, we're going to go to the point of view and then we're going to go back to replicas and further individual Ha look, if you all agree I don't mind just saying that, just so one of the MPs doesn't say he didn't know the weather, etc. [[You don't understand the attacks on the bench.]] Me, I hereby knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure with your blessing. ... Okay, well, okay, this one. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Okay, let's go, then let's do the replicas, the first is the respected representative of Simičević. [[Intruder: Here, I will not raise the injury of the Rules of Procedure an honorable word]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21416	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, these are only technical changes that can result in quality. What I would like to appeal here as a former minister and here to the representatives of the ministry is it possible in this crown crisis to allow homes for older and powerless employment of new employees? Why am I saying that? Because really these people are now in a certain psychological state where they would actually have a better living word than the food they get, so can you, as a former minister, try to do something about it with your authority? And here I would also like to point out very clearly that the system is not in collapse and crisis, even as much as my experience with the home for the elderly and the powerless in Zadar on Sphinx is excellent and I commend all the people of the directors and all the employees and I want this time to pass as soon as possible. Thank you very much. .
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21417	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21418	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for this question, and I'll start at the end. As far as the system is concerned, the system is tough, it's burdened with problems, but it's tough. I personally visited the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Zadar in the first wave, before the first wave, sharing your opinion and warm greetings to all, to all employees. As for the employment of the ministry and neatly gives consent to all employment as a replacement, so replacements either for birth or for, so it goes spotless and it's settled and it's done. As for new employment, I will tell you the figures during the time I was, therefore, and I believe that this, this, that, therefore, this dynamic continues in accordance with, of course, the possibilities that are presently available. 103 consent for new employment in social care centres, 106 consent for new employment of professional associates indefinitely in social care homes. But let's not forget The homes of social care are not only homes for the elderly but also children's homes. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21419	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Begonja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21420	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Bedekovic, as regards the capacity of homes for old and powerless, have long been filled, demand is multiple. 2011 We have 1820 persons older than 75 years in the area of the doctoral end of the list. in more than 60 settlements, it's mostly single families. The town of Drnis has an interest in building homes for the old and powerless and in this sense has resolved property-legal issues for the land, municipally equipped it, into spatial planning documentation included it, and project technical documentation has been commissioned. Do you think there is a need to build new accommodation facilities in Croatia and yet another thing, so far it could not be co-financed by EU funds, we have a new financial perspective before us, so please comment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21421	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21422	Thank you very much, dear colleague, this is a very important question and the fact is that we have a lack of capacity, and I absolutely agree with that problem at the time I was a minister, and I believe my predecessor before me. In view of this problem, and the fact that money from European funds could not be financed by the building of homes in an infrastructure sense, this problem has also been very serious in the government's programme for the next term, but this, which began the period of office, literally says that in the synergy of the state, municipalities, cities and counties, the accommodation capacity for older and powerless persons in the institutional sense, so building homes for older and powerless ones, therefore, is the position of at least one home for older and powerless ones in the county to increase capacity. But also let us not forget that it is important for the old and powerless who want to stay in their homes to enable outside the institutional service means to ensure a level playing field [[Intruder: Thank you]] service and those who want to stay home. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21423	The next replicas of the esteemed representative, Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21424	Your Honor, ma'am. Bedekovic said exactly how there is a wide range of different, of course providers and services, so I would like to point out here that it is extremely important and important that providers of social services and associations, associations that have different daily programmes, are particularly concerned that older people and with disability or insurance, I don't know, accommodation for them. But the question is that they certainly don't have enough financial resources, and in the situation now that we have the crown, maybe exactly that frame that exists, and they can't run programs, programs that would work, say, these daily programs, is there any possibility of a good synergy right where we're missing the personnel in what's institutional concern, so I think maybe we should think about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21425	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21426	So, as regards associations, of course, the associations providing services in the welfare system are very helpful, so the system in general and that ministry participates in the financing of their work, both through one-year programmes and through three-year programmes. Last year, so I signed contracts with almost all contracts, and we tried to settle all the associations that applied for the tender for three years and 1 year programmes, of course those that had all the technical conditions met. I can't tell you exactly the total now, but here's what I can tell you later, after this one. As for use, so let's just say mobilization if that's what you meant by employees returning from associations to, to institutions and the like, it's an idea worth considering by thinking that we should do a good analysis and based on that analysis to see what the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21427	The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21428	Dear colleagues, I like your approach that you said you had as a minister because it's the only way to get to know the situation, the situation on the ground, and to diagnose all the problems so that the system that you said yourself can begin to be solved, as I said, that it's quite derelict, that it hasn't been invested for years, that it hasn't been modernised, that it hasn't followed European trends. So, what I'm trying to say at the end is that I'm taking my hat off to all the employees who have adapted either on their own initiative or on the basis of the instructions that the monster Covid-19 has not taken any more victims. However, the fact is that we have both good and bad and that we do not separate the grain from the weeds. The only thing I've noticed is that you're defending employees, and you haven't mentioned the responsibility of those who run those homes, whether for the elderly, whether for the mentally ill adults or any other person. which this facility or which institution of health, social care, pardon. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21429	The answer of the respected representative Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21430	An esteemed colleague, the responsibility of each director, and so is the director of a social care facility, is above all. I am the first to say after certain situations in some institutions if they are determined, I said first, read, see what is, my statements in the media, if any failure is determined clearly who has to answer, it is clear who has to answer. Likewise, I advocate access to determine the actual state of affairs first, determine responsibility, and then, then act, not put someone on the cross in advance. Each director is very, very clearly responsible for the situation in his institution not only in the welfare system but also in all other systems and must know that the director has his powers and has his responsibility and that he must answer for the consequences when it is proved that something has not been done properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21431	Next replica, respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21432	So, respected MP Bedekovic, as former minister, is certainly a clear review and you know, you understand the situation. My question is very specific, in which way you think you should ask and establish a clear system in all, throughout the social care system. We've opened the subject of illegal homes here today, we've opened the topic here today that we don't really know how many private homes, my question of how to establish, in the implementation of these epidemiological measures, and education and control systems at private homes, I've received the answer that privates, privates. I don't think that's a good approach. It's not our goal to protect the virus from entering state and county homes, and the privates are private. Our responsibility, should have been the responsibility of the ministry and the inspectorate to take care of the entire private system of these very homes for the elderly and the powerless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21433	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21434	Look, I personally didn't make a difference either now or when I was a minister between the private and public state sectors, but I think that one and the other sectors are excellently complemented and I've always been a proponent of giving space to one and the other under clear conditions. Under clear criteria. One of these criteria, the basic criteria is the quality criterion. Today it was said, someone asked a question about forming a methodology and making an economic price at home. The main criterion is quality. Whether it's a public matter, whether it's a state or a private home, quality. I'm still advocating that attitude. ... Standards, thank you, that's exactly what we're talking about, after all, and I've talked to you a lot as a representative here, the population of the pensioners. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As far as I'm concerned, you've asked a lot of questions about the conduct of surveillance. You must know... [[Intruder: Thank you, you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21435	Unfortunately, you won't be able to make it. Answer because the time has come and the next replica will be respected representatives Ivana Posavec Krivec. [[Here we go later, here we go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bedeković, you have made a fine approach at the very beginning of your presentation and have said how much you appreciate the work of colleagues and colleagues in the system. We all appreciate it. We've said it more than once here. I was particularly impressed by your statement that as a minister you wanted to get acquainted with the social care system, so it's wonderful, you become a minister and you get a chance to get acquainted with the system. It took you a year to visit half of Croatia, in that year you got some knowledge, and then you probably suggested to the prime minister that the Ministry of Social Care should no longer be an independent ministry, but that it was good to drown it with other systems, so a mega ministry was created, there was a little bit of confusion, some funds were lost, but you didn't put priority on users but in your work. What do we have today? A minister who probably visits Croatia to get to know the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21437	Thank you. Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21438	My fellow Members, I have put an emphasis on the users in my mandate, because constitutional social care goes first and foremost, so as to see the state and the institution in which the users function, and the users of the social care system are not only old and powerless. There are children, there are persons with intellectual and other difficulties, etc., etc. There are, not only institutions but other service providers, a system that acts in terms of deinstitutionalisation, a very, very complex system. I've devoted myself to the user because for the sake of the user, we're doing all this. For the sake of the user, we are also doing these amendments to the law. And as for the transformation of the ministry, so the welfare system, the ministry, the merger, that's not your problem. When you are in power, when you win power and when the Croatian people give you confidence, then you will be able to find out where the Ministry will be and What's it gonna be called? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21439	Thank you very much. Now we're going back to the previous point, and in an individual debate, it is now up to the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21441	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates. I don't see how many of you there are. My colleagues and colleagues. So this is one topic that actually brings a lot of attention to all of us. So at the moment when the coronary is a virus, when it is a fact that not only lives in Croatia, but in Europe and the whole world, when all eyes are on all those who maintain our health system we have another group of vulnerable, needy or abandoned to take care of and there is an extremely important system of social care. The Corona virus opened up all those problems that we normally have and only strengthened them. So, if we had problems with the welfare system it's not any news and the coronary virus has just shown it to the strongest. When we discuss things, of course, we always discuss it in a way that we talk about some bad things. We see all those homes that were partially illegally built. We see those homes that are illegal. We see those situations when something happens. But what needs to be emphasized, and should be emphasized, is that it is indeed the path that we all are going to. The way to end your life's journey in a single home is very realistic and very perceptive. Therefore, it is where we all end up and there is whether it is social or private I would not like to share them equally on social and private. There are homes that work great. There are homes where everything really works properly and should be thanked to all those employees who are equally inhuman efforts trying in these difficult times when people in the home can't get out, when you need to explain that every outing is a danger of bringing the virus into the home for all those protégés who are there, when they can't see their loved ones for months. So it's a very difficult situation and in this difficult situation we should thank all those who really take care of it and who somehow keep it under control. Of course this is an opportunity to thank all of them, but the debate on this law opens up that problem again, and that is the problem of people. We have a system and a system that takes care of social welfare that leaves a terrible number of people especially when it comes to homes. There goes a part of the people who care about health care, but also a part of all the others. Today, in my free speech, I was talking about the psychological aid that was tied up and that after 10 months, I concluded that people in health care needed it. But I am absolutely certain that psychological help is not only needed by the protégés of individual homes for the elderly and the powerless, but also by the people who work with them. These people are doing superhuman efforts. One of my friends to say so or a friend because not only is the owner of a private home that is relatively large and that is always according to some indicators at the top, he says when I talk to him that it is very difficult to get the workforce, that now that the workforce is working in that 10 by 10 days, that these are young people who don't see their family, that it took a lot of time to explain to the families of the protégés that I can't come to the home that these conditions are special conditions and we need to keep this in mind and we need to take care of everything. Not to say that it's also the cost of these coronary viruses that are much higher now and in homes than it was before. You must provide for employees not only masks, but individual suits. The same is true for you when any of the wards from the home go into the health system and when they go back, you have to put them in self-insulation for 2 weeks because you never know what they will bring or possibly what they can bring. So when the debate is about a law like this, then that debate opens up and we talk about problems. It is also important to talk about the fact that people are actually doing superhuman efforts. But it can't all be on people. We need to create forms and frameworks that they can really do their work and forms and frameworks that should not be a bauk going home, but it should be a quality way of life and functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21442	Thank you very much. We should now re-establish our relationship with counterpart Martina Vlasic Iljkic. Can we? I have no idea it's a very successful solution. Is it? Do I hear from you? ... Nothing. [[Invadica Vlasic Iljkić: The speaker is not heard.]] Nothing without fellow Pavic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21443	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. The intensities of this Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Social Care Act are to regulate the legal gap relating to the organisation of work, the mobilisation of professionals and other workers, the requisition of equipment and means of transport, the temporary use of business and other premises for the provision of social services to social services of social care institutions. Surely these provisions will also provide the employer's legal certainty in decision-making because so far it has been directed towards social care institutions at the level of recommendations and institutions have organised jobs in different ways depending on the periods of the pandemic. What was largely represented was working in groups of workers with the intensities that groups had no contact with each other. The introduction of work isolation and work in a way that 10 days a worker stays in a facility in some cases may be a solution, but I do not think it will be applicable in practice. I believe it is difficult to organise a system when decisions by headquarters are incomprehensible and illogical without projections of equal application. Also a personal example of the director and adherence to the measures is the backbone of the behaviour of workers. Another problem is that workers need to have conditions for staying and rest in welfare institutions, which are already re-scheduled by users and there are no additional rooms for staying workers. The situation in certain homes is poor with a large number of infected users, including self-insulation workers. It is not clear where workers will be redistributed when all institutions are in equal trouble and do not have a sufficient number of professionals and other workers. Practice has shown that, of course, a better situation in homes and social care institutions is where the head of the institution is a professional person who can deal with all the challenges. It is also an unequal practice in social care centres and it would be good for all workers to have equal conditions and organisation of work. In the health system, the social care system is the most hit by this crisis and the carers, professional workers work daily in suspense and care for others. This addition of the law does not resolve the fact that the welfare system has been neglected both outside of public focus and interests, and in part because of the accession of the Ministry of Labour and Pension Insurance when social policy has become a step-by-step activity, not the one concerning the lives of a large number of citizens. What has also been lost from focus is a user perspective. In all that organization and epidemiological measures that are systematically... No psychological assistance has been provided to users in their homes or has not been sufficiently provided. [[You don't understand.]] It is not to be expected that users now have sufficient support and assistance when it has not been provided to a sufficient extent nor before the pandemic due to insufficient number of professional workers. All of these are long-standing problems that are getting bigger during the crisis. The connection between the social care system is highly linked to the health system, and if the social care system was already planned as the nature of the connection, it was the Ministry of Health. When we talk about measures from a user's perspective, it is different how they wear old and powerless who are aware of the dangers of coronal infection, fear for their life and may be easier to pass separation, while they are certainly trying to withstand the separation of mentally and intellectually damaged persons, children with developmental difficulties and other people with disabilities. We must not forget past events in which we have suffered older people in homes with fatal outcomes for two years in a row and that nothing happens after such situations. The competent ministry has ordered reconnaissance and control of the facilities, which is insufficient because such post-accident approach has not led to improved concern. The main prevention is if the competent institutions react on time. In any disputed case, the suffering of certain elderly people is learned that there have been earlier reports that have not been adequately handled. It is incomprehensible that after a brutal violation of human rights, such homes continue to work uninterruptedly. We also appeal for a faster response from children or abstentions because each application should be taken seriously and asked thoroughly to protect the elderly. In practice, unfortunately, we have increasingly inadequate concerns for older people to the level of neglect or abuse in institutions that are designed to provide accommodation and care. What is even more tragic is that in controversial homes where the cost of accommodation was between 5 and 7,000 kuna, and users were starving according to some media reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21444	Thank you, thank you very much, and thank you again to colleagues Pavic for his technical assistance, this one and now the next debate will be a respected representative of Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21445	Thank you very much, Vice President. All of you here, of course, I welcome the MPs and the MPs, and let me say something from my personal experience in these few minutes. I was the head of the Civil Protection Staff of Osijek-Baranja County at this time when we faced the crown crisis and we immediately took a stand and said that of course health care personnel was in the first place, the second line of defense we want were just homes for older and powerless both those in state and county property, but so did those small homes that we have in our places of Osijek-Baranja County and we all equally equipped them when it comes to protective equipment, we didn't have a criterion for our homes one, the other, and I think it's very important. We found ourselves in a time we weren't ready for, that we weren't prepared for, that we weren't prepared for. After all, part of this debate that was being held here is on that very trail. Our homes aren't prepared to have what we faced when there was a crown crisis. There was a lot of talk about this, about this psychological drama that the protégés had. We took special care of it and sought a way to get these people trapped in homes out. In some homes this possibility existed where we have large courtyards, where we can simply take these people out. But in these small family homes, it was simply impossible and what had just happened to a few MPs here and said that when they came out they had come back with the coronary virus and then there was a big problem. What perhaps no one has touched in these discussions is one important thing. We have a lot of private homes, and you heard from the State Secretary's report that the largest number of deaths were in those small homes. So what happens now? You have a home where there were 20 protégés and he was relatively profitable in that sense, but of 20 protégés 10 died. This home with 10 protégés simply has no way of continuing to work, it cannot accept new or cannot foster even though it has needs because these corona conditions last. And here we have a problem. And what I want to particularly apostrophe towards the ministry is that there must be a way for these people, or these owners, to talk about homeowners, not those who are fostering people at their homes, to find a way to help them these few months until the crown crisis is a condition for them, how to help them, and how to overcome this difficult situation. What surprised me as the man who was in that system was that for the first time we were introduced to how many such institutions in the area, say, specifically the Osijek-Baranja County, in what conditions the individual institutions are doing, and that is what I think is the task and the county and of course the local authorities. What made me particularly angry as a man who's been around for his whole life is somewhere in the local self-government that when the disease occurred in a small village, even the mayor of the municipality didn't want to call homeowner to ask her what it was like, not if he might be able to help anything, but if they were 100 meters away to get infected by accident. That can't happen. There lies someone's mother, grandmother, grandfather, father, and that's something that must be of absolute concern to politics before, above all, and no one should have an excuse to find a way to help that subject that works in the space of his local self-government. Of course, the coronary crisis has opened up many of the shortcomings that we have in the system, and that may be what people say, every evil is for some good, to finally realize that we are going to put in a legal framework, under which conditions those people who receive someone's father, mother, sister, brother, that they have everything they should have when it comes to providing this service. And finally, of course, I want to thank all the people who work in the field of social care in these conditions that are very difficult, and we know what we've been talking about since the 3rd month, so here we are so far. I want to congratulate and be supportive of all those who have these problems that I've been talking about and who, together with us, can overcome this crisis, can recover because the need to be in a home is, of course, more and more, and simply if we don't find an adequate solution, I'm afraid we won't achieve success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21446	Stay here for a moment. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Stipan Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21447	Dear Mr. Ivanovic, as a former mayor, you are certainly familiar with all of this, all the measures and activities that the former Government of Andrej Plenkovic has done, as well as those that are currently taking care of the elderly. When I say that, I mean not only through homes for older people, but also through different projects. First of all, it would highlight the project Zažela, which included a very large number of older people, care for older people, mainly in rural areas. In rural areas where older people often do not want to go to these homes but simply want to stay in their home as often as possible. And it really was a real hit, a real project. And in this way, here it continues in these municipalities of ours, and we would love to have it, that he spends as long as possible to really be on an adequate level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21448	Dear Representative Shaslin, here you go. Excuse me. Here you go, Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21449	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Shaslin, yes, we who come from a space that has more rural areas than perhaps some other units of local self-government, the project Wish is certainly something that has shown its purpose, its legitimate existence, and that is something to insist on that project never stopping. It is something that provides that minimal help to people who, who do not visit their children, their relatives and then, in those hours or two, still have someone to share a nice word with, I have someone to arrange a home for them, and it is just those people who don't want to go anywhere to the last, but here they want to spend those, and the last days of their lives. So I think it's a commendable project and should continue with it as long as it's in general I would say infinitely.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21450	The next replica is the respected representative Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21451	My dear colleague, you mentioned the Osijek-Baranja County, I would like to commend how it equitably encourages institutions and outside the institutional service. Namely, the Osijek-Baranja County has refurbished two homes through institutional services through energy recovery for older and powerless ones. In Osijek, investment worth 12 million kunas and in the Beli Manastir is an investment of 6 million kuna. As Representative Shaslin said through the outside of the institutional service, we have the project Zaželi and the holder of Osijek-Baranja County where 16 women were employed in a home in Osijek and 30 women in a home in Bela Manastir who care for older people in a home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21452	The answer of the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21453	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Radic, that's right. Someone here spoke well and said that these people really need all the conditions for what they pay to have the best service. Of course, energy recovery is certainly what significantly improves the standard of living in these areas, but it also significantly reduces the costs of both the state and the county when it comes to maintaining such homes. What should particularly be apostrophe in these discussions, and I am glad that this debate has been extended in this way because this is a problem that we will have sooner or later, we will absolutely all face this problem. Therefore, this cannot be just a problem for us to put everything in the country, the problem must be driven by both local and regional, and of course end with one law that will be regulated at the state level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21454	The next replica of the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21455	Thank you very much. Dear fellow I will refer to the part of your presentation in which you spoke about family homes and the current situation in the area of Osijek-Baranja County. I would like to remind you that family homes form an important part of the system of providing services to social care users, especially when it comes to older and powerless persons, and in a part outside of institution accommodation, so these are not classical homes of the institution, but they provide extra-institutional accommodation for up to 20 people, and the basic purpose is that of which you place the emphasis, provide a family environment for older and powerless persons and the warmth of the home. Of course, we have good examples and bad examples in practice. One of the bad examples of them today was that of home in Zagorje and other homes mentioned today, however, of course such situations should be resolved after the fire in Zagorje myself I changed the rule where I changed the criteria, but certainly in that [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Quality homes need help. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21456	The answer of the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21457	Thank you very much. Of course, you, as former minister, were best acquainted with these things, but Mrs. Vesna well touched one issue when it came to these outside institutional issues. This is one of the big problems, and it should not be ignored because one good part of space and capacity is precisely in those institutions where we are honest then what happened and what individual representatives have apostrophyd, that man has 5 beds, and there are 20 people in extremely difficult conditions to just take their property or take their pension. This is not good and of that you should not naturally stick your head in the sand, this problem absolutely needs to be solved because it is more and more, and the problems mainly come from such.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21458	The next replica is the esteemed representative Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21459	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative and Head of Civil Protection in Osijek-Baranja County you also took care of these outside institutional forms of concern which is really commendable and good because it somehow escapes under the work often and other headquarters. However, the fact is that you have incorrectly used the name, therefore, is not the fact that these are the opposite said by the institutions already before the former minister, so it is important that in the names we speak correctly so that those users who in the future want accommodation services are not mistaken so that the system itself does not communicate wrongly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21460	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21461	Thank you very much, you're right. Here comes Mrs. Bedekovic. I just wanted to say, in fact, that we didn't doubt at all one moment whether it was one category, one or the other, or another, but we said that we were going to help everyone equally and proportionately at the time that they were having the hardest time. Of course, these names that we're talking about are something we're not allowed to do, we can't mix because in this way we could bring everything into the same, in the same basket, and of course they're not all in the same conditions, and I absolutely agree with you, I didn't do it on purpose, but here I could just say and prove how important it is that, and yesterday we spent all day discussing the functions of the headquarters, how important it is that one civil protection headquarters take care not only of the segment of health but also of the other important social segments that exist on that regional unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21462	The next is a replica of the respected representative Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21463	Dear Representative, I am pleased to hear another explanation from the former minister who was really detailed and has brought a little closer to the problem of family homes and what is the difference between these family homes and the institution. What I appeal to you and the former ministers who are here with us, although before Mrs. Murganic answered me in one way as if I wanted to lower the criteria in an inappropriate way. That's not the point. The goal is to be realistic and to open these family homes as much as possible because there are our parents, there are our sisters, there are our brothers, to allow them to live in such an environment, that's the goal. If they set too harsh criteria, no one can benefit. Only people turn away from that job. And secondly, he would ask you as representatives and colleagues who were ministers to try to influence the state or the ministry to give more money to people who were financed by the state. You know, you get 3,500 kuna yourself, and actually, the economic price is never below 5,000 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21464	The answer of the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21465	Thank you very much, for this first part of the replica, you also mentioned Mrs. Bedeković and Mrs. Murganic, who are certainly better than me when it comes to social care issues, and with this last thing you said in the second part of the replica, I absolutely agree. To strive for a higher standard, to strive for conditions to be for all at least roughly equal to absolutely no comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21466	Thank you. We will now end up on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21467	Here, respected MPs very and very briefly I will address myself, a lot has been said about the law, and clearly in discussions about the entire system and all the problems that plague citizens but certainly employees and our users exactly as Mrs. Mrs. Mrak Taritash said we can all be users of the institution, but also we can all for any reason fall under the intervention that we can get from the welfare system. What I am particularly pleased is that in these discussions there were both useful and suggested. Certainly and certainly well-intentioned criticisms that are here I have now experienced as a summary. Clearly, we who are more involved in the system may have other information and other views, on the side of it all together may seem different. However, this whole debate was useful and constructive. I especially want to thank everyone who has remembered employees in the social care system in such a way as to express both praise and gratitude and since it is precisely the employees in the social care system who have a very, very rare opportunity to hear and believe them that this will really mean a lot. You don't really have a picture of what it means to sisters and nurses when they can say praises, especially to chefs and cooks, it's very important in our institutions that this segment of work, when it comes to family members or congratulations for holidays or thanks after their users leave, so after death and that these cards or cards or postcards always have an honorary place on the ad board where employees stop during their daily breaks, or friends. What I said in the system is not easy to do because there is an extremely needed individual approach and all the protocols and all the rules and all the rules of some times are not enough if one chemistry is not felt, one empathy between users and employees, carers, nurses, and most certainly the social worker, and that it is hard, really hard to achieve this at every time maximum because there are still people who are here on a scale of desirable professions, professions and jobs certainly in some social evaluation lowly placed. I'm afraid there will be less and less in this otherwise general shortage of employees who will be focused on these jobs. Social work students are getting less and less. It's not always, it's not always a crucial salary I can say that from our many contacts and experiences with colleagues and colleagues, it's one of the pleasures that we get in contact and working with people when we feel it's and we're returned to make up for all these material and other shortcomings that are happening in the system. I highly appreciate the importance of this system, however, that we focus on all of us, both our users and our employees, but as I said at the very end of all our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21468	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the green-left bloc, and will finally speak on behalf of the club respected representative Rada Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21469	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, it seems that the Council of the last days has been dealing with palitative or fire-fighting measures, mourning and any chance we have seen from the debate today we may have been able to talk about a new law or make a draft of a new law or it already exists and we have been waiting for it a little longer. And just as the pandemic has shown further that the welfare system, here, colleagues used a little harder adjectives to be deposed, that it is destroyed, in any case, the pandemic has shown that we have all the problems in our systems and to protect or take care of those most often called vulnerable groups today, but these are really our parents or our neighbors. Where our social responsibility is and should be seen when today's debated whether homes are illegal, legal, how many there are, what kind of surveillance is. So all of this indicates that something in the system or system hasn't been stopped. What would certainly be good to know and the fact that it could have happened to us and how many in the last 30 years we have homes that we are, newly built homes. I know how many there are in Zagreb, and it's scary, and how it could have happened to us that something that cared about those most vulnerable became something that came from the source. We're all talking and we know how big the difference is or how big someone is, you should get into one of the so-called 50-years-olds. social homes in an old age manner and wait 30 years in their turn or in our good habit to seek a relationship then for themselves or for their parents. So, as it is possible that our investments in what they would be, were financed, co-financed homes from the state and local and regional self-government. On the other hand, and then if we let homes, homes, private entrepreneurs can have homes, and then we don't know whether standards in those homes are always more expensive prices equal. I have a good experience with a private home because I didn't want to ask for privileges for my old people to be in something that would be a different home, but that might have been my lucky day. I asked, of course, those who had taken care of their parents. So we testified, and something here Mrs. Bedekovic said she wouldn't give anything against the employees, but what she certainly needs to worry about said well against the employees, but what we need to talk about is where the responsibility is when it's scheduled in the system. 18 deaths in Split may not be the fault of employees, it is the system and not the synergy between the health system and the social care system, but it is also the director's fault, but we heard from the minister that it was the virus. It can't be when it suits us to be a guilty virus or to get away with the system. Otherwise, I must commend Mr. Minister who, unlike many other ministers, sat here with us until midnight yesterday, shows that he is interested in what he has to say and opposition. Even today, I even suggested a small model of some sort. So, if you want to get back again, we talked about trust yesterday, if you want to regain citizens' trust, if you want to have social cohesion understanding of the problem then you have to understand that trust is acquired not only by good communication or bad communication, whether it's the virus, trust is being acquired here where we're looking for transparency, where we know that there are problems of supervision and inspectors in the system, etc., but trust won't come back like that, we've today cosmetically or technically made a solution, because of course we can't move people without a legal basis that we can change them from one institution to another. What we do to other institutions, have we declared a state of war that from some good institution tomorrow someone will have to go to Gospić to do their job. So, we're going to bring here some legal basis, but whether it could be passed a better law, that's, and now bring it, and not that we're going to go through a date, and we don't know what date, why it's 21st, not 22nd or 23rd.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21470	Thank you. Now finally, on behalf of the SDP Club, the respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, once again finally on behalf of the SDP Club, I will only repeat that, as I was saying at the outset, we will support this law primarily because its adoption is the only way to ensure that under these conditions, the conditions of the pandemic and the circumstances that arise, we will provide the necessary care for the persons in the welfare system. This does not mean that we do not consider that there are certain gaps, that there may also be some dilemmas by passing this law, so we immediately resorted to this clearer statement that colleagues from the left-green bloc have proposed as an amendment and we think it would be a good, good formulation. Furthermore, as I said in the introduction and will now repeat on behalf of the SDP Club, we believe that the time has come for us to discuss in the Croatian Parliament a new proposal for a social care law for several reasons. You are colleagues and colleagues in the ruling part, and you are therefore preparing this law for a long time. The most vulnerable group in this pandemic time has proved to be people who live or tend to the welfare system, which in institutions, outside institutions, they need our support, they need our care. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen systems of care not only for old and powerless people, as we spoke most today in the debate, but also for people with disabilities, for children, for young people, the whole system needs to be strengthened, proposed and given to them one additional energy that I believe, as you have announced, we can also provide EU funds. We believe that we need the synergy of local, regional and national authorities, that we need to address this layer of society with concrete proposals and with a concrete system. We would say that there are many points that we have not touched by this law, but that we must touch which must be the obligation of this joint mandate in the Croatian Parliament. So let us not allow ourselves to come to a new date of an appropriate date in which we will appropriately remember people who are in need, make sufficient progress to be proactive, see how we can engage other parts of society. Why don't we in Croatia have a system of volunteering? I'm here today, my colleagues from HDZ, personally calling me that it would be nice to volunteer in the welfare system, so you don't know how much we volunteer, where we volunteer and how we volunteer, but I'm calling for it to be good for the volunteering system to be arranged, socially arranged. That our young people, those who are educated for social structures, are obliged to volunteer and to build through such a system a society that will help, which will be solid and that will respect each other. Then we won't get to the point where at certain times we don't recognize the needs of the needy, we won't be in a situation where we don't have people who can talk to older people who are alienated in homes for older and powerless at this time of the pandemic. We'll have educated people who will be willing to volunteer at any moment because it will grow. We will not have the situation we have here in the Croatian Parliament today to vote on whether the government should bring new legal frameworks on an inclusive add-on. It's hard today for an International Day of Persons with Disabilities to say that this is exactly what this government refused to do just 10 days ago. This government has also rejected this majority in the Croatian Parliament, we have rejected our proposal, the opposition proposal and the SDP to talk about a legal solution that needs to be resolved by assistance, assistance in the everyday life of those who have a basic living condition. So, please appeal once again to you, listen to what we are saying and we on the other hand because it is not correct to say that we do not now have the right to propose and not to worry about what this government is doing but that we will worry when we take power. So if you keep this up, unfortunately, it'll be the only solution. I'm sorry to have to talk to you like that, but I wish we could have around these extremely socially important issues of some kind of consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21472	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, we will finally hear the respected representative Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21473	My people who are watching this we must make it clear here in front of the club of the Independent Lists that our old and powerless priorities are social solidarity, what every society, every man, every man above all else is bound to do. However, in the Covid crisis these people in older and powerless homes are simply left to themselves in several squares of space, mostly without televisions without their members of their families to see them. By understanding the circumstances in which we are, however, I repeat if in the assembly there must be 50 of us under protection there can also be provided protection if there is some kind of protection here so that these people can see their loved ones. We can't treat the elderly and the powerless as if they were animals, I feel sorry for the cage, that's the first thing, the second disorder of the system regarding homes for the elderly and the powerless, not the functioning of the system. It is unfortunate that a minister who has been in the past term does not know the number of private homes for the elderly and the powerless. So it's an uncontrollable, messy system. This is why not only the anomalies within the system occur but unfortunately also the great tragedies that have occurred with deaths due to non-compliance with the conditions of certain homes for the elderly and the powerless, and especially those so-called. People's words on black work. Once again, I thank all workers of health and health care in social care, mainly in homes for older and powerless and other homes that care for our most needed. We've been giving esteemed MPs here, respected secretary of state who you're on the phone right now, and all we've had today is a replacement of four state, three, four state secretaries, who neatly side in the chair, read the cell phone, read what you're listening to, and they don't care, and this law only passes an article where it says that these personnel are going to be able to deploy certain people from home to home. These people's triba supplement, Covid supplement, these people are on the front line, these people. No one answered from you here State Secretary, you have two minutes and 30 seconds to sign up for why these people don't get a Covid supplement. Why did the state invest in professional training, in the professional training of nurses who are at the Bureau, and most of them went out. Why... Why is it on the desk if you need a fit? [[You don't understand.]] Why? They're on the desk, do you know what number? Well, you don't know how many private homes there are for the elderly and the powerless. And the system's disorder and system functioning is about the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Split where you name losers in local elections as directors of homes for older and powerless. In these places they must be the most professional, the most competent people in the area, because older and powerless are not cattle, and we need to talk about cattle as mild and as a blessing, and we are no longer saddened. Therefore, I call once again on you the COVID supplement for these people is an obligation, the obligation of this country to health and health care professionals within not only the home for older and powerless homes, but also in the welfare system and in the health systems of hospitals, health care homes COVID supplement that you have not accepted here which I have given the amendment as well as the COVID supplement for pensioners due to DVBT2 i.e. The new TV receiver and numerous pensioners is the only world in the window. The window into the world is the only television and now there is a moment when the receiver will change. And you didn't accept it and it's a country full of 20 million kunas to help, and it's always helped when the receivers were changing. Why not now in the COVID crisis? Who got a profit out of it? Who's gonna make money? Who's your sponsor? You forgive teleopers for 50% frequency fee at 7 months 50%. They didn't cut people's subscriptions or bills, 50%. So you're not saying that the Misetic family, the Misetic dynasty, is run by Andrija Plenkovic and this government? It's for pensioners, it's for the most vulnerable money, but you give money and you share and forgive those who have the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21474	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna take a break. Of course, first I will conclude the debate and we will decide on this point, vote when the conditions are met. And now we're gonna take a break from the wind and we're gonna see each other again in 15 hours and 5 minutes. MEETING IN 14.52 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21483	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.05 HOURS]] He's his first colleague, Troscott. After him, he's a colleague of Bartulic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21484	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, we are looking for, on behalf of the Club MOST for 10 minutes, we would like to consult further on today's interview by Mr. Sesse in the Morning List, which we believe is nothing more than an interview for the reason that we have a picture from this interview that the judicial octopus has released its ink today. And what does that ink refer to? Accordingly, according to this interview, the State Attorney's Office should start to monitor courts and send, thus reporting on the work of judges and on the presidents of courts. However, what Mr. Sessa or does not know or manipulate is the Law on Courts which is very clear on the reason that Article 93 of the Law states that the judge is obliged to handle cases which have been assigned to him in the work by order of their adoption, and Article 95 of that Law states that the President of the Court is obliged to take the case for those judges who have been disorderly acting on judicial duty. The blackness here has been released to not work, which is why the State's Attorney's Office should be brought into the process if the legislative framework already defines the existing processes and it is only an indication that before the Supreme Court's report it was intended to show that the Supreme Judge and his team are doing their job. What's the problem is that blackness is not in the eyes of Croatian citizens. So, ours, our lawsuits last 963 days in civil proceedings, and in commercial courts 942 days. Such behaviour has driven all our young people abroad, and not only that, given that I have dealt with serious business, it is driving serious investors and investors from the Republic of Croatia, given that they are not and do not trust the Croatian judicial system that we consider to be the cancer of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21485	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the breaks will be made possible. Here you go, fellow Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21486	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement. As you know, we've been waiting a long time for this point to come to the agenda. The ruling majority has already delayed this important debate on the work of the judicial authority, and we can finally say something about it today. However, in preparation for this session, I thoroughly prepared myself, and unfortunately we received a report from the Assembly Committee of Justice about an hour before this debate, so just before 14 o’clock. If that's the usual practice here, I don't think it's good, we should get the board's opinion in time. However, the Croatian public needs to know something. Greece alone spends more in the EU on financing executive, legislative and judicial authorities. So Croatia stands out a lot for the work of courts. This report lists an amount of over one billion kuna, a billion kuna for the work of courts, for wages, etc., and our citizens are rightly dissatisfied. The lack of confidence in the judiciary is very, unfortunately, I must say unfortunately high and, more than once, it has huge implications for other areas of the economy where many in advance do not want to invest in our country because of legal uncertainty, unfortunately. I wish it were different, but it's not. Fate power, of course, should be independent, but it is not out of criticism, which is why we are looking forward to this debate, but we are looking for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21487	The apartment will be approved for you, too. The truth for the sake of this point has not been delayed once, so it came to the agenda according to the chairman's decision, which is also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in 2019, 2020 is the year so we are doing everything in accordance with the rules. The apartment will, of course, be enabled. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21488	Thank you, Mr. President. If I had known that you would intervene, I would probably not have asked for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, so because of the objective public report, I would have wanted to tell Mr Bartulica, and tell everyone else, therefore, by virtue of the Law on Courts, the President of the Supreme Court is required until 30 April of the current year to report to the Croatian Parliament on the state of the judicial authority in Croatia for the past year. April 30th. I would remind Mr Bartulic if he didn't know it or knows it only deliberately that in the meantime, the assembly of the Croatian Parliament was disbanded, that we went in as MPs, the politicians in the campaign for parliamentary elections, that afterwards Mr Bartulica was the first regular session of the assembly. This is the first regular session of the assembly in this term. Therefore, I see no reason why you claim that someone would for any reason hide the report of the President of the Supreme Court and would not be delivered to the public and discussed in the Croatian Parliament. We today and as a club will be very happy to take part in the debate on the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia always pointing out that the judicial authority is one part of the government in Croatia independent of the work of the Croatian Parliament and of the Croatian Government. And we as Democrats need to respect that. With the right, in this debate we can resent, we can propose, but there is no need for us to tell the rulings that we are deliberately hiding the report he filed and we are discussing the report submitted by the President of the Supreme Court to the team more than is available to all interested citizens on the website of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21489	Okay. We have four injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First up, he's a colleague of Skoro's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21490	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, of course it's article 286. Rules of Procedure. Dear Mr. Bacic, this was a report from the board of directors. So it wasn't about Mr. Sesa's report, but you didn't hear it right. We got an hour ago a report from the board of directors on four thick-printed pages. If you've had it before, I apologize. Don't deceive the public either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21491	My colleague Škoro was talking about one and the other. So, my colleague, God is to me, my colleague Bartulica has been called upon to delay the debate on this point, which is not true. And this came within an hour ago that's probably true. But there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I won't even give you a warning. The second is representative Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21492	Thank you, Chairman. There was a violation of Article 238(4). My colleague Bačić spoke about a subject he did not receive, or another subject, rather than the injury of the Rules of Procedure. This isn't about justifiable criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21493	My colleague Oreskovic, he did not ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but rather a break. So I'm asking you to sit down because you're not following the debate at all. Please sit down. [[Upadica Oreshković: I am following the debate.]] Please sit down. [[Intruder Oreshković: Wait.]] Here you go, fellow Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21494	... I refer to Article 238. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood]] So, my colleague Bacic was a bit of a fixer-upper. I didn't say anything wrong. We got two months ago all the agenda points for this session of the Parliament. There were over 60 of them I think, and if I'm not wrong on the 7th or 8th month then there was a report in October about both the DORH and the DORH, and now we're already at the 12th month. So the question is, what happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21495	Comrade Bartulic, nothing happened. Points of the agenda and schedule determines the President of the Croatian Parliament and this is the first opportunity for us to discuss this point. So don't deceive the public because nothing special has happened. Reports have been discussed three years after the year in question, so this is a regular and completely correct and transparent situation. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21496	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bačić injured Article 238, where there should be no usual delay in the report, and in the Assembly of Croatia it is the biggest problem that reports late, and mainly on the issue of justice, either by the DORH, or by the Supreme Court. Why? Because this is godfatherly made up. Shex, through his godfathers, you know it well, put the judiciary together in Croatia. That's why we have the eviction of people and the mistrust of everyone in the judiciary. The greatest mistrust in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21497	Comrade Bulj, thank you very much. There's nothing late, and you're now looking for damage to the Rules of Procedure because of something that doesn't exist. So I won't even give you a warning. Now we'll take a break according to your demands. We'll continue at 15 hours and 25 minutes. It's 3:15 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.25 HOURS]] I wasn't in an equal position, I was in the next room, and here's the service to confirm that I raised my hand on time. All right, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21499	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, on your part, Mr President, where on two occasions you used God’s name for nothing in the address of parliamentary deputies. As a Christian, you know that you are using the name of the second commandment to sin and yet you should be careful, since you are the chairman of this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21500	And what am I supposed to say about this now? I'll refrain from commenting. [[Intruder: I would recommend confession to the chairman.]] What's the name of the Pharisees and those of others, yes. Let's move on, the applicant is the President of the Supreme Court based on Article 45. Court law. The debate was conducted by the Justice Committee, the government delivered an opinion. I would now ask the applicant's representative to further explain the report, with us is the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, Đuro Sessa. President of the Supreme Court, here you are, 20 minutes for the opening exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21501	My report is on the Supreme Court pages of May 1st of this year and in, I think, it's probably and delivered, I'll just say here the basic accentes and what I think is important for the general picture of the state of work of the courts in 2019, I warn that the judiciary makes up more components, the judiciary is just one of them. Let me begin by saying that today’s article in the morning list does not affect me because it was an inquiry by a journalist who wrote about it, and the powers are based on Articles 29, 30 and 31. Court law. There were 66 courts in the Republic of Croatia in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21502	Just a little bit please, you can take off the mask freely since you're behind the plexiglas to better understand and hear, to let your colleagues hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21503	Thank you, it'll help me. 66 courts, of which are municipal courts 34, county 15, commercial 9, administrative 4 and remain high courts and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. It's a huge reduction in the number of courts compared to a few years ago where there were only 107 municipal courts. As for the number of judges in, at the end of '19. There were 1712 judges of 1215 women in the year, and the rest of the judges were men, which is also a significant reduction in the number of judges. For comparison 2016 there were 1830 judges, and at the end of this year there will be 1672 judges in the Republic of Croatia. So the number of judges is decreasing. As far as the situation is concerned, so official staff in courts totaled 6593 of them were 10% court advisers and professional associates, slightly less than 1% of the trainees were in '19, now slightly fewer, officials, total court officials were 78% and the ten.31% were in the room. When it comes to the age structure of judges, then the largest number of judges is 1047 is in the years between 50 and 65 years at all levels, and this one would be one often repeated claim that judges are inexperienced no longer, because it is mostly a small inflow of new judges to courts, so they are mostly at all levels of judges, and especially when it comes to municipal courts, judges with a quite large already experienced experience. This would be one opportunity to consider introducing a two-ranking judge to municipal courts, so that they would be judges for up to 10 years and over 10 years of internships that would differ in status and, of course, in incomes, which would probably help the judges stay in municipal courts, not to burden the system in their efforts to advance because they would be motivated to stay in municipal courts and thus strengthen their experience, and thus the safety and routine that judges need in their daily work. As far as the need for judges and officials is concerned, according to the information I have requested from the courts and given the criteria and framework criteria, the courts require a total of 172 judges, 161 judicial advisers, then 19 senior advisers and 37 consultants, 589 officials and 76 tenants. These are figures which are not arbitrary but would result from the required number of judges according to the framework criteria for the work of judges and the number of judges in courts as well as indicative criteria for the number of court officials as one general act. As regards the budget for the judiciary in 2019, it was slightly higher than the budget in 2018 and amounted to about 1 billion 311 million 097 726 thousand and 10 commas and 10 limes. It was executed in 99.40% with the largest amount of the total spent on salaries and other rights of judges and employees in courts, about 80% of the budget went to these needs and the rest of the budget on all other activities of the courts. Here he would use to inform this high home that, according to the SEPEZ report, the bodies of the Council of Europe which, which deal with the efficiency of the judicial authority, are higher budgets and spend more on the head of the population or compared to GDP, Bulgaria, BiH, Macedonia, Ukraine, Serbia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Cyprus, Romania, Iceland, etc., so it is not true that Croatia spends the most on these parameters for the judiciary, but rather, rather, there are countries in Europe or members of the Council of Europe that spend much more. According to those needs for space, which is also one of the more painful overall judicial authorities, data were also shown by courts, that 229 courts and 251 other offices should be held in courts, and the greatest needs for courts were shown by municipal courts missing 175 courts and 151 other offices. In doing so, the biggest and somehow strongest problem at the Municipal Court in the Councils is because there is an inappropriate building and there is the only solution for that court to build a new court. When it comes to the needs of courts in relation to the equipment that I have available, which is missing from courts 731 computers, 167 laptops, 522 printers, portable printers 50, etc. etc., photocopiers, mobile ramps for disabled people, so the need for equipment in courts is quite high. Every single item in the report is detailed that not now, I don't read it all, and I'm not tired of you, and I'm not tired of staying time for any more important topics. As regards ownership of buildings, mainly in all buildings where courts, in which courts are located are owned by the Republic of Croatia, 27 courts are not, is in buildings that are not owned by the Republic of Croatia and for this is paid rent from different employers. They're somewhere in JLS, sometimes they're, somewhere private, private companies, and mostly the total amount that's been allocated annually for the lease of courts is 4 million 722 thousand 183.30 kuna. As for the affairs of the judicial administration, therefore, the cases which, which have been conducted in the management of the courts, have been brought by the courts, had 75,580 open cases of the judicial administration and were largely resolved, 6,687 pending cases remain. What I would like to highlight here in this report is that there were 5,475 performances and complaints by the party on the work of the courts. Not entering into whether these performances were justified or unwarranted, and sometimes justified, they were sometimes unwarranted, when taking the total number of cases in work in 2019 and the total number of complaints turned out to be that the parties complained in 0.32% compared to all cases. So, no, there's no large number of complaints, and with... to the content of these complaints and theirs in order to have one aspect of the parties from complaining to the court it does not exist because the courts are quite open to these issues. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, a large number of complaints against the work of the courts, can be said from these data, it turns out that there is no, and courts are mostly the judges' best control of either senior courts on legal medicines or parties in the proceedings. In the total number of cases that were tried or resolved in the courts in the Republic of Croatia, a million 289 thousand 716 cases were brought to the courts in 2019 and a million 690s were in operation, almost a million and 700 thousand cases and a million and 215, 959 cases were resolved and 471,348 cases remained unsolved, so the inflow of the case was increased compared to the year 18. 11%. This is often said, which is why there are so many inflows in Croatia, and then it is mentioned that it is a country of 4 million inhabitants and so many cases, but it should be taken into account that it does not care about companies and others, other bodies that have the right to be parties to the proceedings and whose rights and duties, both rights and duties and obligations and obligations and responsibilities are resolved in courts. So, according to all this data, the number, the number of cases that have been resolved slowly falls from each year. But what I would particularly like to emphasise is that the court's success is best expressed through its urgency, so through the ratio of the items received in one year and the number of cases solved in one year, and this is also according to the report by SEPEZ Croatia is located in a zone of countries where it is satisfactory and is mainly within a circle of Scandinavian countries and Central European countries, unlike the countries such as Greece, France, Italy, Spain where the situation towards SEPEZ is alarming. So here I would mention that Croatia is not in one catastrophic state, as it is always wanted, constantly places. Overall, looking at the urgency of the courts, taking care of all cases conducted in the courts in the Republic of Croatia in 2019, the rate of urgency was 98.18%. The duration, the average duration of the procedure is 134 days, and 697 cases were received by the judge. 685 cases have been solved and 251 items left unsolved per judge. Thus, in this respect, the number of cases in some courts is increasing and some are being reduced. If these data are dubious by type of courts, then the municipal courts have solved 853 thousands of 825 cases. This is a little less than in 2018, and 323 thousand 325 remain unsolved. So the number of pending cases has increased somewhat in municipal courts. From 249 thousand 740 to 323 thousand. Ninety-two thousand 272 cases were received at the county courts and 97 thousand 862. So more has been solved than was received and the number of unsolved items has been reduced to 37,000 550, and there were 43,000 124. In my court, this is the reason for the amendment of the Law on Courts and Areas, which allowed secondary cases to be deployed evenly by an algorithm at random to all courts of county courts in the Republic of Croatia. So second-degree items are solved independently of where they were dealt with at the first stage. This, of course, applies to county courts because these other courts are a second-degree court, so of course this is out of the question and you have achieved first that the judges are evenly distributed. Secondly, that efforts to resolve the case are evenly distributed to all courts, that these random allocations of the case are evenly burdened by the courts and judges, and that in certain matters the courts judge and to locate those issues on which different practices exist in the county courts and that what is allowed for both parties, of course, and in that case, the possibility of unifying the Supreme Court's case law is extended except for the fact that the matter is more effective. The High Violent Court also reduced the number of pending cases. The trade courts also resolved more than was received. In the High Court of Commerce as well as in the Administrative Court as well. Therefore, all courts in the High Administrative Court are slightly larger numbers of pending cases than they were in 2018 for 500 cases and the Supreme Court has reduced the number of pending cases. More has been resolved than was accepted and in 2019 there were 13 thousand 967 unsolved cases at the end of the year. This year, indicators for the 11th month that this number is somewhere around 12,000 unsolved items. So it's still down by 1,000. I'd be back on duty again. So in municipal courts, municipal courts are up to 96.25% and the average length of the procedure is 138 days. The county courts have an update of 106.05% and the average duration time is... 140 days. In the High Violent Court, 86.64% and 352 days respectively are up-to-date. Therefore, there are slightly worse results than in 2018, but the reason is also a drastically reduced number of cases that are being solved by antiquity, which in the High Violation Court was a major problem until last year, and now this number of cases solved by old age does not, of course, enter the statistics and thus the number of pending cases is smaller, but it is naturally more high quality. In commercial courts, the frequency is 102.59% and the duration, the average duration of the proceedings is 53 days, and at the High Commercial Court is 127% and the average duration of the proceedings is 293 days. So about 10 months, so this mantra would also be that the commercial courts are the brakes of progress and that the investments stand because the commercial courts are slow or poor, it seems to me that this data doesn't stand. Of course there can always be excess or there may be objects that exceed the average of their complexity so that but the average and data therefore most of these items end within a year and a half. Therefore, this information is either based on some information that the system of the official system of the Ministry of Justice does not have or is malicious. In the administrative courts, it is 108% up-to-date and the duration of the proceedings is 187 days. At the High Administrative Court, 91% and the duration of the proceedings are 210 days. At the Supreme Court is 111% up-to-date and the duration of the proceedings is 558 days. This is mainly due to the length of proceedings in civil matters, and this is because the Supreme Court was given its legal constitutional position in civil cases only by amending the Civil Procedure Act in 2019, which took effect in September, and by then it had missed several times the opportunity to do what happened in September 2019, because there was a mixed approach to the Supreme Court, which absolutely burdened the court with a large number of cases which did not deserve the Supreme Court's involvement in such cases. But it's been a while, but the reasons for that are there. If the urgency and duration of the procedure is considered according to the types of cases. I think that, therefore, is the look-alike of the first picture that speaks about the urgency of courts according to types of courts, then in criminal cases would be an update of 97.95% and the duration of the proceedings is 236 days, in civil cases is 91.26% and the duration of the proceedings is 354 days. In administrative matters, there is 103% up-to-date, so 103% more than the duration time applied is 194 days. In the executive cases, 121%) is up-to-date, and the duration of the procedure is 257 days. In trade matters, it is 119% up-to-date and 290 days is the duration of the procedure. In infringements 94% and 158 days and land-book items are up-to-date and the total duration of land-to-book procedures there is not meant by those beliefs, the issue of land-to-book excerpts, but the cases which are resolved on the right, and we know that the right of ownership is acquired by enrolment in land-books is the time of the 40-day procedure. At a time when these decisions have been pending for several months, and sometimes years I think it is quite a breakthrough in the work of land-book courts, with some courts particularly on islands, because there are not enough people, and in, on the continent, it is measured by less than 7 days of solving such cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21504	Thank you very much. Time's up. No, no, we shouldn't be doing this without you asking. [[And then there'd be only at the end if I could.]] You will be represented by the Assembly [[Okay, thank you.]] Then there will be an opportunity for you to explain all this to them, but you shall remain behind the pay phone. [[I don't doubt that.]] We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21505	Croatian citizens have the greatest mistrust in several things, I will list them 5, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary. The longest processes in the EU and beyond are in the Republic of Croatia. The economy is insecure people are leaving, the inequality of court practice. Your extractions, Mr. Sessa, as the man on the roof of the court authorities, are so insignificant, Benign that you mention. That report of yours wouldn't support a little kid in kindergarten. You know who's to blame for this state of justice in the judiciary? You know who the vermin are, who would have to leave? Do you know Mr. Sessa President of the Supreme Court where the fish are cleaned? From the head. You know who the vermin are, you know who the weeds are? You, Mr. Sessa, have brought the judiciary and are responsible for the state of justice as Supreme Chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21506	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Supreme Court, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21507	Well, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21508	Next up, the next replica is the respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21509	Dear Mr. Sessa, I will quote you that you said that, that these commercial courts are mantras to destroy entrepreneurship. Page 76 8.4 of the age structure of the case of commercial courts, courts older or cases older than 7 years. Here, please explain to the Croatian public why 936 2017 was an increase of 1043 2018 and 1022 2019 when you talk about mantras, we are talking about growing cases over 7 years by 30%. And the second question is, where is your responsibility, Mr. Sessa, if the State's Attorney's Office is going to be the one to drag the Presidents of the Court's sleeve, monitor the judges and report on it and where those judges are responsible, then, if the Court Act is clear where Articles 93 and 95 clearly define the responsibilities. Where is your responsibility, Mr. Sessa?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21510	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21511	I'll start at the end, so nothing, no impact on the courts is being done just trying to compare the data that courts have with those that have the State's Attorney's office and try to locate whether there are cases in which there are no, in which there's no justifiable reason not to work in them. Nothing else and nothing more and nothing less. When the data is obtained by the courts, the data will be compared and seen whether they are correct or not. Already some courts have come forward with reports, and it has been shown that the data available to the State's attorney's office does not match the state of affairs. When we have a detailed report on all the courts, then we'll know where we are. But there is no influence on the judges, because the judges are neither affected, nor determined by the facts, nor how they will apply the law. As far as old cases are concerned, the number of cases older than 7 years in Croatia has been reduced compared to In '18. 22 from 24 to 22 thousand items. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21512	Thank you very much. We have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He's the first respected representative of the bush. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21513	Article 238 of the Sessa was injured, he did not know the Law on Courts, which is what his colleague Troscott warned about. So, Mr. Sessa, the presidents of the courts have a responsibility to monitor what judges do, that's their responsibility, you don't need that State's Attorney's office like your colleague Troscott told you to pull someone by the sleeve. You and the presidents of the courts and judges who don't do their jobs should have been fired. from the service because they don't do the job. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21514	Of course, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Dear Representative Troscott has also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's he hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21515	Article 238, Mr. Sessa is telling the truth, so I do not speak populistly, I have cited exactly the age structure of the case of commercial courts cases older than 7 years compared to 2017 an increase of 30%. Mr. Sessa, I was just asking why. Here's what's your responsibility, then, if you can't interpret the report you present before this body. Why is the increase of the quiet, and you say the mantra is on one side.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21516	Dear Representative Troscott, of course, you get a warning, too, because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a replica. Don't abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you all nicely. He has yet to lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the respected Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21517	Thank you very much. Sessa, Mr. Sessa hurt Article 238 by bringing up a series of lies and accusing parliamentarians of telling lies. The greatest vermin is the one who manages the judiciary and the biggest damages in the Republic of Croatia are the judiciary. Not people who work in the system, but you who want to transfer to another, to the State's Attorney's office, responsibility. You're a pest and you'd have to resign because of this condition that people are moving out of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21518	So you and your colleague Bull hurt the Rules of Procedure. You know very well that not only is it not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not only is it a replica instead of a violation of the Rules of Procedure which you have abused, but it is also an insult of speakers, and it is simply not allowed. Of course, I'm giving you a warning and I'm asking you nicely to behave in the manner that suits this home. You all know very well that regardless of what one of us thought the other representative or speaker spoke, agreed or disagreed with him, thought that he was telling the truth or that telling the truth had nothing to do with hurting the Rules of Procedure. Read your Rules of Procedure at last. Finally, because you have been quite a long time, some of you have already had a second term, some of you have been in this third term for quite a long time, some of you are already in the first term, some of them are in the first term, but a long time here, a time to read finally the Rules of Procedure and see what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure and what is not, which is a replica that is not a replica. Dear Representative Bacic also has a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21519	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bulj injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because in a rude way, he insulted the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia through him and all the judges in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that my, or his or any disagreement with the work of the Supreme Court president does not deserve, does not deserve to be treated in this way by the Parliament to the first man of one of the highest institutions in Croatia. I don't want to protect Mr. Sessu, but I think this is how I protect our representative of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21520	My colleague Bacic, I just told my colleague Bull. You shouldn't have warned me about that. The next replica is the respected representative of Krunoslav Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21521	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court. Well, I'm going to try to get a little debate back in the affirmative tone without charges and try to deal with the profession and what's important for this country, and that's solving things in the judiciary. With careful reading of your report, I have found several mentions of the fact that a newly established High Criminal Court will be introduced into the judicial system, which begins on 1 January 2021. Therefore, my question in view of this newspaper, how will this fact affect the unification of the case law that belongs to one of the exclusive competences of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21522	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21523	Thank you very much. So in the criminal branch of the trial, the Supreme Court, as long as it acted as a court of appeal in the vast majority of its cases, therefore the appeal court on all cases in which the first-degree proceedings were conducted in the county courts found that it could not evenen the case-law and was actually in a position that existed while the Federal Court was in Belgrade. With this amendment, only the Supreme Court is placed in a position that balances the case law that is uniform in the Supreme Court on the basis of exceptional legal medicines. This is what the European Court of Human Rights said clearly, and we have thus leveled the position of the Supreme Court in both civil and criminal areas of the trial and there is no difference in the essence and procedure that exceptional legal remedies do not balance judicial rights both in the civil and criminal fields of the trial.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21524	Thank you very much. Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21525	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Supreme Court, you mentioned in your presentation of infrastructure from the very buildings of the courts, and we also know the desire of the City of Split to transfer the Municipal Court from the Dračevac periphery to the center itself. I believe that I could have asked that question to the Ministry myself, but since you're going to manage that building in some way, I'm going to ask you. Now we see on the ground that it is being restored, even built up because de facto goes from the very foundation, so I'm curious when the final move of the Municipal Court to that building is planned. When will she be in office? When will you move in? And do you know that? You were probably planning on getting enough space to transfer everyone from Dračevci? Will it be a complete municipal court in the end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21526	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21527	Thank you very much. Now that building will be managed by the court, not me. I think what I do know is that most of the funds were obtained from the donation of the Norwegian donation and that, in relation to the space, I can't tell you right now, I can, I can ask you in writing whether this space will be enough to accommodate the entire municipal court in Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21528	The next replica will be the respected representative of Damir Habib.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21529	Thank you very much, Vice President, the Honorable Supreme Court President, Deputy President, Secretary of State. These special circumstances at the time in which we live, which is caused by this new Covid-19 disease, have shown the need for increasing digitisation. In its recent report on the rule of law, the European Commission has just cited the digitalisation process in the judiciary as a positive example when it comes to the Republic of Croatia. Thus, the European Commission points out that progress has been made in recent years when it comes to information and telecommunications management systems, including in terms of plans to expand the single system to administrative courts currently being used by the inherited system. He would also point out here the example of the town of Varazdin, or the specific Commercial Court in Varazdin, which has met the recent conditions for maintaining a remote hearing starting on 2 November this year. In view of this very short question, can you briefly state your position or situation regarding digitisation in Croatian courts or in particular the Croatian judiciary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21530	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21531	Thank you very much. So digitization could be set in two directions. One is the management of cases, which already exists except in the administrative court, so the inflow of cases, the distribution of cases, the management of all operations in the procedure, etc., which are available at two levels. One is an internal one, which is allowed by judicial staff, and one is an external one allowed by parties where personal data protection and other variants are cared for, the other component is access to databases, so court practice, mostly the Supreme Court, and the third is the one that has now brought us in, it is the conduct of procedures at a distance. In criminal terms, I think that should be complemented by procedural laws because the CAP has only one provision that allows for a further discussion without discussion in order to implement or at least some business provisions, and the CAP does not know that in the first degree, but also that it is already doing very well, and it is already a spy practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21532	Thank you very much. The next replica of respected representatives of Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21533	... instructive and non-binding... [[Speaker not enabled]] In your report, you did not provide information on the procedures for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] My question is, what did you personally and the presidents of the courts do to sanction the conduct of judges who do not guarantee the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21534	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21535	There were no cases, as far as I know, that the judges would disobey the first decisions they were ordered to make when there was a breach of the trial within a reasonable period of time, I don't know. But in any case, the procedure has two stages, one in which it is resolved on the law, and the other incurs monetary compensation, and in this year 66,000 kunas were awarded for all injuries to the trial within a reasonable period of time. As regards DSV, I, DSV is not part of the Supreme Court, it is an independent judicial body and, if it should be spoken of, may need to amend the DSV Act, so that the president of the DSV shall also present a report to the Assembly, and so may the parliamentary representatives who are members of that body. Therefore, to interfere in the work and to respond to assessments of whether it is an act, whether it is something of a tenacity and how it should be sanctioned, it is a matter of DSV which in that case, he acts as a court. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21536	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Villa Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21537	Thank you, President-in-Office, Your Honor, the Supreme Court. 2015 The European Court of Human Rights has adopted two unfavourable verdicts for the Croatian judiciary concerning the approval of secret data collection measures in Dragojevic's cases against Croatia and Basic against Croatia. We know that the judge's investigation into the USKOK proposal and the Supreme Court's proposal to SOA approves of the secret data collection measures. The European Court of Justice criticised us that the judges approved these measures without too much questioning and that the requirements for the activation of the measures were often superficially justified. You can please tell us how much this has improved in the meantime and if you can give us the missing HS data, how many requests for the activation of the secret measures, how many have been granted Rejudged [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] in 2019, the European Food [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21538	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21539	I can't give it to you because it's a secret piece of information and I, as president of the court, have no insight into it, it's what the judges who are assigned to it do. , and as far as the judgment of the European Court of Justice is concerned, I cannot tell you exactly now, but as far as I know in the meantime, there have been no new judgments, it means that we are in the process of executing the judgment of the European Court of Justice and taking into account what the European Court of Justice has said, I suppose, and in line with what the European Court has said, but in particular, I cannot give you the details now because I really don't know them. [[/Intruder: Next.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21540	The next replicas of the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21541	Dear Mr. Sessa, on page 111 of the report you controversially presented information on the cost of renting buildings in which the judicial authorities are located, and you covered up key information on who the tenants are. You are saying that for 27 properties we have rent, and only the Criminal Court in Zagreb spends 3 million and 600,000 kuna, it turns out that these 26 other properties spend only one million kuna, and besides that amount we have 797 thousand euro rent. I really don't understand why you didn't ask for information about who the most moderns are because it may be about the rights and natural persons who have cases in our courts and it can really question the impartiality of the courts in the trial and the conflict of interest of some judges. That information was required to be displayed in this report, and they are not present.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21542	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21543	Okay, if you want, I can examine it further and deliver an answer. There were some situations I know personally where they appeared as party tenants and there the courts without exception sought a delegation of the second court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21544	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21545	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Supreme Court, in your debate, you said that the success of the courts is measured by the urgency of the cases received or resolved, and today we are all full of the mouth of the judiciary, so I don't see why the problem as the media of this unusual letter to all the presidents of the county, municipal or high criminal court, hastening cannot affect the independence of judges or decision-making, but only whether or not they will work, because indeed, if they do so with urgency, then we can't have judges carry out the procedure for several years to bring it to an end, and in the meantime order a few of the arts and then send the case to an end of course. So I don't see why it would be controversial to really warn them that some items must be rushed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21546	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21547	Thank you very much. Otherwise, over the past year 46 cases have been completed with antiquity, so this is almost a meaningless number compared to 55,000 solved criminal cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21548	The following is the replica of the respected advocates of Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21549	The Honorable President of the Court is a very specific issue, today it is headed by the city of Varazdin, Mayor Ivan Chehok. Mr. Chehok was arrested in 2011 when he was also mayor, against him four indictments of over 100 million kuna were filed all for damage to the city of Varazdin. After 10 years of trial in 3 indictments or inadmissible verdicts, therefore nothing, in one inadmissible sentence of 2 years. After that, 2.5 years nothing. At this point, Chehok is once again the mayor who decides exactly on contracts for which he has been accused and unlawfully convicted. So I'm asking you a simple question as a responsible person. Will you allow the citizens of the city of Varazdin to continue to be hostages of negligence, unemployment or incompetence of the judiciary or after 10 years, and before the local elections say whether their mayor is a criminal or an innocent man? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21550	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21551	Determining the debate in this case is in the sole jurisdiction of the judge, I have already, like some other cases where cases stand for more than 2 years at the Supreme Court, and hasten to make an appointment. No, unfortunately, it is not the only subject of such a scope in the Supreme Court and requires a certain time, therefore, while and of course they are being dealt with in a given order. But what I can do is do it myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21552	The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21553	President-in-Office of the Supreme Court, very briefly, when you will and will take measures to get out of the judicial system, and from the foundation of this constitutional and legal order you will cast out the monstrous, cruel, communist, anti-civilization judgments primarily of the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice of the Union of '46. what day it existes today, and at the expense of all the citizens of Zrin. The second question, when will you and will you bring any legal understanding regarding the victims of Serbian concentration camps and all victims of our Homeland War who are unable to exercise their rights because in the world it has not been recorded anywhere, do not have access to courts to sue the Republic of Serbia when everything else has failed or has not yet been introduced and will you bring any legal position or will the European Court of Human Rights be the last instance?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21554	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21555	The Supreme Court may, in principle, adopt a position only in the decision on the case before the Supreme Court. It can also be if there are different decisions of the Supreme Court then, at the department meeting, take a position which of these two decisions is a position that will be accepted by all, which must be accepted by all judges and all councils. So on something that, the Supreme Court doesn't make abstract conclusions, it's simply impossible. Therefore, whether requests for a Republic of Serbia are the Supreme Court does not decide. As far as these '46 verdicts are concerned. I don't know right now if the procedure for reviewing those decisions is in front of the Supreme Court, if it is, I would ask you some information about the number of these cases and I'll look into what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21556	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stephen Nikola Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21557	Thank you. Dear Mr. Sessa, in the report you listed some countries that are spending even more on the head of the population than we are, some like Iceland, BiH, Macedonia, etc., are not in the EU, so what I said earlier remains relevant. However, it seems to me that we may be living in parallel worlds, so in preparation for a debate on executive law I have heard from many people that we have this law simply because our courts are too slow and are not able to solve very effectively, efficiently and quickly many executive cases. But in this report, you're talking about a reduction, a reduction in the number of cases that last longer than 7 years, so we still have a large number. Is that within a reasonable time frame? The constitutional principle is to get rid of this one to ensure justice within a reasonable period of seven years? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21558	The answer of the esteemed Supreme Court President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21559	This period of seven years has not been taken into account. It was transferred from the European Court of Human Rights criteria, which said that everything that has been more than 7 years is a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. As far as the executive law is concerned, it is this system as it is now that has really relieved the courts and by returning, when these cases would return to the courts, about a million more cases would come to the courts although a large number of cases beginning outside the court end only as executive cases, but as litigation cases. So a large number of cases actually remain in some way coming to the courts. It's a matter of legislator's ability to edit the executive system. I can't do too much of this, give some grades except in some perhaps professional conversations and how the courts will act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21560	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21561	The President-in-Office of the Supreme Court, the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Report of the Ombudsman from year to year shows a trend in reducing the share of members of national minorities and in the ranks of officials in the judiciary. Please comment on such a trend.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21562	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21563	As far as the officials are concerned, this is a matter for the State Judicial Council, not for the President of the Supreme Court, because I have no influence on this, nor am I officially a member of the State Judicial Council. No president of the court is that. Therefore, it is a matter for the State Judiciary Council. As far as the clerks are concerned, I don't have any, I don't have that information. I can check them even though I'm afraid it's one sensitive question and the question of whether everyone will, will give that information about their rationality if that ratio is evaluated. In any case legal here I think the courts respect them, anyone who calls for a minority of the national minority with that it's about the area where they should have... that the courts respect that. [[You don't understand.]] Is that so, I don't know. If there's any concrete example that it's not, I'd be happy to examine it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21564	The next replica is the respected representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21565	Thank you. Your Honor, I would ask you to answer my question, so what was done with the fact that SOA presented in its 2016 report, which is that it recognized as one of the national threats of 20 judges working in the system and being corrupt? I'm curious what you've done on this matter and what is the system of detection and the actual removal of such judges that have such a kind of risk created within the system itself? The other thing I wanted to ask you is about my colleague's question, and that's to explain to us why the number of orders for covert data collection measures would be classified? This does not endanger any investigation, nor does private data be questioned but only parliamentary control of the number of such orders issued or at least a percentage of the Supreme Court's approval. Here, that would be the information you should give us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21566	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Supreme Court President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21567	Well, it's probably possible to get that information on the National Security Assembly Committee from SOA employees. But if you don't think it's classified, I can easily deliver it. As for the first question, it is a journalistic factory because from the words of the president or head of SOA, I am told directly that it is not true that they never wrote it in their report. So since that's not true, then I really shouldn't have acted on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21568	The next replica is the respected representative of Rada Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21569	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Court, the State Secretary. Here you are, the President of the Court, saying a lot of information at the beginning of your presentation, and I will remain only for some who are troubled in the interest of our citizens. You said the judges weren't beginners. It means they've had enough experience. That you have the equipment and that you have the means to work. Well, I'm interested in you telling us a few reasons why court proceedings take so long and what are your forecasts for future work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21570	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21571	My report doesn't exactly indicate that they have the means to work and space, because I've given a lot of large figures about how much the courtroom, the equipment, etc. is missing. As for the duration of the procedure, average data indicate that they are not, that there are no excesses of length. Of course, there are cases that last too long and can only be reduced on the one hand by the control of the length of proceedings by the President of the Courts and on the other hand by legislative amendments. One of the legal changes that should be made urgently, i.e. to amend the Law on the litigation and architecture of the first-degree procedure for all proceedings under way, and not only for those who started 2013. I keep saying that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21572	The next replica of the respected representative, Matko Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21573	Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Sessa, Mr. Bacic has just asked a question you haven't quite given a clear answer to, so I don't know if you're up to it or if you're not in charge of it. Namely, this is a municipal court building in Split. For a long time, the Municipal Court in Split has been in the former military Dračevac and has sought adequate premises to return the court to its place in Split. That means downtown where he's been. A location was found in which we see it invested and a lot of money. It doesn't matter to us now whose money it is. These are the money managed by the Ministry of Justice, and according to the towers, it's said that this building isn't enough. So it started with a project that won't satisfy the court's needs. I wonder if you're familiar with that. If it is, why is that? If you're not, why aren't you? And if this is exactly what I said, you think someone should be responsible for what we're already doing in advance, a project that won't be long-term for our area.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21574	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21575	Yes, I am not aware of the details because investments are not in the jurisdiction of the courts, of the Supreme Court, but of the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, the real answer and the right address to answer the question is the Ministry of Justice and the size of the investment and the court-building plan. If necessary, I can ask the Ministry of Justice for detailed information and inform you of that. But I think the Justice Department can answer very easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21576	The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21577	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear President of the Supreme Court, we've heard a lot about cases that have been dealt with for over 10 years. I would look back and ask about war crimes cases, given that it has been 25 years since the end of the Homeland War, and we know that there is a great dissatisfaction in society with regard to the situation with regard to the solution of these cases, and that is also logical, since we are wondering whether and if the principle of justice is achieved if the cases are solved for so long and whether that justice is then served after such a long time. So please tell us more about solving these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21578	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21579	War crimes cases are the most complex cases that can even appear before courts as part of a criminal trial, and they really take a terrible long time. One reason is that for a long time proceedings have not been conducted at all, nor have the debates indicated where the defendants are not available to the court. It is our coming to the head of the court that has changed, and we have asked the courts to lead and those proceedings where they are found inaccessible regardless of what may happen if the defendant appears and is available to the judiciary that these proceedings will be repeated. What's done is seem to me like something should be done, which is to expand the circle of courts that can judge in these cases. Not only war crimes, but also jump cases because it's just one connected whole, because the same judges mostly work on these cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21580	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21581	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Sessa, therefore, based on the Constitutional Court's decision, the High Criminal Court begins to work on 1 February 2021. Obviously, conditions have been met because we have the opportunity to see that space is being arranged, and the number of judges has been chosen. I'm interested in the following, I assume that you've done one analysis or seen how much you expect, I don't expect you to tell me now in a number exactly, less cases that will come to the Supreme Court, that the Supreme Court may then be able to be more operational and everything else and maybe here in a minute that you can tell your consideration whether the establishment of another High Court of Justice means that we'll have something faster to solve the case, more uniform court practice and less problems than at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21582	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21583	There are currently 698 criminal cases at the Supreme Court today. Certainly, in these cases, there are largely no cases that should come after extraordinary legal remedies because the Supreme Court has acted as a court of appeal. I expect that exactly the new position of the Supreme Court will be strengthened by the power of uniform court practice, and I hope that the High Criminal Court will be much more up-to-date than the Supreme Court in those cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21584	The next replica is the respected MPs Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21585	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Sessa, your colleague, Ranko Marijan, is known for condemning people for verbal delinquency at the time when the communist system was already in deep collapse, a man who became a judge in 1982, a man who was mentioned as a candidate of the CNS party for the minister of justice, who abolished the verdict of Srecko Ferencaku, the chief secretary of the CNS, according to media reports in the early 1990s, bought an apartment at a baffle price in the centre of Zagreb from the person he was judging at the time. In its property card it states that there are 3 apartments in Zagreb, and the entire working life works in the judiciary. Did you, Mr. Sessa, make a proposal to the DSV to get rid of that judge? Because not that such a person can't be the Supreme Court's supreme judge but can't be in the justice system at all? Judges must be an unimpeached reputation, and that judge apparently only causes a dismal one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21586	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21587	I have nothing to answer for. I mean... Judge of the Supreme Court. [[You don't understand.]] He was elected by the State Judicial Council and properly performs his duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21588	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21589	To begin with, one specific question. Do we know how much wages court counselors have today, for example? at the municipal court or court officials? Can you tell me what the coefficients are? I think it is important for the Croatian public to hear this because these people are doing a responsible job. That's the first question. I think it's important to hear it in public. And second, I would ask you to tell us here is very important at the head of the Supreme Court what are your relations with Mr. Zdravko Mamic?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21590	The Honorable President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21591	My relations with Mr. Zdravko Mamic are nothing. As for the salaries of court officials they are listed in the last page of my report and one of the proposals is that the salaries of court officials should be increased by at least 30%. As far as court advisors are concerned, their wages differ from their rank. I think the court advisors have about six thousand kunas. Senior court advisors are slightly higher, and senior court advisers, or specialists, have salaries almost equal with judges, pay about $11,500 kuna. net, net. [[Intruder: Net.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21592	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. President. We are now going to the representatives' clubs, so the first one will be the SDP Representatives' Club, in the name of which the respected representative Michel Jaksic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21593	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, President of the Supreme Court with fellow Members Mr. Mr. Mr.čel and Mr. Martinovic, representative of the Ministry of Justice and Administration, of course respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, I personally do not plan to discuss what he is and whether the President of the Supreme Court, Đuro Sessa, is successful or not, I think we are going to have this debate very soon because we are now going out or coming up to the year of choosing the new Supreme Court leadership, but to see where we are, which is why we are with our judiciary and with the very situation in our judiciary. When we start this debate, it is who and everything in life we can discuss whether the glass is half full or half empty and I think that just to clear the situation in the Croatian judiciary would not be correct because of all the good, honest and honest people who work on our courts, on our municipal courts, on our county courts, on many of those cases that do not come under the lights of the reflectors, and where they do important things for our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. Of course, in every grain, weeds are found and, of course, that ultimate impression is made by those processes and those judgments that attract the lights of the reflector. What Mr. Sessa stated in his report and in his debate here today at the Assembly, but also at the Judicial Committee, is that each of us should support every initiative to provide better technical conditions for the judiciary itself. Because if we want to be clear, a high - quality and adequate judiciary, we need to consider what comes to us from this profession no matter how many times it goes along with it and disagrees as some sort of proposal to improve their conditions for their daily activities. But we also need to, you know, maybe it's too hard to ride, but we need to insist strongly that with every raise of conditions in our judiciary, we give ourselves even more effort to make that so-called. Scoring, which is also mentioned in the debates so far, so that we finally have clear tables, clear measurements as to how which judge does his job, from that smallest to the highest court and that any citizen of this country can see at any time of the day and night, and that everything goes according to plan and everything goes according to some normal legal regulations, and there somewhere else happens that every other, every third item goes into obsolescence. Judges have good salaries, have a certain status in this society, the judicial authority is very important for the development of this country and as a society of course and as an economy and it is definitely that not wanting to get into some deeper debate so that I don't turn out to be involved in the independence of the judiciary, but I think we can all come up with a model of how we're going to fight and measure the success of our judges. People who do wrong end up being punished in our business and we are being punished, a good part of the MPs if they don't do their job well probably the citizens never end up choosing him and I think they might as well be in the private sector to have one model that those who are definitely by the rules of the profession fail with some period simply don't be judges anymore and to look for happiness in some other jobs. Because we're in some situations where we have some judges who come to some smaller municipal court and they're literally waiting for a pension, things are slowly piling up until someone who says yes comes along and we're going to cut it down. Of course, any trend in reducing the number of judges, in reducing the number of objects that we have, or that go into obsolescence, is the same thing we should praise, but what we need to look more at is how and what objects go into obsolescence. What is the intensity of the works that have gone into obsolescence and what are the objects that have gone into obsolescence? And maybe the works that ended up in our old age in the last 10 years were 920, Mr. Sessa said that last year there were 46, so on some average, the figure fell, but it's precisely those things that go into old age that are the most common reason we know to get pucks from the EU and the European Commission that we have some structural problems in our judiciary, and maybe these are exactly the reasons why such a low level of trust in our judiciary and why the mass of young people who left this country say that they're leaving because they don't believe that something can change and do something better. Young people did not leave because someone had done something because anyone who normally works and lives normally knows that this could happen regardless of all the discussions we had about the executive laws. Young people didn't leave because someone was suing someone in the middle, around the border. Young people leave because there is an impression that we have a caste that no one can do, and unfortunately, this caste often passes through these items that go into obsolescence. And that is why I hope that the leadership of the Supreme Court, as well as the political structures and the government, have enough desire and energy to deal seriously with exactly the kind of things that I think we all agree on for too long, have been rounding up the public in this country. We had a judiciary in communism, Communism as such failed that it was good and perfect would not have failed, after communism came I will now make a little joke in a period of sexism, when it was long spoken of, I read it too young to know that we have the gray eminence of Vladimir Seks, it is obvious that by coming both new people and entering the EU some things fall a little bit, but in order to fall to the end we shouldn't have an outdated event in the case of the Kutla still plus that gentleman running across the border, they'll laugh out of all of us and eventually sue the state for damage, mental pain and what's already going on along with it. It would not have happened to us the Gucic case, we would not have had an age for war profit in the case of Gavrilovic, an age in the case of General Zagorec and a cottage that bought a hand in some council or in some assembly, it would not have happened to us that a stepping object against 9 persons would end up in, for millions of damage, becoming obsolete for 86 out of 88 acts, it would not have happened to us that Mr Kušner had been looking for his justice for 8 years, that the Maskarin case would have become obsolete, that the professor of law in Split would have been unjustly sentenced to prison, but the prison sentence itself would have ended up in obsolescence, that the affair of a chain in Rijeka would have ended in old, that we had 58 years old from Zadar who were self-suffering in front of the baker and even that ended in antiquity. There would not have happened to us the case of Zdravko Mamic, who, not before the night of his sentence, fled to the neighbouring country, mocked this country, the citizens of this country, mocked in the final and judicial power, and Mr. Sessa himself was mentioned in some of his tirads. So I hope that in the time to come we will deal more with how to prevent precisely such anomalies and such forms where any rational citizen can think that obviously someone who is financially strong or sufficiently politically networked can stretch out his dispute, can drag him into obsolescence, can escape from this country, can never really be held accountable to this country and to this society for what he did. We need this reform of the judiciary, I believe that in 2020, it matures and it is time for us to make such a strong reform. Well, thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21594	Thank you very much. The next debate will be held on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, and will be addressed by the respected representativeplasimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21595	Dear citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen, as well as any debate, should first put everything in one context that we will then explain later. So what we were asking questions today during Mr. Sesse's presentation is a little too much coincidence that just such a paid article is found in the morning list of days, or today, when we need to discuss the Supreme Court's report. In our assessment, it's actually just proof that unfortunately nothing is done. Because now why would the entire process put more State's Attorney's office which should then be dragged by the presidents of the courts by the sleeves, oversee the judges whether they're doing their job. If the Courts Act is very clear, Articles 93 and 95 clearly state how to proceed when the case comes to court and what the President of the Court should do with those judges. However, if it were to be respected, Articles 93 and 95 would be respected. The law on courts would then dispel the mass of judges who were not simple and also the president of courts who failed to perform their duties, and probably would have blown out Mr. Sessa. It's something to discuss now, and I'd like us to touch it in further discussion. We believe that the State's Attorney's Office should not put into this whole story, but that judges and presidents of the courts should be so teamed up with knowledge and experience that they simply do it themselves. Otherwise, we have an additional complication of the entire system that is inefficient anyway. Anticipating this debate on this report, we also asked the Ministry of Justice for some statistics, and that's exactly what we got from the e-script system. We specifically requested data on the average duration of civil litigation for first-degree municipal and commercial courts. The ministry has provided information telling us that civil litigation is going on an average of less than 1,000 days. More specifically for municipal courts in 2019, it is 963 days or 2 years, 7 months and 21 days of official data, and we are talking about averages of 942 days, i.e. Two years and seven months. These data are selectively selected, yet important because they show how much it really takes for Croatia to resolve a civil rights dispute arising from, for example, a contractual relationship or someone outside of a contractual relationship such as damage. I'm interested in my colleagues and colleagues. Do you think these numbers I've presented are acceptable to you? What do you think our entrepreneurs say? Mr. Sessa says it's a mantra, and I took out the data from 76 pages of structure 8.4 where exactly you can see which unsolved courts are over 7 years since 2017 have increased 30%. Mr. Sessa says it's a mantra. What do potential investors think? It seems to me, and I have some experience in this business that a serious entrepreneur or investor will still go to another country with his investment. Mr. Sessa thinks it's a mantra. I have to admit that this statistic is actually pretty bad considering Singapore where I lived. For a small country located on the open market in the brutal competition in which all countries compete for each investment, these are actually data deterring and we must all be aware of that in the legislative authority and government, but also of the judicial authority. I think in the next period, we're all gonna have to sit together at the table and see how we keep moving in the judiciary because they're the same and they're too small and too slow. We need an effective legislative framework, we need educated judges with authority, not political figures. We need to digitise and electronicise communications in the judiciary, and we need to do it urgently. Finally, we need to refresh the justice system with new people. And now I'm coming to a very important part. If you talk to people in court today, everyone will tell you how underrated the court officials, court counselors or professional associates are, however, it is the people who were looking for to finish the Law School, they have completed the judicial exam after which many go to psychotherapy for reasons that are enormously difficult, and you can't see benefits from that and today this court counselor who didn't answer the question because it seems to me that neither Articles 93 nor 95, but not how much wages these court counselors have, so those who are bloody working in court daily make decisions in concrete cases have a salary of 5 to 6,000 nets, a coefficient of 1.5 and all with little or no chance of becoming a judge someday. Why? Because Mr. Sessa, with his proposal, will bring the state's attorney's office and, of course, reward the presidents of courts who don't do their job, and they're waiting for the court's advisors to make progress, and the good ones, they're doing their best. In the past, competitions for court practitioners, you know that the older ones and advisors have caused the stampede, and they are young lawyers, and today almost no one wants it anymore. There they are in Ireland at the Platfone 61, but Mr. Sessa says it's mantra. Well, here's 400,000 greetings from outside the country. And finally, and I would end up with that, today in the assembly there should be a debate on the report of the state's chief attorney, who, unfortunately, has been delayed for objective reasons. However, this report combined with this outlines a very important picture. To begin there, you can see as much as the state itself as an entity in many disputes fills the judicial system, visible from the report. There you can read how the system of peaceful dispute resolution with the state failed or how wrong policies produced hundreds or thousands of additional disputes. Dear everyone, we have a lot of work to do and we need to get serious, the judiciary is the key ingredient of every rule of law that is economically successful. The proof is, say, Singapore, cosmetics doesn't help anymore, we need a major remont of the justice system. Is that mantra as Mr. Sessa says or the reality of our system that we all need to change including all three levels of government I leave on your hearts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21596	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Miroslav Škoro will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21597	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Dr. Mrcela, a respected secretary of state, Martinovic, I also wanted to welcome the respected Mr. Bačić because today, shouting at the speaker of the assembly, interrupted her as Mrs. Oreshkovic spoke, showing that he was also an important factor in commanding those who chair the session. So, colleagues and colleagues according to EU and Council of Europe reports, the Croatian judiciary holds the sixth place among EU members on the inflow of cases. Despite the rate of settlement of the case over 100%, which is such thanks to the possibility and that the proceedings pending in accordance with the Rules of Procedure are presented to the resolutions, we hold 5 seats in the length of the litigation proceedings before municipal and commercial courts. Dimming the real state with a high rate of resolution can best be demonstrated by the fact that Croatia is in second place in the EU according to the number of pending litigation cases. I would like to point out that these data from the EU and the Council of Europe relate to the situation with 2018 completed, however, I do not see that the data presented in the report of the President of the Supreme Court for 2019 indicate a significant improvement as the resolution rate in 2019 is lower than the rate in 2018. So, what kind of report is this? Each report has its quantitative and qualitative part. This is mostly quantitative. I had to investigate and present the above information myself because I was unable to identify any key problem of Croatian courts from the reports of the President of the Supreme Court to the Croatian Parliament. The report presented to us presents a set of statistical indicators that, by generating data from the e-script information system in the Ministry of Justice, produce an external provider of this service at the end of the year. Not a single piece of information that has been shown even the descriptive ones has been put in the context of real problems and the needs of Croatian courts. It states that the EU's most burdensome courts lack 172 judges, over 200 advisers and over 500 different officials and tenants. The problem is simply solved by the call for tenders, but nowhere in the report states that things are a problem that almost every job previously approved by the Ministry of Justice, so there is no opinion on co-operation with the ministry in the staffing of the system. I do not find any opinion on any irregularities in the appointment of judges of senior courts pointed out by the Constitutional Court and also recorded in the European Commission's report on the rule of law for 2020, and I do not find an opinion on the slowness of these proceedings carried out by the State Judiciary Council. In the context of the long-term nature of the proceedings, the report shall provide information on the surveillance carried out by senior courts of the work of judges in unsolved cases. I do not refer anywhere in the report to the execution of the decision of the European Court of Human Rights or the Constitutional Court which has established a breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and has been ordered to resolve the cases within 6 months. There is no record of how many requests for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time the Presidents of the courts have accepted, how many cases have been ordered to complete the proceedings within a specified time limit and if those deadlines are respected. No information on the number of phasing-out procedures initiated in the light of the phasing out of the decision taken in the procedure for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time has been provided. I also don't find any concrete data on the rate of solving those key litigation cases older than 5, 10, 15 and even 20 years. The report praises the reportedly significant drop in the number of these cases before municipal courts on average at a three-year level of 6%, which means that it is only 2% on average. The report does not mention any measures taken to address this problem, nor does it suggest this home in which legislative changes can help address these problems. Instead, we have a general note on the increased inflow of new litigation cases of individual consumer disputes with banks that I do not see relevant since these cases have already been resolved in advance by the rulings made in the collective dispute. Furthermore, we are correctly shown in the graph of the length of proceedings before different courts, but I do not find any reference to the President of the Supreme Court to the fact that the appeal procedure before the county courts takes longer than the entire proceedings before municipal courts in which the evidence is being conducted and the witnesses are being heard, and that, despite the random allocation of cases to all the county courts, there is still an absolute recordr with as much as 2 to 7 times more unsolved cases than the other county courts, the County Court in Zagreb. There is no reference to the fact that in the High Commercial Court key for Croatian entrepreneurs and the economy, the procedure takes an average of 5 times longer than the proceedings at first-degree commercial courts, and twice as long as the appeal proceedings in the county courts. Finally, no reference is made to the fact that according to the length of the proceedings and the number of pending cases, the absolute record of the Supreme Court, whose president is with us today, is absolute. In this context, I therefore do not find any report by the President of the Supreme Court on concrete measures taken at the County Court in Zagreb, the Visko Commercial Court and the Supreme Court for the reduction of the backlogs. When, in the context of a criminal trial, this House is less interested in the decision-making of the case-law of the panel, because the ordinary maneuvering of the Rules of Procedure, by showing the resolution of the latter cases within the system of e-scriptions, comes to the fact that almost every more complex criminal procedure is shown twice before the appeal phase of the procedure, which artificially creates an impression of the effectiveness of the criminal courts. In the same way, it is manipulated by the data on the duration of the proceedings by taking the criminal proceedings to phases and for each phase of duration, the duration is shown separately, so the report does not show the actual duration of the criminal proceedings from its beginning to the finality of law before the county or Supreme Court. What this home certainly interests is precisely this total length of criminal proceedings and not any other, we are not interested in the effectiveness of punishing a young man who drives a motorcycle without registration plates but is interested in the efficiency of the department of county courts who decide on cases of the jurisdiction of USKOK and the department of war crimes. We are interested in the reasons for the length of proceedings in these departments and the measures that the Presidents of the Court have taken to address the problem, but there is no question about it in this report. I also thanked for the data on material expenditures, but I noticed that in the country of overloaded and inefficient justice, the report addressed nothing to the problem of low investment in the education of judges, information systems and inappropriate judicial fees policy, and was not even warned about the fact that in the previous judge of the Supreme Court's civil court department, practically worked free of charge because the legislator failed to prescribe court fees for review. Nowhere has the problem of the inaccessibility of information on services provided by the system and the failure to publish the case law directly warned by the European Commission. The President of the Supreme Court shall appoint this high house on the proposal of the President of the Republic. The purpose of this report is not to collect in one place the numbered data generated by the information service providers e-list because it is regularly for interested statisticians that the Ministry of Justice does. With this report, if the President of the Supreme Court is truly independent, he can, should and must warn the MPs who chose him what we are doing wrong in the area of legislative changes. It is also necessary to warn the Government of the majority of the quality of justice relations and of the executive authority on which it depends in terms of the initiation of legislative changes, staff filling and financing of the system. So, as long as the report of the Supreme Court President does not warn of the fundamental problems of the judiciary that reduce its efficiency and accessibility to citizens and not that it is concrete proposals how to resolve them, but it is a mere copy of the glue statistics and we do not care that we have 76 hands in the air and will pass, the Home Movement Club cannot accept such a report. Since I have a minute and a 19 left, and I am the author of the song "The Court of Justice" I want to say one more thing. When a question has been raised about the protection of the right to trial within the reasonable time limit that the Presidents of the Courts, thanks to modern technology, here I have to tell you that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court, you said there is not one, its number is U-3A2732/20 since 23 September of this year, and the applicant is Nada Tabajin from Osijek, so here it can help to speed up this whole dispute a little bit because it takes too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21598	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSLS and Reformers on behalf of whom the respected representative Natalija Martincevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21599	The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, Deputy, State Secretary, Honorable counterparts and fellow MPs, the EU, as well as the citizens of Croatia themselves, are perceived as a country subject to corruption. Many indicators suggest that it is systemic corruption that pervades local self-government, public companies and state institutions, and systemic corruption as we know it is destroying the state. The corruption is understated by the mildly ineffectiveness of the judiciary in the process of exposed corruption, and highlighted when it comes to the prosecution of state officials. The processes followed by the public and through which they evaluate the judiciary as well as the overall situation in society, with the fight against corruption, lasts for 10 years and more. Understandably, it would be in these processes, in principle, of general prevention, that citizens are affected but above all by officials with the goal of abandoning future corruption. But these long - term judicial processes, unfortunately, send a message that political influence indictees can invariably get away with the fines they deserve. As I am a citizen of the city of Varazdin, as well as two of my colleagues here in the assembly, I will set an example right out of my city. The mayor of Varazdin Ivan Chehok was arrested on 9.6.2011, with the whole media spectacle going on. He was taken to Remetinec. Processes started. After some time against the Czech Republic, we received 4 confirmed indictments all for damage to the city of Varazdin in terms of total value of more than 100 million kuna. After eight years, it was a first-degree procedure, 8 years after one indictment, that Mr. Chehok, 19.7.2018, was wrongly sentenced to a prison sentence of 2 years. After that, the court has not reached a final verdict today. So from 19.7.2018 to here today is 3.12.2020. 2.5 years. What do you say? And for three charges, there will be no more indemnity for 10 years. So, nothing zero. In the meantime, Chehok ran in the 2017 elections, he won the elections because the citizens, regardless of the millions he was rightly accused of, thought that if a man was guilty, he would probably have been convicted within 10 years. And that absurd goes on, he won the elections and now on those same contracts for which the defendant decides to waive the right to appeal on behalf of the city in these disputes, potentially affecting his legal position on the one hand, and exposes citizens to additional possible illegal and harmful actions for the city on the other. At this time, the Czech Republic is proposing integrated settlements dealing with exactly those disputes for which both the accused and the inadmissible sentence has been sentenced to prison and which, by the way, is owed by the city of Varazdin at the moment for 62 million kuna. Given that the verdicts, or in this case, are four confirmed indictments, verdicts, or in the light of the matter, the most normal person prepares himself for the next local elections in the 5th month following the year. To be perfectly clear, we here are not just talking about the Czechok I just cited him as an example because he's from my town, but there are a whole series of former state officials, and in the context of the upcoming local elections, we have a single mayor, and a series of mayors and mayors who are in a similar position. You remember at the very beginning of our term of office, we have removed the immunity of two MPs who are also mayors. Acceleration of the process can be achieved through various systemic and comprehensive changes, however, if we want to make a quick and quality change, thus sending a strong message to both the public and potential perpetrators of high corruption, which sucks out public money, we must ensure an adequate speed of trial immediately. Therefore, the People's Party of Reformists will refer to the parliamentary procedure a proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Procedure Act. This law suggests that in the first phase, this more appropriate speed of the trial should be for the most socially dangerous acts, so it is from the jurisdiction of the USKOK, which is being prosecuted by state officials, judges, state lawyers and their deputies, as well as the president and members of the administration of public companies and companies owned by local self-government. That category of people has public money and has various privileges, and I think it would be good to provide them with the privilege of a quick trial. The quick trial of course is useful for the state, society and for the defendants themselves, since almost all the defendants claim to be innocent of assuming that it is precisely in their interest to prove and judge it as soon as possible because it should be. The proposal for a law further provides for the acceleration of procedures from the USKOK domain for those persons, regardless of whether or not they resigned in the meantime, the criminal proceedings would be conducted with the application of this law. The second extremely important thing that this law introduces is the obligation for a second-degree court to take the file for appeal in such a criminal case to make a decision within a year of the receipt of the file. The third newspaper in the bill of law is that these criminal cases are subject to a first-degree decision on the grounds of appeal and return the case to a first-degree court for retrial only once. It is interesting that this is done in civil proceedings, but it is not in criminal proceedings, and I am sure that there is no one other than, of course, interested persons, who does not realize that it is necessary to prevent the infinite detachment of the process by returning second-degree rulings to first-degrees and most of all without a clear explanation that first-degree courts would refer to further action all with the aim of course that the decision can be returned once and for as long as it goes. If the second-degree court considers that the ruling should also be abolished pursuant to this proposal of the law, then it is under the obligation to carry out the procedure itself and make a decision. Finally, this bill will also apply to the procedures which started before the entry into force of this law, but which are not legally completed. It has been very significant about this already today is today's cover of the Morning List which speaks about your letter sent just a few days after we presented these amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure to the public. The letter is from the President of the Supreme Court to which he informs the county courts, municipal courts and the High Violent Court of Justice that he has asked the Chief State Attorney Zlata Hrvoje Šipek to order the lower state attorneys that the Presidents of the Courts and directly more presidents of the courts, but also the Office of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, inform each case from the criminal branch of the court, regardless of the stage in which the proceedings are held, in which there have been no proceedings for 6 months longer, which would lead to the end of the proceedings. The letter further states that the state’s chief attorney accepted this, the initiative and the similar order sent to lower state lawyers. In each such case, a report on individual actions will be requested from the judge and the reason why there are no procedural actions for more than 6 months. We are all aware of the unquestionable fact that it could and had to be done years ago. On the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Criminal Procedure of the People's Party Reformists in communication with the Minister of Justice and Administration Mr Malenic, a meeting was held with the Secretary of State from the Resord Ministry as well as with a number of prominent legal experts. We have also informed the president of the state and the prime minister and, therefore, it is near the end that the wording is respected by all relevant suggestions. We know that the initiatives are under way to amend the entire Penal Code as well as other related laws, for example, on the USKOK we all welcome it, although we are aware of the fact that the current practice was let's set ourselves large long-term goals with a key goal of doing nothing. For this, a very good example is the expansion of the circle of persons subject to the USKOK Act, without a degree with the final result of disabling its efficiency. If these proposals are not in the process by the end of January, we will seek the support of all political parties for putting our legal proposal in an emergency procedure. And lastly, I am going back to the beginning of the debate, so I ask you directly to answer whether by virtue of your responsibility and authority as President of the Supreme Court, you will allow the city of Varazdin to continue to be a city case and whether the citizens of the city of Varazdin, after 10 years of the indictment, will find out whether our city, the money and our money are being decided by a criminal or an innocent man. As you said in response to the replica, you've met and you've taken certain steps to see if that means that a powerful verdict after 10 years will finally be passed before the local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21600	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic, who will present the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21601	Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs, Mr. Sessa and the worst thing that could happen to you before the debate on this report is that you were initially defended by Mr. Branko Bačić, a man who is a member of a political party convicted of corruption is also a man who personally carried around a bag of corrupt money. And the fact that this report will be followed by this parliamentary majority of slappings is the entire Croatian judiciary. I had no doubt that you'd immediately be injuring the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the introduction of this report to me personally is one of the biggest challenges during this term of office. How to say what in the spirit of truth should be said, while remaining within the limits that the law ultimately imposes on both decency and home education. The law stipulates that, when taking a position, the Croatian Parliament will not debate or take views on the state of individual court cases or on the work of individual judges, nor will the independence and independence of judges and judicial authorities be questioned in any other way. So, on the state of justice, we can only generally and in principle, so that's what we'll do. We will talk about a breach of trust that is certainly one of the problems of our judiciary, but not the only one and not the greatest. By confidence in the judiciary, we are at the bottom of the EU countries, and I will repeat what I keep pointing out that this problem cannot even begin to be solved unless the key people and the competent authorities set up within the justice system themselves see that the problem exists and they do not really understand what their role is in solving the problem and do not know how certain problems should be solved at all. Therefore, it is not the biggest problem of the perception of corruption and even doubts that the highest representatives of the judicial system are obedient to the current government and its parliamentary majority. The problem is much longer and harder. The problem is that the awareness of key people in the judiciary about how it should be built and protected by its independence and efficiency undeveloped. And above all, people who care about these goals need to do so. Unfortunately, you, Mr. Sessa, are not one of those people, and the most difficult words that moral feeling tells me that I have to say for this speaker is the conclusion that the first problem of our judiciary is incompetence, sub-capacitation and indifference of the people who lead the judiciary. This report is proof of this, this report to the Croatian Parliament could only be referred to by a man who does not care about justice at all. Therefore, the report is an obligation that the President of the Supreme Court must fulfil once a year, and it is explicitly prescribed by law that the President of the Supreme Court may draw attention to the state and functioning of the judicial authority, the organisational problems in courts and the shortcomings in the legislation and make proposals to improve these problems. This possibility should also mean both the obligation and the incentive for the President of the Supreme Court, which contains this report, nothing, the display of blank tables and statistics. What Mr. Sessa answered to certain questions during the replicas was to be contained in this report, but much more detailedly. You could have said a lot more about digitization and how to change the architecture of the process, you had to answer the question of who are the most modern. Who are the people holding the Croatian judiciary by paying them 5 million kuna and 800,000 euro annually? So, the truth of the will on page 130 is listed some 10 points of the proposal, but when reading their essence, it is clear that these proposals are put in form, that they are empty and barren. And to be clear, I'm not against what you said on that one page, I'm not against improving the delivery system and improving the salary in the judiciary, although I support it, but is that 10 sentences all you had to say? I don't dispute that the report is a lot of statistical data, but your task, Mr. Sessa, was that on the basis of that information you are calling you to present your analysis, your conclusions, your proposals. This report should contain a passage explaining what the main organisational problems in courts are and how they should be addressed. I'm afraid not. In view of the tasks and powers of the Supreme Court, this report should also have a passage which analyzes the biggest observed shortcomings in the legislation itself and what individual judges are thinking, and so do you, as you propose to the Croatian Parliament, which is what you are asking the Croatian Parliament to do, how to better resolve poorly designed solutions in certain laws. Unfortunately, though, there is not a single word in this account. The President of the Supreme Court is embodying the highest representative of the judicial authority, so he can be held responsible for the situation described in that report or responsible for the situation in the judiciary as we all see him, which we are all aware of. And therefore, it bothers that you are constantly trying to convince both the Croatian Parliament and the public that there are no problems in the Croatian judiciary. In the introduction, you set out how public perception and public assessment of the effectiveness of the judicial authority were shown only through several court proceedings in which decisions were taken which the public did not take, either because of the decisions themselves, or because of the persons involved in the process. Indeed, Milan Bandic, Nadan Vidosevic, Tomislav Horvatinčić, how many should I list? So the dysfunctional and ineffectiveness of our judiciary obviously exist. But this report does not detect anything, nor does it do it in any way. This is the worst report I've read in HS. Furthermore, the President of the Supreme Court, by law, is the highest body of the judicial administration, which in itself means that it oversees the work of all courts in the Republic of Croatia by taking into account data on their work and direct control of the work of a particular court. The President of the Supreme Court may, under his authority, issue binding instructions to the presidents and judges of the lower courts. Then why did you do this parallel control if this memo that was published in one week was true and credible? You shouldn't have done that. Furthermore, the Supreme Court shall ensure uniform application of the right and equality of all in its application. Why didn't you describe in more detail this report and come up with a proposal for a digital format for reviewing court practice that would be available and easily searched for our citizens? Thus, we may achieve equality and predictability, as well as control of those who judge. Should I quote examples of the inequality of our case law when “for a home ready” is acceptable, when it is not? When can the Commission decide on a conflict of interest and when there is no authority to judge a breach of the principle of action? How many times has the State's Attorney's Office reached out to the Institute of Legal Affairs? Is it true what it says in that same week that such powers were served when it was meant to bring down not only the decision of the commission but also the decision of the administrative courts related to the former President of the Constitutional Court of Jasnik Omrej? I know something about it because I made the first decision against her. So, you didn't say much about the functioning of the system, you didn't say much, you didn't say much about judges' responsibilities, you only listed statistics that 12 tight procedures were launched in the past year, that so many and ended, 9 pecuniary penalties, 2 reprimands, 2 resolutions, 5 fines. Well, couldn't you say at least 2-3 words about what it was really about? The judiciary in which they could trust should be transparent, not conspiratory. What's this about? A clean, clear and unequivocal standard as considered appropriate, which is inappropriate for the conduct of any judicial duty would send a message not only to the HS and the judges but to the public, to all, that the judiciary is consciously important to preserve its impartiality and that it is only able to recognize and just clean the weeds out of its ranks, but it does not seem so. If we want to restore severe breach of trust in the judiciary, the public must see that all irregularities within the judicial system are detected in due time and that the competent authorities react to them in time, decisively and clearly. Now, if the credible data that can be found on the website of the competent authorities seems to have nothing to do last year's ethical commission. The last decisions date back to 2018, and then there were no more than 3, so from one to three-four, to the top of chapter 5 of the Ethics Commission decisions. And what I'm noticing is that their decisions are anonymous. It sends messages that the judiciary actually hides its dirty laundry instead of washing it. And hiding and protecting those who have broken ethical rules demoralises the system, how judges who are honorable and who are working hard, who are doing their job well, and thus sends a message to the public that justice to its ethical principles is too much and not true, it is a sign of weakness. And with a weak, inefficient and demoralised judiciary in which citizens do not trust Croatia cannot move forward. Unfortunately, Mr. Sess, I must conclude that you are one of the reasons that makes you weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21602	We've got one breach from the Rules of Procedure, two injuries from the Rules of Procedure, three, I don't see a third there, Maria Jelkovac, Damir Habian. It's Mrs. First, so you're the first? I don't know this one. We'll respect that. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238. Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Devereaux. Oreshkovic lies and insults, whether out of ignorance or not he wants to know, but it is tragic, in this way he performs. Ma'am. Oreshkovic, I told you, you are still in political diapers, and you have already damaged the Croatian political system, in 3 days you changed 4 parties. ... As a relatively unknown lawyer of modest knowledge, you are headed by a state institution and all your important decisions by the Croatian judiciary have been annulled. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why you've been demoted from this place not for our personal reasons but for your ignorance. [[Intruder: Thank you]] And I ask you to keep an eye on this payphone in the future. [[/Intruder: Thank you beautiful, thank you beautiful.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21604	I don't know which time, you'll all get the word, I don't know which time I say that. 238 does not regulate truthfulness, and therefore I am forced to give you a warning and I will give everyone a warning to those who, who give replicas practically. Ma'am. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21605	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Oreshkovic has been injured by an article. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because in her presentation, she insulted the MPs. A colleague here plays a moral vertical, and it would be good to explain to us, and to the Croatian public, how is it that between 5,000 lawyers, right out of the hat, for the business of Janaf and without a public competition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21606	If, uh, I didn't hear the first part, I didn't hear those words. Ma'am. You're nuts, you spoke in an offensive way about MPs, I ask you? You can do it again if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21607	Shall we go through the video, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21608	No, no, no, you tell me, you're a tape of yourself, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21609	No, no, maybe I live in a parallel reality or in a parallel reality lives Mr. Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21610	Are you offended or not offended?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21611	No, I absolutely didn't hurt anything, I cited the fact that all of Croatia knows, it's not an insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21612	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21613	But what Mr. Bacic said about me was insulting.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21614	No, no, that's not a replica you'll get a warning. It's not your turn now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21615	But you asked me to say something, so I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21616	You're not up yet, Mr. Habian is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21617	... Art. Article 238(1), point 5 and point 6, therefore, the demeaning, insult of other representatives and its conduct deviates from the general rules. [[Specially enabled.]] So, Mrs. Schneider. Oreskovic, as a lawyer, is well aware and should know what legal persons are responsible for and which correlations between those with the guilt of the responsible persons. So you have this analogy, the management of companies is guilty of automatically responsible legal persons in this way, it's not the first time you've insulted all of us sitting here and not having absolute ties to what you're talking about, and it can be a real shame for you. This isn't your first time, you're insulting all of us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21618	There's nothing left for me but for all of you, including Mrs. Crescent. I'm warning Oreshkovic, I don't think I can do it any other way. But now it's going to be Madame. Oreshkovic will also have all the violations of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21619	So before I hurt the Rules of Procedure, I have to say that you came directly to me and asked me a question, and then for my answer you can't give me a warning because otherwise I wouldn't have answered my word, I would have waited for my breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21620	No, I asked you a question and you answered the question, and then you went your way so you got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Go on now, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21621	So, he's injured. In 238, most MPs who have even answered the word repeatedly demean me on one subject and on the same subject. - Mrs. Crescent. I'm going to invite you to coffee, so I'm going to explain some things to you so you know what's waiting for you in the damages lawsuit, so you don't have to be surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21622	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Nuts. So you don't get nervous about all that coffee? You invited me for coffee, too. We'll talk about it. You've received prior to your breach of the Rules of Procedure there's no reason for me to give you another time. Nothing, Mrs. Sandra Bencic in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21623	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court and fellow Members and colleagues. So, I'm going to talk about some things that I don't understand from the report and that I think this report should contain, and that it might get the support of our parliamentary representatives. You saw my question about the claim that SOA was in the 2016 report. as one of the risks to national security detected and corrupt judges, the Supreme Court President said that such a claim did not exist in the report and that the SOA Director had told him personally. I have to say that the question was then shown and then the Minister of Justice who confirmed in interviews that the claim existed, but he interpreted it in a way that he said it was actually good news because it means that not all judges are corrupt but only here are 20. My question was aimed at the President of the Supreme Court telling us because I think it is our duty to say that, which are systemic solutions within the system of justice to detect corruption or corrupt risks, and then what action is in terms of their reduction and ultimately eliminating these risks from the judicial system. We did not get an answer to that, and I believe that it is precisely one of our key roles to oversee the work of the judiciary and the fight against corruption within the judiciary itself. As you know, many of you have been pulling the tape with Judge Garac for two years now, it is a judge who, as part of his candidacy at the Supreme Court, has received a negative assessment of SOA for security risk and therefore the DSV refused to choose it. She complained about the decision because she had no access to SOA's explanation and the Constitutional Court gave her the right to do so. Afterwards, it was re-runned on the same basis, but this time the Constitutional Court has re-ruled the decision twice because it has not been re-established by most DSV members. My question is, will Judge Garac, at the end of the day for whom this security risk has been identified, come to the Supreme Court? And what does the President of the Supreme Court do on this matter or how, at the end of the day, the person who came to the Supreme Court, although her security risk has been identified, how does she control and mitigate that risk? I know it's not yet, but there's a good chance it will. Twice, the constitutional court has torn down the DSV's decision not to recommend it because of the security risk of SOA. Just to say when we are with the DSV in the EU report on the rule of law, it is precisely a matter of DSV independence and their ability to choose judges independently and to advance judges, as one of the problems. This is precisely one of the problems, that DSV does not have enough independence and independence in making those decisions. Why does it matter? Well, it is important because the level of perceived independence of the judiciary in Croatia is very low, although it is the lowest in the EU for years in a row. Therefore, only 24% of Croatian citizens see judicial independence as good or very good. Also according to the 2020 Eurobarometer survey. The main reason the general public believes that courts and judges are not independent enough is the impression that the government and politicians are intruding into their work or putting pressure on them. That's the impression. My question is, what is the President of the Supreme Court on this impression doing to confirm this or the impression as a fact that there are problems or no such problems they do not exist are not a fact. In order to detect these problems within the judicial system, the entire opposition of this home has proposed an investigative committee aimed at detecting key, systematic, corrupt risk points in the investigation and investigation procedures and judicial proceedings in corruption affairs. This investigation committee will reject the ruling majority, it has already announced, among other things, that it has also been used as an argument that we have suggested that both former and current state lawyers or presidents of key courts in the Republic of Croatia are being heard. And they perceive it as a problem. The EU's report on Parliament's research committees in Europe, which came out in the spring of this year, says that the vast majority of countries have investigative committees covering hearings and judicial officials, Poland is one of the exceptions where there is no such thing, some countries have a limited 2, 3, all others are most normal to listen to judicial officials. There is, however, a trend in the growth of judicial officials' hearings by parliaments. There are reports about this, therefore there is evidence, and we therefore have an investigative commission which we did not find in the report of the President of the Supreme Court to identify and tell the public what are the risk points and what are the corrupt risks within the judicial system. The State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council, as I have already said, have difficulties caused by amendments and additions to the laws where their role in the selection of judges and state lawyers has been reduced. Also, since the Constitutional Court has, of course, asked and it is okay that there is transparency on the basis of which certain assessments are given and on which basis someone is elected, however, who if we decide to give the right advantage to self-regulation within the profession and that the profession chooses then we must let them do so. Also, one of the major problems that we face in the work of the Supreme Court is the issue of the role of the Supreme Court in equating court practice in Croatia. One of the basics and preconditions for equating court practice horizontally among all would be the publication of first-degree and second-degree judgments which again, according to the rule of law report, remain very limited, the rate of publication of judgments on the Internet is the lowest in the EU. So that's where we're the worst. It's really nothing but a little investment and political will, and we can't say that we have some major obstacles. Despite progress in solving the oldest cases, the number of pending cases and the length of proceedings in civil and commercial courts remains the largest in the EU. The average length of litigation and civil proceedings was 855 days, and it is also extremely worrying about the length of the executive proceedings. And when all this is said and very often when journalists and some legal experts question the Supreme Court or the judiciary in general and criticise them and ask for an explanation of our defeating, defeating results at EU level, then very often, especially journalists get complaints for slander. The defamation charges when they are directed against judicial officials if you have noticed they have particularly high figures, twice as much as they are in other cases for slander, the European Court of Human Rights noted, and clearly said in the case of a ruling of the National Journal against the Republic of Croatia that criticism of judicial officials is part of freedom of speech and that it is part of a democratic society and that it is not necessary to restrict it in a democratic society and that it is not necessary to impose 50,000 kunas on the slander of the judicial officer is excessively and too much. Is that what we do, do we implement this judgment in a way that prevents such actions from happening? It's not like we still have cases like that and those kind of punishments. GRECO, therefore, recommends made by GRECO concerning the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia have not been fully adopted and assesses that there are still problems and that there is no stronger role of the DSV. It has also not progressed anywhere with a recommendation on the publication of property cards by judges. It also exists as a recommendation for the selection of the attorney general and for the state's attorney council and its independence in the selection of a state's attorney, and we haven't fixed that either. So, all this together when we see what we haven't done, and the other bodies outside recommend us, and then we reject our investigative commission that would detect those risks in the system. We must say that it is clear that the political will of the majority is behind the state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21624	The Croatian Sovereigns Club will now present Mr. Zeljko Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21625	The Honorable President, Vice-President, Deputy Secretary, from this report that we have already had for more than 2.5 months, you who have read it, and I hope that all of us have received a collection of information that is informative, which points to difficulties in material finance business, organisational, residential, informational all that our valuable and very important judicial authority meets daily, and that is good, it is good to know that besides 1,663 courts are missing 229, let us know that we lack 1,028 chairs and 250 tables, let us know that we lack writers in so many numbers and scanners, and that is important, let us know that there is a leaky roof of buildings here in the municipal civil court in Zagreb, let us know that we are short of 1,720 judicial judges, so let us know that we are missing writers in so many numbers and scanners, and that it is important that we know that we know that there is somewhere undermind be a roof of the municipal court in 220. These are terrible numbers and you don't have it filled out and that's the problem with your functioning amongst other things. But you did not put the key things in that report of vital and capital importance, terrible importance for the Croatian public, and also for us parliamentary representatives because we can and must help you, and you did not refer to criminal policy at all, to the summary of judicial decisions means judicial judgments, whether convicted, whether liberating, whether rejected in statistics. It is not a secret, it is not concrete data that you are not intruding absolutely into a concrete file, but you are giving a message to the Croatian public what to do and to assess the key issue, which is in line with the constitutional purpose of your existence and the laws on courts and criminal principles which is the purpose of punishment, where and how far it has been achieved that the general which is a special prevention is achieved. That's the essence of the story that you should have put in your report. Fortunately, we have received dear friends and parliamentary representatives, the Croatian public answer to that question possibly by accident, but thank God thanks to the report of the chief state attorney who gave us all the details. He did the job for yours, you can thank him for me and I thank him on the basis of his report I can now refer to your report. So the condition is next, so in 2019. In total, taking your courts in criminal matters, about 14,191 judgments of which dear friends are even, as much as 70% probationary sentence, 23 and 30% is prison sentence, and of that prison sentence as much as 50%, and varying from 30 to 50% from work for the common good. The fines have slightly smaller and parallel fines. It's on the principle level. However, when we look at USKOK statistics on jumping objects, which are the most complex, most serious crimes our repressive legal justice system is facing, there is a state of fear for every layman, let alone for an expert, so I will quote you, since 294 judgments were passed in 2019. the jumping courts on the basis of the demands of our state attorneys in USKOK as many as 216 have been agreed, of these agreedly remember that 73% means the party who is the defendant in the most difficult cases, I'm saying they're not minors, they're not municipal state attorneys, okay. Now, since 294 convictions for 184 persons, as many as 95 people have been fined in prison for the sake of general well-being at the same time. Then, more than 96 people in those jumping cases, more than 52% of those convictions, 7 for fines, etc. Now what does that tell us? Of course, we can't in these five minutes give an analysis of a penological system of courts' relationship to fines, sanctions require a studio discussion of high-level people, and I don't doubt that I'm not exactly following up on a round table, but that's what I need. However, we can say again the position of the DORH, and the DORH in its report says only that it does not say by begging you the courts' criminal policy is too mild, the state's attorney says, it does not say an individual. But here's a chance to see them and the state's attorneys in the jumping cases deny themselves because they're also going to an agreed verdict, the judge then most often confirms it, the only thing he can do. For what? because statistics and the DORH and the judiciary are reduced. So this is where we slave the principle of economicity and efficiency of up-to-date conduct, and on the other hand, the fundamental principle of justice respect and achievement of the purpose of punishment, absolutely, absolutely neglected. That's not good, and it should certainly be fixed by my humble court, and that's not what you're talking about. Now, you've been telling us about DSV that's good, we've seen there that it works, I don't know, 12 tight procedures have been initiated and you've punished them both with fines and reproofs for not doing their job well, etc., these some of you solved and one or two cases are being handled this for crimes etc. The general impression is clear to you, what as an opposition and as a Croatian public we expect from you is that, in any case, to raise the level of satisfaction of the human race, Croatian society, the Ministry of Justice, this HS, must invest financial resources to make you do so as soon as possible and to be effective in favour of justice and justice and the achievement of constitutional principles. You've had a billion and 311 million kunas in a row, now in this budget 200, for 2021 we've significantly raised that. I see you're appealing to raise the salary 30% quite certainly, that's right, but there's a crisis, 30 billion we're the one in the budget deficit, how we're going to do it I don't know, Godspeed. You should, anyway, you should do it. And what I would suggest is that you supplement the following reports with certain details that are within your jurisdiction. I'd like to know how much you've approved in this year's request to the attorney general to question the crown witnesses, witnesses to the penitent? It's the most complex mechanism that has the state's attorney's office in the fight against the most serious form of organised crime, Mr. Mrcela knows that very well. But we don't have the information on that, it's statistics. We want to know if there's an entire legal, constitutional account system, what? For breaking into mob organizations. As many of these cases as I don't know, that information needs to be known, it's gonna be important. In any case, I want this Croatian judiciary to function on behalf of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21626	Mr. Drazen Bošnjakovic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21627	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, Deputy President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today is before us, meaning the report on the state of the judicial authority in 2019. And as we can see, the actual debate is very dynamic and the topic is of course extremely and extremely important. And I would say, first of all, that this report, I think it contains all the relevant data based on which we can perceive and see what this situation really is, what trends are, and then according to these conclusions, it would also be very important to give some guidance and make some recommendations that should continue to work for the judiciary to get better. The system of judicial authorities is indeed huge, as we see 66 courts, we see that there are over 8,000 people, 1,700 judges, over 600 judicial advisors, and there are other officials and subsistence officers. And what's particularly important is we see that this system takes over a million and 200 thousand items annually, and as a rule, more than a million and 200 thousand of these items, and it solves them. So I have to say that this is one fact that really needs to be reflected, so many objects received, so many objects worked. That, in any case, I would say, for the aspect of the work of all these people in the system that they are, and doing it in difficult conditions, do it in conditions actually when we see that the perception of the work of the judicial authority is extremely bad, we see it from this debate today, I don't think that this work is worth the way it should be. I'm not saying that there's no room for criticism, of course there's room and that things need to be better and that we should look ahead. But when I hear the words of justice today, then we can only hear that it's early society cancer, that it's one area that's corrupt, where there's crime, that it's the worst segment of society. I'm not sure that these are good epithets and evaluations of a system that receives a million and 200 thousand items a year and solves so many or more of those items annually. So, I'd say we should look at the thing and in relation to what's been going on in the judiciary for the last 10 years and what's going on in the judiciary. We were there just over 10 years ago. begin preparations in fact to conclude Chapter 23 in negotiations to obtain EU membership status and to remember little of these times. I think that at the time of 2010. open negotiations with Chapter 23, where we were the only country that had this chapter, that at the bookshops I think we stood by, no one gave us any chances and chances that we would end it, but we have implemented a number of reforms then and we have carried out numerous, we have taken steps and shown ourselves to other EU members that we deserve the essence of this society. Here I am listening today, the President of the Supreme Court has said one very important fact, which is statistics and these are research by SEPEZ. So, the expert body of the Council of Europe, which numbers 48 countries, which has put Croatia in a state of urgency of resolution, is satisfactory, so in front of some other countries. At the time before the negotiations, when we were preparing for negotiations, there were about a million and a half, a million and 600 thousand unsolved items in Croatia. We're at 480 today, last year we were at 407,000, this is the increase that happened, but we went down. So we didn't do anything in those 10 years. Are many going to say that then the situation was better than it is now, so today we'll probably be on three million unsolveds. This is a situation where you need to work hard, it needs to be put down, of course, more. And what's important, these aren't the data that needs to satisfy us regardless of what SEPEZ said that we, that we don't have such an emergency, we need to be faster, we need to solve the cases not only of those votes, unfortunately those who are objects of public interest on them are actually the basis of perception, this poor perception of the functioning of the judicial authority. That's what's disproportionate and that's what's actually, for me it's not good. We have to deal with the case of those who participate and the small so conditionally to tell people with their problems, with their rights, with requests for the protection of their rights and interests. From this, from these millions and 200,000 items that have been received and which are received here we are in contradiction again, we say no one trusts the judiciary. So these people who came with a motion to court, and that's over a million and 200,000, so they're asking the court to protect them, to protect their rights and interests. From this report for the past year we can see, it is very precise what it speaks of in fact all segments and municipal and commercial and county and administrative courts and high courts and the Supreme Court itself, we see exactly how many cases are received, how many cases are solved, we see what the number of judges is, what the number of officials are, we see statistics all over them. So it's measured and it's measurable. What's very important is how to get out of this crisis, out of this crisis, I'd say identity, it's possible only by successful, even more successful work, by bringing down that number of unsolved cases and what's particularly important, and also by one predictive. We must not allow certain objects to really lead us to fatigue and I do not know how many, and others to be solved. In that sense, and this article today, and this call that the President of the Supreme Court has made regarding cases which have not taken place in 6 months, I welcome it, but I think that this should not only apply to criminal cases, but to all cases in which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia participate in each, therefore not only in criminal matters, but in every case where nothing has been done in 6 months, something must be done. President, that's the President of the Court's business. For me, every president of every court in the Republic of Croatia must take care of it because it is an important segment of good governance of the court. So we need to take care of quality management, put quality presidents in these places, but yet their work must be monitored. There were speeches and about independence, I remember we were at the time of the negotiations we were changing the Constitution to get an independent choice and judges who are independent of who tomorrow when judges don't have to pay anyone back their bills. And that's why we have the State Judiciary Council, where most of them are judges, they choose among themselves, and we have two representatives of the academic community and two representatives of parliament. I think it guarantees independence, I think, that anyone who has some kind of concrete knowledge of this needs to put it on the table and should actually take it out and report it to the authorities. Because as we can see, the State Judiciary Council is making decisions both on penalties and resolutions and on fines, so there are these procedures, but it's been said that everyone is doing some kind of a misdemeanor, that they're all making some kind of mistake, and that none of that is sanctioned. So, in this period since last year 2019, we see that municipal courts have lost a little bit of a step in solving the case, but we have heard this and we have actually seen it from the report that it has increased by hundreds of thousands of simple consumer bankruptcy procedures where we have provided the possibility for our citizens to get out of the blockade. We see that 20 thousand litigation cases are related to, for the Swiss, so these additional courts are 20% more received than they could simply solve, but in other segments, it's much better. Both county and commercial and administrative courts have solved much more than they have received, and we are now on these 480,000 cases that need to be dealt with naturally. What I really think is the way out, education, modernisation, quality management or education, modernization, quality management, awareness, responsibility, so when we go to court that things are predictable and that the process will be short, that it will be spotted, that it will be tried by law and that I will get this just verdict and that is what will actually restore citizens' trust in the judiciary that is particularly important for us here today. Because I repeat, it is very important to reflect the fact that 8,000 people in our courts work and solve over a million and 200,000 cases annually. Thank you very much, we'll support the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21628	Thank you, too. We're done with clubs and now a little less than 15 minutes of city hall ventilation. In 18 and 5 minutes, we'll continue our work. It's 1751 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 18:04 A.M.]] It's Mr. Zeljko Sacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21630	Thank you very much. So, we said Croatian sovereigns in full what we consider in principle, and now I'm just going to look back a little bit on concrete indicators and give a brief analysis. It is a good fact that of all the judgments made in 2019 during that period, state lawyers generally file complaints and 30% of these complaints are about the highest level and type of criminal sanctions, but about 30% of complaints are accepted, but I would also like to stress that a certain number of more than 40% are confirmed by first-degree rulings. That's good, that's a good trend, so in one judicial control, it strengthens that legal certainty. What remains particularly painful for all victims of the Homeland Defense War is a certain indetermination of the Supreme Court's position on the trial in absentia. There we had a few opinions, a few different views that are all together now as far as we can see, but in any case I think that for the sake of justice, so for all others, above all, it should be absolutely possible, regardless of all the other negative effects of the absence trial, that this institute should still be strengthened and intensified for all of that because war crimes do not go out of line so much as it is. In the replica, I was telling you that there are incomprehensible legal effects in the legal system still ecladly inhumane criminally against the fundamental international legal acts that protect human rights and freedoms from the General Declaration of Human Rights and Freedoms until the European Convention at the end of the basic principles of our Constitution, such as that judgment of the Court of Kotar in the Court of '46. where, for your information, I'm surprised you said you weren't familiar, you probably are, but this one you weren't in detail in all of that Croatian Zrin was in that 7th September '43. that by then, 900 residents were killed by the Yugoslav Partisan population, possibly criminal bogeyman. And after that, they passed the verdict, two years later, legalized the massacre and today completely expelled them from their place of residence and banned them from coming to us today in the legal order, prohibiting Croatians from coming to their place to prevent them from disrupting their relations with the local Serb population. It is horrifying, it is unacceptable to live for 30 years in a free, independent Croatian state and we, despite European resolutions on the condemnation of the South-Communist, despite this declaration to the Assembly that was adopted in 2006, despite the Constitution, tolerate it. Exofficio had to be expelled even if the law was passed, even if the law was passed by one article to annul the verdict, unfortunately it existes, existes. Also, as far as our campers are concerned, they are unable to sue the Republic of Serbia, they have no more where, in the Republic of Serbia, of course, it stands or does not move anything, the international process of war damage compensation has not yet come to life, and the question of what will be, these old people, dying, cannot, despite the General Declaration of Human Rights and Freedoms, achieve their fundamental right of civilization from ancient Roman times, continue to be the one who is the damage to demand damages from vermin. Do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21631	Mr. Bull, you asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21632	Thank you very much. A colleague of Sacic, the Croatian judiciary is ineffective in the persecution of war criminals when we see that Vukovar is being trampled by the butchers and those who raped and burned, and that their victims today see them in Vukovar, and even in other parts of Škabrnji, Ervenik, that these people are walking freely in that city, even in the judiciary are those who have been appalled, of course, but they have done huge crimes and no one is doing anything, even when there was a protest in Vukovar to finally launch against crimes, that finally absolutely executive power, most in the assembly have done everything to prevent this event. What do you think it's about? Is it possible that the Wolf came here to hug and make out with him, with the Chetnik?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21633	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21634	I absolutely agree with you that the entire justice system was not at a level that was expected justly from Croatian people in condemnation and judgments against, condemning judgments against war criminals that ended this at the expense of the Croatian people. And the fact that 20,000, more than 20,000 rebels, Chetniks, have been appalled at the same time as 4,900 Croatian high-prisoners, from generals to soldiers, speak for themselves enough, but the same principle of command responsibility has not been passed on to the persecution of the enemy great-serb gang. There's a problem. If, if the Croatian generals were persecuted by objective command responsibility, we have a scale of some 3,000 of them can now be persecuted at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21635	No more replicas. It's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21636	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have a report in front of us for 30 years of the rule of law for which many have given their lives and what we have to do, in which we should believe it is the judiciary. Supreme Court, the judicial authority is responsible for the state of justice. That's what I said in the replica, where the fish are cleaned, from the head. Whoever is responsible for this situation in the judiciary that the businessmen do not want to invest in the Republic of Croatia, do not trust the Croatian judiciary because the processes last for years, years. For what? Therefore, those who formed the foundations of the state sought and called on the judiciary to arrest, locate, transfer, process. And this same man has set up the judiciary, and this same man has put together the judiciary and that's the truth. And that's true. They chased like stray dogs can't even do it here.../incomprehensible/... those who created the foundations of the Republic of Croatia. Crimes and criminals were protected, protected. What are the reasons why people don't have justice? Why is it that one Mr. Sessa who claims that I am in violation of the Rules of Procedure when I say that someone has done damage to the Croatian judiciary, if he has done harm to the Croatian judiciary, he has done it to the Croatian people, he is absolutely harmful. So the judiciary is the basis for democracy and the most important, equally, equal to everything independent of politics. It must mean no matter what, and you know it well. And you are now talking to the Croatian judiciary with missing people, judges, as the people are missing, there are the most judges in Croatia in the EU. How are we missing people? How did you not manifest yourself when the courts were shut down, for example? in Dalmatia, we do not have any municipal court, from Neretva to Krka. And these people don't have the same legal protection, first they don't have enough money to go 300 km from Vrlika to Split and vice versa and drive there. So the best part was not to show yourself about it, but to keep silent about the policy proposal and Minister Bošnjakovic at the time, now the board president, is not here now, I am sorry, who did it unfairly. And you, Mr. Sessa, are guilty of not functioning the system, you can't transfer to the State's Attorney's Office at this point in time, and I have a position on the State's Attorney's Office which I will, in particular, in terms of war crimes, in terms of profit, in terms of economic crime, you're responsible as the Supreme Court president. Your jurisdiction was to decide to be a court, to have the people trust in the court, no trust, and the fish is cleaned from the head of Mr. Sessa. And the warnings of the business attempt and of the chairman not, but Mr. Reiner's attempt to cover up, the silence of parliamentary MPs' deputies is not appropriate. So how is it possible in one club in Zagreb to be together people from the judiciary, from politics, from an economy where the money counter and wherever the bag is being sold, a bag from public procurement that is eligible as well as in my Sinj there are such cases, they can be listed by, strong companies, to be dealing bags, bags, bags, bags, bags, bags. The bag is the most important, the bag, the bag is about the judiciary and the people can't source it and you're responsible, and those responsible are the vermin, whether it's picturesque, not on human level. You are the pests of the Croatian people because the people do not peek at you. There's obviously the most important bag in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21637	Thank you very much. Mr. Troscott was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21638	Dear Mr. Bulj, here's a clear return to today's debate Mr. Sessa has today managed to say that the Croatian judiciary, that it is a mantra to stop the Croatian economy. That's question no. 1. How do you view such a mantra today spoken of by the highest instance of the judicial authority? And second, as you see, in this situation today, this paid article in the morning list is, in your opinion, a coincidence that this paid article in the morning list is just today, when a report of the Supreme Court is being discussed where certain cases of judges are being given in art. In 93 and 95, therefore, in the Law of Courts, it should be done by the Presidents of the Courts. How do you view it today as a single demonstration that something is done, especially by the Supreme Court, who oversees the entire judiciary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21639	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21640	For investors and investors in the Republic of Croatia, why are they running away? Because we have five problems in the Republic of Croatia. The first is the judiciary, the second is the judiciary, the third is the judiciary, the fourth is the judiciary, the fifth is the judiciary. Untrust, judicial intransparency, judicial inequality, length of judicial proceedings, so the judiciary is the basis for the development of the Republic of Croatia. The market, if the judiciary has no trust, who will invest in Croatia? Also, as for corruption itself, clientelism, so imagine, in Janaf, Chief Janafa has his own club, and there are people from the judiciary, from politics, ministers, weights up, money counter, so who's going to invest in Croatia? Who's to blame is asking a question? And it's all just a bag, a bag is the most important It's got nothing to do with the judiciary, the bag, Judas's pacifier. [[/Intruder: ma'am, ma'am. Wolfie.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21641	Excuse me, time. Mrs. Devereaux. The wolfman, Mrs. Schneider. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21642	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, you have often spoken in this high house of corruption in our society. How do you comment on the fact that the fugitive from the Croatian judiciary Zdravko Mamic directly accused Mr. Sessu of taking bribes by saying that he himself had given it to him, and that all the media had passed on, why did the president himself lack the testimony, and thus the whole institution he represented was in an uninvited position, and in fact the DORH's reaction was missing?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21643	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21644	Well, that's what I'm saying all along that we can rename it the Croatian judiciary with this leadership in the bag. Obviously, Mamic also said that it was only a bag and unfortunately those who were convicted, when we talk about the bag then we talk about money, obviously those people who were convicted in the Republic of Croatia get the opportunity to flee to another country and, unfortunately, walk there freely, and that's what gave them the bag again, the habit is just a bag in the Croatian judiciary and that's why we don't have Croatia, your Slavonia colleague Ruzica Vukovac, as we should have a full cow, a dairy producer, no, no cereals, no cereals, Croatia that could feed 100 million people, my Dalmatia sea feed 11 million people, there is no why? Because of the bag in the judiciary. The problem is the bag, and it's Sessa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21645	Thank you very much, I don't say forward even though you type, but I'll give, no, no, no, you've got more and here's the video link, you've got Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21646	Thank you, Chairman. Col. Bulj, the Croatian judiciary is generally not to be seen as one that is not good, so we do not need to generalise. There are many people who earn their daily bread diligently and honestly. What I think is the problem is that individuals within this system are prone to dishonesty, written with great N and its actions. And on the other hand, how do you trust them, the judiciary, when we see how long court proceedings are being tried and ruled out by various cases of corruption and robbery, various different bags, individuals, and I don't count, yet how do I believe him when the minister accidentally finds himself with jumpers in the restaurant? Maybe that meeting was really random in this case, but you'll agree, there's too much coincidence in Croatia to believe how random and the judiciary are [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21647	And the video connection has its own minute. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21648	Hello to Bear Doc. As far as your questions about my mistrust with these people in the justice system are concerned, I absolutely didn't say that, but there are people who find their bread hard to earn and suffer, suffer that injustice, and that's the case. However, the fact is that in your property neighborhood, if it were the judiciary, doing its job, and it was independent, if there were no bags, believe me, there wouldn't be so much emigration to hear children crying in schools, and not to cry to their parents at bus stations when they send their children, their whole family to Ireland, Germany, and I don't know where. The above judiciary and politics of the Republic of Croatia moved more people from Croatia than all occupiers from Turks to the 1990s. It is unfortunate in free Croatia what is happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21649	You don't have any more replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21650	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21651	Next up, Mr. Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21652	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Matula laughed a lot, so the bag is a bag on, on Zagreb's, just this one to let you know, you probably know. Here's another hello to Vice-President HS, the Honorable Supreme Court President with his deputy, State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice and Administration. As this debate itself has shown, here through free speeches, but generally unrelated to certain laws, we often discuss the judicial authority here in HS, it is often on the wallpaper and on the agenda. Normally, we have our own opinions and thoughts, and normally we have to discuss justice and in the form of perception itself, and we also know that when we look at the polls of certain, certain agencies when we see what our citizens think about the judiciary itself, we know that perception is something that the Supreme Court itself is very much on, but in general the Ministry of Justice needs to be done. We have before us a report by the President of the Supreme Court for 2019, which is both permeated with graphs and statistics, which I will not enter in detail in certain, individual items, but some are normally interesting and some should be highlighted here. As far as the statistics themselves are concerned, I will not enter here, and in the case numbers, that is what the President of the Supreme Court mentioned at the outset. It is important and interesting that a million and 200 thousand cases come annually to our courts and that approximately so much be solved but there is always a certain percentage that is smaller under the quotes of indecisive or long-term resolutions which, as well as occupying the public normally, throw away one, one negative image at the judiciary itself. It is also interesting that the statistics that we have here are a lot of representatives from the ranks of certain associations and gender equality, so nobody mentioned that 71% of judges are women, over 90% of the administration employees are the same women, so here I am particularly interested in the President of the Supreme Court when the competitions for judges and advisers are being respected she, the discriminatory decision is whether to hire this thing and the men at, in these courts. And it's not bad. Among the worse data now depends on which side we are looking at, it is the President of the Supreme Court noted as a good thing that our judges ranged from 55 to 65 years in the highest number as an experienced practice that we can't say we don't have experienced judges, but when we look at the latest report from the last year and two days, we see that it moved from 50 to 55 years where most judges were now 55 to 60, and the number of trainees and court counselors who make up about 1%, respectively. In the past year, I've been hired to think about 13 people, and here's the Supreme Court president himself. It's a note that over 160, 170 are missing. This is what I mentioned in the previous report, and I think that we came in one period and that the Supreme Court should discuss it more often with the Ministry of Justice itself, which is precisely the rejuvenation of the staff itself. For many years, court counselors, trainees, young lawyers have no access to the court, the court may, no matter how long it takes to extend the working age to 70 judges, and no matter how well it is to take advantage of the experience of some judges up to 70 years, it may not be a golden rule, but we should work on rejuvenating the staff and simply rejuvenate the justice system ourselves. A brief debate, I won't be able to mention much, I would also like the President of the Supreme Court to take a little notice in the final address and this regarding the merger of municipal and criminal courts. We've given a certain deadline to the judges to adapt to these cases, we're interested in statistics on how this is going now and a little bit more closely for the High Criminal Court and here's what I mentioned in the replica itself, but that would end up with the municipal court itself in Split, and you'd like to open up a debate with the ministry to open it up as soon as possible, so that this building has more state-owned land in the area, and I think it might be possible for the court to expand if there's not enough space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21653	The truth is, you said there were more judges, but there are more defendants of men, so we have one balance in court. It's been achieved. [[True, I can agree with you.]] The first replica of Ms. Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21654	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned the lack of staff in the courts, I must point out the problem of the island. We come from our Split-Dalmatia County where you can feel a lack of staff and so on in courts. Here's an example in our county on the island of Vis and there's no permanent judge, there's some fateful days, so these judges are coming to us from Split. Tell me if we can, can stimuli keep the best personnel on our islands, for example, to solve the housing issue and so on. What do you think of that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21655	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21656	Thank you, Vice President. Thanks to colleagues on the replica, I agree with you that the fateful days are one institution that is good and is introduced well and solves and speeds up certain things especially in certain islands and places where there may be no need for a permanent trial or for the establishment of some special exposures, but the staff are definitely this one I mean for now the main problem. The President of the Supreme Court also noted in the proposals himself, in the report itself, that it was mostly based on finance and materials, the materials of the items related to the courts, but I think that, with both the material and the finances of the courts and the Supreme Court themselves, I think we should think very much about stimulation, but this is a good point from the President of the Supreme Court that we can also in some way increase the salaries of judges at the beginning rather than those at the internship, but also from those where they will be located.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21657	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Jelkovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21658	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You mentioned a negative perception in society related to the entire judiciary, and thus to the judiciary. Yes, that is so, but I would disagree with you that only the Ministry of Justice and the judiciary should work to create a better perception in society about this. Of course they must work on it and that alone, only the more efficient functioning of the system will contribute to better perception, but also in my opinion we must be not only critical, it should be justified critical, but also not at all be made to assess the system based on certain cases as negative and I think that if it is a judiciary, and it is one of the pillars of society that all of us, and so we here advocates must work to make that perception realistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21659	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21660	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues, for the replica. I completely agree with you. The question of the system and perceptions of any public institution of the state or any institution of public authority is a matter of society in general, and here are the public figures, and here we are in the Croatian Parliament, but I don't think the perception is based I didn't get to mention it in the debate, it's not just a dispute settlement. There are poor statistics except for these long-term, long-term disputes, so a million and 200 thousand disputes a year is not a small number. The question is why there are millions and 200,000 disputes on 4 and some million inhabitants in the first place. And that's problematic, I think, by preventing more mediation and certain ways of resolving disputes before, before the trial itself and the court itself could be very helpful in restoring the trust of our citizens and the judiciary, but generally in resolving any kind of dispute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21661	Thank you. A colleague, Ivan Radić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21662	Dear colleague, you mentioned to me an interesting fact that among the judges of 1712 judges there are 71% or 1215 female judges, a phenomenon so-called. The feminisation of the judiciary, which I think is a positive trend, has also been analysed by the European Commission for the efficiency of the judiciary in its reports. Unfortunately, when we talk about leadership positions or court presidents, there are only 14% of women, and I think there is room for progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21663	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21664	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you colleagues, what have you, what have you felt called and sided with this more beautiful sex, I agree with you. Today, the essence of the President of the Court is not an easy thing either, so women may be wiser so they avoid this place a little bit, but when we look at statistics and justice, health and higher education, there is a lasting trend of what you mentioned at EU and female levels here and indeed this prevails in these interests. It's something interesting, something that should certainly be discussed, but also normally explored why this.../incomprehensible/... is probably doing the very trend of higher education where these women are more educated than men in statistical percentages, but now it's just taking over the top functions that in health care, which in the judiciary, which in high school is definitely one negative trend where still in that pool women, the man is this president.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21665	Thank you, thank you very much. Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21666	Thank you. An esteemed colleague here, the judiciary is one of the pillars of society, and my colleague Jelkovac said before me, but how does a fellow citizen's trust return this to our courts? So when we look at how big a system of 66 courts, over 1700 judges, over a million and 200 cases a year. So let's get out of here. Let's just start with this discussion of ours. Let's try to be more moderate. In your debate, you also looked at how to rejuvenate the judiciary with this, we said in the system that we have only about 1% of the court advisors, and what I would commend here, my colleague Radic, has taken my word, to commend this is what this ratio of women and men is in this system, but unfortunately, only 14% of the presidents of the courts are women. I hope in some of the next debates here we change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21667	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21668	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague, first of all, I thought I shouldn't have mentioned this whole part at all. I'm going to accept this part myself. I didn't mean anything by it, of course. I agree with you. The figures when we look at pure statistics we can't see at all problems in the judiciary, when we look at statistics only, the number of cases received, the number of solved, but enough is that percentage of long-term or hard-solved cases that simply throw a black picture at the entire judiciary and one subject is enough one human destiny that requires its right in court and must be sought out for 5, 7, 10 years, and perhaps something isn't so complicated, it's enough to sensitise the public and to throw away and that we all look at the judiciary immediately as a problem. It's something through your opinions and I think the Supreme Court can certainly have an interference in solving precisely such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21669	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Carolina Vidovic Kristo's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21670	... The Croatian Commission has the lowest confidence in its judiciary, what was wrong with the microphone? [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21671	The microphone's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21672	Now it's working.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21673	Please.../incomprehensible/... return time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21674	Ladies and gentlemen, all the time here we repeat that according to the European Commission's research, Croats have the lowest confidence in their judiciary. And why is that? I'm only going to name a few reasons here, or cases. The ATM case, how to justify the fact that 11th year since the start of the Bankomat HPB affair, in which the damage is greater than 600 million kunas, we don't have a single verdict today, at least in the first degree. In the case of an ATM, an absolutely incredible fact has been documented, and this is that the bank's administration paid out a loan in which the request was written by hand and without any supporting documentation. On the basis of such a request, 33 million kunas of credit were paid. All of us ordinary citizens know when we're taking a loan for a car or for an apartment we have to collect kilos of documentation, pay the notebooks, etc., but here we see that for a loan of 33 million kuna it didn't need any documentation. The first indictee Josip Protega, former HPB chief, said former President Stjepan Mesic, who otherwise falsely testified against Croatia against the office of the HPB and asked that the loan be paid to KIO Orahovica, who was otherwise owned by Mesic's friends. Mesic denied it by saying that he as president of the state only informed himself of the possibility of lending the company. If it wasn't absurd, it would be ridiculous. Obviously, because Mesic is involved in the "Bankomat" affair, the case is not resolved because the laws do not apply to the powerful in Croatia. Here we should add that these are all the powers that draw their tails from the former UDBA system, the KOS and what all these services have been called. The functional judiciary is a prerequisite for orderly advanced societies and states, unlike unregulated, unfair, backward in which the judiciary does not function. That the Croatian judiciary does not work the whole Croatian nation, the European Commission does, but international investors also know that, and therefore they do not invest in Croatia. What kind of justice is that an affair like the one called the "Bankomat" does not solve, in which it is the most primitive form of corruption, in which unsecured loans are paid to companies through which the credit is drawn in cash through fictitious invoices, and the said company ends up in bankruptcy. The Croatian judiciary, which separates a billion from the budget and 300 million kuna, serves Croatian powermakers to rule the taxpayers and retain the status quo in preventing the rule of law in which Croats are citizens of the second order of the EU. You have an example of a scandalous judge, Ivan Turudic, who runs from the police in a 155,000-euro car, and then does not respond to the court. That means the judge and not any judge, but the president of the country's largest court does not respect judicial authority. In order for the absurd to be even bigger here, the President of the Supreme Court exculpatorys him of his responsibility publicly praising him for being exemplary, and that this is just a minor incident. Now that judge is even named President of the High Court. The pride and insolence of Croatian powerful men obviously have no end. We all know that for Todorovic, Mesic is an entrepreneurial son who drives 195/hr while 50 are allowed for them, the judiciary has no penalties. This kind of justice doesn't serve anything. That is why there are no foreign investments in Croatia, why our interest on loans and ordinary citizens is higher than in the rest of the EU. That is why Croatians have to go after bread from the state they created with blood, that is why those who gave the most for the Croatian state and these are Croatian defenders so bitterly. And in order not to be, for example, the Supreme Court judge Damir Kos, the judge of the deep communist state, reduces the sentence to Captain Dragan. The judge, Kos, who became a young communist court judge in Yugoslavia when he was only 27 years old, shows his understanding to one of Captain Dragan, a proven villain. Ladies and gentlemen, legal order is the backbone of society. That spine in Croatia must be rescheduled. Let me be clear. A very transparent and meaningful Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the management of the county courts in the set must be replaced in a way that changes the Law on the State Judicial Council, that, as in the case of the state of Bavaria, every judge must pass a security check to determine whether there is a cover in his income. Because we need judges who are independent, that means invaluable, that means unsuspecting. This implies that they must be properly paid and, of course, they must blindly follow the Constitution and the laws, not the powerful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21675	Now it's Mr. Stephen Nikola Bartula. There's a pay phone now. You can stop throwing yourself away so Mr. Bartulica can talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21676	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the judicial authority. At first, I'd say we're aware of how important this subject is. I wish there were more colleagues here, no matter what the evenings. We only have a chance to discuss the work of the judicial authority once a year. Also, I'll say I'm aware of the problems stemming from the legacy of the former system. It cannot be pointed out enough times and underline that all countries, not only Croatia but other former communist countries, have major problems with the work of the judicial authority, i.e. with the cultivation of a new culture that requires both democracy, freedom and all that the rule of law implies. I would also mention one proverb, it is often mentioned in the American public “Justice deejayed is justice denied”, so the justice that is slow or delayed is actually denied justice. It doesn't matter how long it takes, it doesn't matter. This report mentions a lot of data, and it is difficult to sum up and study all of this in a short time. However, it is mentioned that, compared to 2018, procedures take a little longer for the past year. So there's no movement. In my opinion, we have too many procedures that last over seven years. As nice as it sounds, something's downsized that number still too many. And about this debate that was so far, so I mentioned our executive law that is what it is. But most of it looks like this because the courts are already overloaded, it's Mr. Sess himself in some way admitted. So whose fault it is, I'm not going to say it's one person now, but obviously it's not good, objectively it's not good. And as much as we'd like to deny the fact that this has great implications for other areas, especially the economy. So it's no secret that there are no, they don't have our own people's trust in the judiciary, let alone foreigners who can invest elsewhere not only in Croatia and it costs us. It's hard to figure out what's the damage, but I'm pretty sure it's a big one. So it's no accident that often when this issue is being examined, so the work of the judiciary, the same things appear, so great mistrust, the congestion of courts with a large number of cases, length of proceedings, etc., it's been repeated for years and years and there's simply no movement. And unfortunately, it should also be said that our EU membership is not a guarantee, there is no guarantee that things will automatically improve. We fool ourselves if we think that being a Croatian member of the EU things will improve quickly and change because it is obviously not so, unfortunately. I wish it were different, but it's not. Therefore, we will continue to insist on the transparent work of the courts and that the simple duration of these proceedings is simply reduced to the extent possible because our citizens are simply rightly waiting and losing patience. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21677	Thank you very much, stay here, Mr. Troscott has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21678	Dear Mr. Bartulic, my question is next. It was almost a frantic fact for me today to hear the President of the Supreme Court saying that it was a mantra for the judiciary to stop the Croatian economy. Since you have also lived in the market economy and since I have followed some of your opinions on the Chicago School, Hayek and other major thinkers of the economy, I would ask you nicely to give me your opinion if diagnostics to the highest instance of the judicial authority are not clear how then we think about reforming the economic type? Question No. 2. How much do you think an estimate of the opportunistic cost of uninvested money in Croatia is? And the 3rd I know that you've dealt with this, how many Slovakias have managed to make structural reforms and justice and public administrations and everything else have managed to attract investment and capital from outside? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21679	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21680	Here's a thank you, colleague Troscott, for that question. You said a lot, I'm glad you mentioned Chicago school, and I quoted Milton Friedman in one presentation the other day. The opportune cost is huge, I don't have it now, I can't mention some amount from my sleeve, but I think it's clear to all of us that Croatia pays a great price for this situation. However, just for comparison, you mentioned Slovakia. We're 15 years ago. have been far ahead of Slovakia as far as GDP is concerned, today Slovakia per capita has 1,000 EUR of higher GDP than Croatia, when multiplying with the number of inhabitants it is at an annual level of EUR 20 billion. The annual Slovakia creates more than Croatia unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21681	No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Rose of the Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21682	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Supreme Court President, with assistants, colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, the report by the President of the Supreme Court shows that unfortunately, of all our courts, it is the most burdensome administrative Supreme Court, which also has the average length of proceedings. What we know from the detailed earlier statistics of the Justice Department is that over 90% of the Supreme Court cases are actually pending cases of the civil department, not the criminal department. We who are from the profession often hear arguments that the issue of overburdening the civil court department is in fact irrelevant because these cases are already legally solved by second-degree judgments, which is why the Supreme Court would, in fact, allow itself more maneuvering space when it comes to the speed of solving the case. However, when we look at the decisions of the Constitutional Court or of the European Court of Human Rights, it is evident that both of these courts, when calculating the overall duration of the proceedings, shall also take into account the length of the proceedings before the Supreme Court and shall also be paid to the parties from the national budget for the purpose of breach of the right of trial within a reasonable period of time. Unfortunately, in this report, I cannot find any opinion from the President of the Supreme Court on the reasons for such a situation in his court, nor do I find any concrete suggestions on how to address this problem. However, the proposals you submitted at the end of the report to the MPs do not refer to this issue, and they were only prescribed from your report last year and present nothing new to us. In the context of this situation in the Supreme Court last year, one of the biggest reforms of the audit system took place in a litigation procedure by introducing an audit after authorisation. Since you have not stated anything in the report about how the new audit system has affected the work of the Supreme Court and whether it has had any effect on the burden of the civil department, I would ask you to inform us here if this is possible in the final report, or say something. I would also like to ask you an extremely important piece of information, which is the rate of rejection of the audit as permitted. According to some of the information we have at our disposal, you've rejected more than 90% of the clearance audits in the last year, but I'm allowing that real state and official information on this is different. I ask you, therefore, to give us your opinion on this information in light of the right of citizens to access the Supreme Court and in light of the constitutional role of the Supreme Court in ensuring equality of all before the law and the obligation to levelen court practice. In this regard, I would like to remind you that a similar audit model has already been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court because of the disturbance of jurisdiction between the Constitutional and the Supreme Court when such a model has led to an increased inflow of cases to the Constitutional Court. And I also stress that the model we adopted has nothing to do with the French Casation Court model that you often refer to is already prescribed by the Serbian and Bosnian Herzegovina audit models adopted by these countries in front of accession negotiations with the EU, all with the aim of a rapid reduction of the backlogs and of meeting Benchmark set up by EU negotiators. I hope we can get these answers today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21683	Thank you, too. Mrs. Devereaux. Dalia Oreshkovic is on her way now. Clean up, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21684	Thank you, Chairman. Well, it wasn't my plan, but here's what I'm going to do right away on my previous pay phone, since she mentioned a fair trial fee. There is data in the report, here I am one of those who reads the pedantic report, page 27 says that according to the court's data delivered in the last year, 66 deadlines for ending proceedings set out in cases for a reasonable period of time, and the total amount of compensation in those cases is 66 and 200 thousand kuna, and that is how much our judiciary appreciates the torment of our citizens who have waited too long to resolve their case, and we know that the dispute of justice is not justice, 66 thousand and 200 kuna, nothing. Ma'am. Jelkovac, it's practically nothing but a little bit more than that one single invoice I charged to Janafu. ... You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] The reforms of the judiciary are one of those reforms that our citizens so eagerly expect. To be able to expect that judiciary to carry out its basic task, which is to do justice and to exercise the principle of justice, justice. The report we read today was meant to give us answers to the question in which direction the judicial reform should go in the first place. So this was supposed to be a document that provides answers to questions, both in organisational terms in the area of judicial administration and in a substantive sense, so where are the biggest legislative problems, whether it be procedural provisions, whether it be material legal provisions. But the document that we are discussing today has no problem. In its final statement here, I would call on the applicant of this report to give us, however, a few concrete answers to the question, in particular to clarify the reasons for the reference of that unfortunate letter to the Head of the DORH, and, in particular, since he stated in his report that the following, therefore, were mentioned the surveillance in which irregularities were observed in the process of entering the data into the system of the e-record, and it states that, as measures, the courts were required to report timelyly to the Ministry of Justice and the High Court of Justice on the removal of irregularities in the process. So I think HS should have information about what kind of perceived irregularities this is. But there is no such thing in the report, only one such flat-rate conclusion that can indeed be a copy of the past years’ reports, or God forbid such practice to continue in the future. It is stated on a case-by-case basis that cases of control of the resolution of the old files, insight into the work of judges, judicial advisers, officials, deputies, control of the existence of even burdens of courts, visits of investigative prisons, surveillance of outdated criminal cases, but there is not a single word about what actually happened, and why does the information that the Supreme Court President can obtain from his internal control system require outside his own house? As far as the state of the prisons is concerned, we have learned more from the report by the attorney general than from anything we can find on the pages of this report. I would also like to say that when we talk about that analysis and the proposals that the applicant should suggest HS, here is a concrete example, the report states: “The increase in the number of cases in which the high administrative court decides in the first instance which additionally burdens the work of this court, and the possibility of reducing such powers in certain types of cases should be considered, and that such cases should be directed to courts in the first instance rather than to skip the first instance. ” My question to you, Mr. Sess, well, who should say what kind of case it is? Are we supposed to conclude this from a crystal ball, or is it based on your report that you haven't drawn up properly? Furthermore, the following is also mentioned: “As regards the first-degree cases of county courts in which the proceedings take place over the 10th year, it is mainly cases of execution of prison sentences in which warrants have been issued for perpetrators of criminal offences which are inaccessible for a long time, and factually and legally extremely complex and extensive criminal cases which cannot even be statistically observed because they absorb the work of judges for several years in only one case.” Why don't we have the information that this case is about, at least indicatively? These are the items that destroy the trust of the citizens in the work of the judiciary, and we treat them as if they were not there. You're also saying that every indicator does not give itself an objective picture of the success of the work of a particular court, but should look at all the circumstances of the indicator together. And who was supposed to analyze them? [[Intruder: Thank you]] You did, but you didn't. You didn't have time or will? [[/Intruder: Thank you, beautiful, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21685	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Penava is on his way now, wait for him to come, just a moment, just to stick to all the rules. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21686	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court and his associates. Reading this report gives the impression that everything is ideal, that everything is beautiful, wonderful. There are mechanisms, things are being solved, there's surveillance, there's a technique and there's a lot of good written, it's prescribed, and we really shouldn't be separated from any modern, democratic state. I will only remain on this one part of your report, which the president says defines what the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is doing. So he says: “The President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is also the highest body of the judicial administration, which means that it oversees the work of all courts in the Republic of Croatia with insight into data on their work and direct supervision of work in a particular court. The President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia may issue binding instructions to the presidents and judges of the lower courts. In the annual report, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia may warn the state and functioning of the judicial authority, organisational problems in courts and shortcomings in the legislation, and give proposals to improve the work of the courts."In this exhausting report, none of your points on war crimes are unfortunately made, let alone when we know what the dynamics of solving these same crimes are to make suggestions for improving work. I'm reading to you now the 2018 DORH report. This Regulation shall enter into The war crimes of the JNA High Military Command by assaulting Vukovar and Eastern Slavonia. The indictment of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek on 24 May 2002 was added to the indictment of the County State's Attorney's Office in Vukovar in December of the same year in the same case. So there's also a GDO indictment attached to Bjelovar in '92. age, 28 years. The indictment of Vukovar's GDO concerns the first defendant Veljko Kadjevic, and continues with the order of Blagoja Adzic, Zvonko Jurjevic, Bozidar Stevanović, Milet Mrksic, etc. Blagoje Adzic was born in 1932, Veljko Kadjevic died in 1925, 1914. You know what the Vukovar indictment includes? It includes 1292 dead civilians. If I were to start reading your names I would go like this Milan Achimovic, Pero Adamović, Anda Akik, Emil Alexander, Matej Aleksander, Vlastam Alexander, Milka Amstat, Vlatka Amstat, Vlatko Asudaak, Ivica Antolović, Ivo Antunović, Saša Antunović, Ekrem Arnautović, Ljubica Arsenić, Simo Arsic, Zlata Asanović, Vendelin Astaloš. And now I'm going to stop because it's just a letter A. Sub B, unfortunately those names have taken a lot of paper. Under B, such action by the indictees was completely destroyed and destroyed by one city, the city of Vukovar with all historical, cultural, religious and economic facilities. Under C that by occupation, the wounded were killed in the hospital, the members of the MUP, the National Guard Assembly, etc. etc. And now that you put only one item on one side, only this one object with its weight, which he has, and all these other tens of thousands of objects that you've listed in the report and years, so I think everyone here is clear about what's going on and what's harder. You don't mention war crimes in your report. For this injustice and shame, I hold the responsibility of all of you who have been acting in that capacity, but also the authority that holds people in functions that do not act in that capacity that they should and who have not been able to deliver to these people for 28 years, and now, as we have seen in the cases of the deceased, that justice is dead and we will no longer welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21687	Stay Mr. Penava. Mr. Bull has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21688	Thank you very much. Comrade Penava, you as mayor of Vukovar live every day with victims, their families and it is tragic that a Serbian-cetical crime along with so-called. The JNA that was made in Vukovar, the Homeland War has no convictions whatsoever. And colleagues and colleagues, Djuro Sesa, Supreme Court President, are you ashamed to listen to this? Are you ashamed to hear that no war criminals have been convicted, while at the same time the heroes of the Homeland War are being persecuted, you forget. While the Shakespeares are arresting her, the locations... Croatian heroes Vukovar is still longing, where every scream and cry is heard, you have done nothing and those criminals are walking free. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You even challenged the gatherings of a protest colleague from the majority And colleagues to stop Vukovar. [[Mr. Penava's response.]] That's why you're full of support in your fight, Comrade Penava.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21689	Answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21690	Dear fellow Bully, this subject suffers neither politics nor cheap points from anyone. I'm not saying you just tried it. This topic requires only justice and honesty. None of it lives in this country, and you say what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21691	Now it's Mr. Krunoslav Katicic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21692	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, his deputy, fellow Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a careful reading of this Supreme Court Report on the state of the court in 2019, which clearly shows the continuation of the trend in judicial proceedings as well as the decline of the number of days to resolve these proceedings. That trend should be welcomed. All stakeholders of these proceedings from the resolution ministry, members of the structural chambers and associations as well as judges of all levels of courts, including citizens themselves. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, of course, further confirms this Report its very important role in the judicial system, and confirms the correctness of the current amendments to legislation both in the material and legal direction. I remind you that both the number of pending cases in the trade, administrative and in the cases before the County Courts, the High Court of Commerce and the Supreme Court have been reduced. I keep this fact crucial because cases conducted in front of these courts are essential for equating court practice. The unquestionable fact is that first degree courts are based mainly on senior court decisions. The increase in the number of pending cases is recorded by the Municipal Courts as well as the High Criminal Court and the High Administrative Courts. The reason for this increase lies clearly in the fact that the legislative framework has changed. A large number of so-called. Individual cases in Swiss cases and simple bankruptcy of citizens who therefore resulted in a higher number of cases in front of first-degree courts. Furthermore, the trend of a reduction in the number of long-term cases should be praised, and it is about items whose duration is between three and seven years. The problem of long-term proceedings is a multi-annual problem, but also the fact that such items are reduced year by year. Therefore, additional efforts should be made to make such cases as little as possible. Given the numerous changes in procedural litigation laws, in particular in the part of the possibility of legal medicinal products being declared, I am sure that this observed problem will also be one of the priorities of the judiciary in the broader sense of the word. I particularly point out that legislative solutions should be drawn up as soon as possible, which will also set framework criteria on the length of procedures for each individual subject-matter, in particular in first-degree cases. Making such criteria is one of the government's programme promises. We believe that in this House we will use all our expertise and capacities to bring forward solutions to the satisfaction of Croatian citizens as soon as possible. Finally, I consider the report of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2019 realistic, positive and objective, and I particularly support the proposals referred to under point one, which is redefining the network of courts and the process of merger. Point 5 is the Law on amendments to court delivery and point 7. Which refers to the education of courts. This is all mentioned in the conclusion of the report in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21693	Thank you very much. Yeah, stay here. You have two replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21694	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You mentioned a colleague in his presentation and amendments to the law and certain new legal solutions that might help you to resolve especially this subject of long-term processes that we find in Croatian courts. I'm interested in your opinion on legal solutions. I think that a strong mechanism is just to unify court practice, and that is also the instructions and opinion of the Supreme Court itself to lower courts on how to resolve certain disputes. You mentioned a particular Swiss. Why don't we unite and have a certain verdict or a certain category of judgments that will speed up all other processes, and that model can be applied to many other disputes and cases where I think it would simply speed up and reduce the number of cases, but also overloading courts and judges themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21695	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21696	Thank you. Yes, I mentioned that important item in the judicial proceedings, which means that it is a uniformity of the case law which I believe is, as I was saying at the outset, of the crucial importance of doing things in every particular case. I agree. I think the experiences are absolutely good. It seems to me that we are going in the right direction as far as this is concerned, so that, through and through the establishment of the High Criminal Courts, one new dimension, that this is going towards equating practice, and these elements that you mentioned are certainly already being used, but the type of collective, indicative criteria would certainly satisfy these needs further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21697	Thank you, too. Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21698	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, you mentioned that in 2019 a part of the old items was solved and that is correct. Of the 23943 old items as seen in the Report, 15761 items were solved, which is a total of 66% of all these items. However, there are still plenty left. I think you should really think about it and maybe even some more drastic steps as soon as you bring it to zero, because that's what throws the most negative image and creates this negative perception of the state of the court. I also think that there should be close cooperation between representatives of the judicial authority and the Ministry of Justice in order to point out those measures that should be improved in the legislative framework in order to further speed up the procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21699	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21700	Thank you for this matter, colleague. Of course, long-term procedures are one long-term problem, especially those long-term procedures that last for over 7 years. So that's why I mentioned this part which, I think, is one of the solutions to making a legislative framework to define means, as there are statistics for the work of judges to set and framework criteria in which each individual case can be solved, at least to know in what sense it should be. Of course, I think that there is sufficient expertise now and in the Ministry of Justice and in other stakeholders of the judicial authority that will welcome these measures well and support a quality set of criteria for such individual cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21701	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mr. Domagogy's story.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21702	Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court. It is not just that justice is done, but it is important to see that justice is done. This proverb I learned a long time ago at law school is definitely what it takes and you learn through life that it's really important. If we have cases and cases that have been handled for five, ten or fifteen years then it creates such an impression in the public regardless of the judgment that was later made, however just this is plowing trust and our fellow citizens in the judiciary. The inefficiencies we have in many systems in Croatia, and certainly in the judiciary system damages our citizens, damages the state and damages the economy. Of course it's a two-sided relationship. On the one hand, perhaps society and other systems can have a negative impact on the judiciary, and, of course, the judiciary, if it does not work well, can also influence society. Unsolved cases have been constant over the past decades in the Croatian judiciary, they constantly burden the judiciary and let's hope that the share will decrease over time. Unfortunately, the polls that have been conducted among our citizens, and not that we need them, because we know ourselves from conversations with our fellow citizens, often tell us that there is low trust in the judiciary among them. This can indeed be a big problem, because if we have no confidence in the judiciary, if we have no confidence in politics, which is also one constant, then it can be a particularly dangerous mix for society. The legal uncertainty that can be demonstrated and which may exist should not necessarily stem from the inconsistency of the law alone, it may also arise from the judge himself, which means that he is carrying out the procedure himself. For example, if we have one subject, a citizen if we run ten different litigation procedures by one, for example, a utility company, if we have one factual basis, if we have the same objections, if we have almost the same evidence, and eventually we get in these ten different decisions. I mean, which variable is different there to make different decisions. It can all be, so that variable is a different judge, or different judges. So much depends on the judge himself and his interpretation of the law. This also tells us a lot about the value of the individual in life and in the very system of judgment. What may be the biggest problem is today and mentioned, these are certain items that last a long time. I remember when I heard of one subject, I think it was over 40 years of running, in that case, among other information I heard from a colleague who was working in law enforcement, he heard from other people about the case. So it's over after 40 years. The question has been raised whether the citizen who initiated the procedure was alive at the time the procedure was completed, it is not a rhetorical issue. The answer is he wasn't alive. But not only did he unfortunately passed away before the process was over, but as far as I knew it meant, the lawyers themselves had changed. It was that instead of one lawyer who unfortunately passed away, the other came after that. I think it was only the third lawyer who later solved the case and led him to the end. What's positive, though, is that over the years, we see a reduction in the number of pending proceedings. Let's hope this keeps up no matter what we've seen here recently in the last year that there's been a rise. But let's hope that in 5, 10 years, the number of pending proceedings will continue to fall as well. What is fundamental is to always remind what should be clear in itself, which is that it is always necessary to ensure the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the judges. That may sound like nice words, like something that's self-comprehensible, but it's something that's absolutely necessary and for that, as a society, we always have to fight. What we specifically had in Croatia was a problem we have in Croatia, of course a large share of state-owned companies. The leadership of these companies therefore always calls politics. We know the various corruption affairs that have been fought against individuals and political parties. So we have to keep an eye on it means always to separate, to ensure the judiciary is secure and to separate that it has no influence on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21703	Thank you, too. The last individual debate, Mr. Ante Kujundzic, with a video connection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21704	Thank you, Chairman. So here's listening to the whole afternoon debate. I would like to approach this report in a different way. So, while the society has been accommodated, in fact, to think that the main problem of the judiciary is unquality work in the work of judges, and thus the judiciary also comparative statistics on the work of judges in the Republic of Croatia and other EU members will actually point to the fact that the courts are not the main target leading to the dispute of the case. So, the problem of the judiciary, I think, should be viewed in a more layered way and it is necessary to dismember it in all parts of the system in order to come to a solution to the problem of the Croatian judiciary. The problem is that, for example, it has never set out to address the core of the Croatian judiciary's problem as it has never been sanctioned by those who are not often in the system. This forward claim that judges are not the main.../incomprehensible/... and the claim of ineffectiveness of judges should be valorized as I said by bringing them together with judges from other states. For example, a judge in the Republic of Croatia in a civil department in one year performs cca 300 cases, 300 cases, and the same judge in Helsinki, for example, works in the same period of 66 cases. So in Croatia, the judge does five times as many cases. For example, the second-degree court in Helsinki has 60 judges and as many advisers who perform and solve cca 4,000 cases annually while comparisons are done by the County Court in Zagreb with 40 judges each year and solve 16,000 cases. The power went out here in Dalmatia when the bird flew away immediately, but it's important that you hear me. So in Helsinki, 60 judges and just as many advisors perform 4,000 cases a year while comparisons work in Zagreb 40 judges do 16,000 cases, I repeat 16,000 cases. From this fact, it is actually evident that the main problem of the judiciary is not the judges. The truth is they are a wheel in the nakaradic system and legislation that moves at a slower pace than we would like. The average duration of the civil court proceedings is cca 340 days in Croatia while it is 180 days in the EU. Judges as the end of the judicial chain, and as a matter of fact, those who need to reach a verdict are under an increase in this, we all agree, but the objective question is whether the first quality can be achieved in such a mass of cases if we take into account what every judge has to do. In particular, it must catch the judicial norms prescribed for them to be valued satisfactorily. And I could continue to list a whole series of illogicalities now, but I'm going to mention, for example, only one thing I don't know is the malleable injury the door is an injury that a priory is known from that civil case, but for the same, despite the fact that the height of the damage is known and the verdict is necessary to carry out several hearings at which the evidence is being carried out. They are being carried out because it is the impression that the Croatian judiciary is in this case suitable for insurance companies that are being paid for in such a benign injury and judicial procedure. Now, you're wondering how they're worth it? So they are paid because the costs of lawyers and the costs of litigation go into business costs and the same makes it easier in their business because the amount of damages I find even prescribed by the criteria of the Supreme Court and each can be mathematically calculated which is an additional absurd to lead these cases and to actually fill the judiciary with them. I could mention, for example, the problem of delivery in cases as another enormous problem and not counting on it. Why is this all like this and everything I haven't listed and why it hasn't changed in years should those in whose jurisdiction it is. This example shows that the key problem of the judiciary is legislation. A stable and quality legislative system is also the basis for the start of a road towards quality justice. The number of laws passed in this honorable home on a weekly basis is a kind of stampede in which even experts cannot manage without talking about citizens. For example, I will conclude that what is necessary for the Croatian state is the legislative discharge above all, after which one form of independence of the judiciary and its efficiency, justice and equality of the justice system... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21705	Thank you, Mr. Kujundić, thank you. We heard you, and we saw you not, but we heard you perfectly. And now it's our turn, now we're done with individual debates, and it's the end words of the club, three club representatives. The first is Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, who will speak in front of the club, finally, in front of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21706	The Honorable President, fellow MPs and MPs, so very briefly, clearly and simply why this report cannot be accepted as it is. Because no matter how little we all touched the other issues of the judiciary, this is a primary and dominant debate on a specific report. It cannot be accepted not because it is so soullessly defended by those who have the power and the power to rule as many as you wish, convicted of corruption and too many cases which, by the Copernicus turn into some appeal phase, not because of it. It's mostly because Mr. Sessa didn't do your job right. You weren't busy enough, you didn't care enough to really describe in that report and state everything that was expected of you. Someone who acts so high in the judicial system justifiably expects more, much, much more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21707	It is now up to Mrs Sandra Bencic to speak finally on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21708	Thank you. So, finally, I'm going to talk a little bit about the reasons why citizens' perception of the independence of the judiciary and the quality of the justice system is what it is, so the worst in the whole EU is because we need to ask ourselves what it is they see. I will agree here that most judges really do well and quality work especially given the conditions in which they work. Many of them work really in inappropriate conditions without information support. In some courts, we still don't even have the basic insurance that's supposed to be. So there are cases like that. And I'm talking to my colleagues lawyers who tell me all the things that happen in such courts that are sub-disciplined. And that's why we should give them all the credit for everything you're doing, and thank you for staying in that system at all. But on the other hand, what citizens also see is that cases of political corruption have not been resolved for years, that the decade has passed without having a decision in those cases relating to political corruption, so for what there is the greatest public interest in getting rid of as soon as possible. Citizens see that even when there is a verdict, for example, now for the Croatian community here, there is a majority present, that they are responsible for corruption in the Fimi Media case that this does not affect the possibility of those who took part in it sitting here today in this assembly and receiving wages. Citizens see that they need both a certificate of impunity and a confirmation that they are not subject to criminal proceedings, and that this is not an obstacle, for example, to be mayor of the city of Zagreb or an official. Citizens see Mamic as a fugitive from the Croatian judiciary who has joined many with dual citizenship in BiH as he witnessed the video in the SMS affair and the truth is that, it was legally necessary and yes, it is legally possible. But as our well-known commentator Sanja Modric said, the fact that it was legally necessary does not remove stomach nausea that occurs to us because of a failed case of criminal processing. The same criminal who publicly accused the Supreme Court president of taking bribes from him and giving it to him himself. I'm not saying it's true, we don't know it. We don't even have an investigation into how much we know or have at least some results. But it certainly is not good for the citizens' trust in the judiciary that this is how the President of the Supreme Court is called and that it is possible at all. Citizens see Tom Horvatinčić guilty of the death of two people sentenced to 4 years and 10 months ago exactly one year ago became a powerful verdict, 4.12. If I remember correctly, how he's been drinking coffee on Flowers for the past year and still not in prison because he has health problems because otherwise all other citizens who have health problems don't go to jail, they're standing on Flower Drinking Coffee. Citizens see Bandic with more than 10 confirmed indictments buying pumpkins on his face to girls three times younger than him, a Bandic for whom the judiciary only took five years to confirm his indictment in the Agram case and until the verdict we will wait for who knows how much. Meanwhile, his "work" goes further, and the case of "wire" is only one in a number of these jobs. Citizens see her as an essential fact in her résumé for the attorney general's candidacy that her father was also a native on the Crossroad. So please tell me in which country in the résumé one of the highest functions in the judiciary is placed such a personal historical fact in its own family and for which it is a code, which makes it relevant for that position. What makes this fact relevant for the evaluation of her ability to be a state's attorney? For example, citizens today see that Jakelic, former head of the HUP, will walk back to the HUP after refusing to report sexual harassment because the injured have not submitted the indictment proposal within three months and most likely still receive compensation. He'll still get paid well. Citizens and entrepreneurs who report to a bagatel procurement tender know that there is no possibility of a complaint in Croatia or a dispute against a decision in the process of bagatelal procurement. I don't know if you know that. Note Bene, Croatia's bagatel procurement totals about 11 billion kuna per year. There's no legal remedy because the ZUS is, so because the High Administrative Court said that it's not a administrative matter. [[Thank you. Time.]] That's what the citizens see. So ask yourselves what reason is trust so low. [[/Intruder Radin: Mrs. Bencic time. Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21709	Thank you. Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac will finally speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21710	Therefore, in accordance with the data from last year's and this year's reports from the European Commission, Croatia did not provide a unique place on the Internet where the relevant data for citizens on their legal rights and judicial procedures, on the functioning of the judicial system or free legal assistance, or on such access information points exist in courts. Court decisions shall be made public through an e-produced panel system and shall thus be made available to the parties to the proceedings. However, this system does not allow third interested parties, so lawyers and citizens to search the database on court decisions on key terms or legal issues. The Supreme Court’s case-law only publishes judgments by selecting the administrator of that system from the Supreme Court, which is why this search-only base consists predominantly of some Supreme Court decisions with very rare decisions of the County Courts. From the point of view of unequal case-law, which is one of the key issues of the proper functioning of the judiciary, the main problem is the failure to publish the judgments of the County courts and high specialised courts in the database which could be searched on key issues or legal issues. In particular, access to the Supreme Court for extraordinary legal medicinal products is possible only if the parties prove the existence of different practices of second-degree courts, which is practically impossible if this practice is not publicly available in a systematised database. In your report, you did not refer to the European Commission's criticism of the electronic darkness in which the Croatian judiciary and its case law live. So I ask you, in your final address, to state the specific reasons why this is the case? What are your proposals to improve the situation, and how through legislative initiatives or amendments to the budget it is possible to help us MPs solve this problem. Under the existing rules, the Presidents of the Courts are required to regularly inform the Ministry of Justice of the need to appoint new judges, advisers and other staff. The formal-legal decision to initiate the procedure for the appointment of new or promotion of existing judicial officials shall be adopted by the State Judicial Council. However, it is obvious that in practice it is necessary to have budgetary resources and therefore you need the approval of the Ministry of Justice to hire advisers and deputies, it is always necessary to approve the Ministry of Justice. In Croatia, neither the ministry nor the DSV have ever developed a longer-term management strategy for human potentials in the judiciary. On the other hand, in its Report, the President of the Supreme Court is very directly warning of the failure of the courts and the constant outflow of judges and advisers from the system. However, it is really not clear to us representatives of the Croatian Parliament why this problem is brought directly to our attention, given that it is in fact a matter of quality of cooperation between the presidents of the DSV and the President of the Supreme Court with the Ministry of Justice and the Government themselves. However, the President of the Supreme Court has not informed us or spoken in his Report, so I would ask you to present in your final address all the difficulties you face in cooperation with the executive authority in filling your jobs in the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21711	Thank you, too. And thank you for your conciseness. Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club final.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21712	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I was already talking on behalf of the club about the Croatian Democratic Community club supporting this report, that we believe that the report contains a whole series of data on which one picture of the functioning of the judicial authority can be obtained. What I think is important is to say the figures that appear and related to the number of pending cases, related to the inflow of over a million and two hundred thousand cases a year, however, make it clear that trends are positive, that this number of pending cases is reduced, that the number of days needed to solve and also decrease. What's important and what was here is about the perception of the judiciary, it's true, there are objects that frustrated us all. Those who have been conducting criminal proceedings for many years have no right to do so and that is something that is actually difficult to find any justification. It is clear that these are complex objects in every sense, both in terms of proof and in process terms, especially those where we have a dozen and more defendants and it is difficult and impossible to solve in a short time. But what we really have to do, we also have to figure out the procedural possibilities that such objects go faster. Because these cases aren't really justice, and these cases are perceived by the judiciary and that's what's wrong. I think it's a good path that's actually back a few years ago also affirmed, and that's digitization of the judiciary. Here we have on stage the communication of both lawyers and judges and other participants through the e-list. So, we won't have any more paper problems here, we won't have those shipping costs, and that's a way that needs to actually be even stronger affirmed, on which to work even harder. The perception of the judiciary will be better when actually those figures are even more favourable, when they are even better, when there are fewer decisions made by the public, so I would say very often for a reason. Because there were also names here of some cases where decisions were not in line with the expectations of the public. But again, on the other hand, we need to know that there is a double sword. We often have objects where the public expects something, where in fact, in some ways, through the media, work and pressure on the media, and then after maybe ten years, it turns out that all of this didn't stop. I watched a show recently on Mr. Herak, a former minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia who had been convicted and who had won after ten years of running the dispute and the Supreme Court found there was no responsibility. An entrepreneur from Split, the owner of that SMS company was also publicly identified as guilty and has been spoken of as a criminal for years. His personal life was probably ruined, his business life, and then we got to the point that it wasn't true and that the man was innocent. So public perception can be very often on both sides. And that's why I think we need to trust our courts, that we need to look at things objectively, that we can't look at cheerleaders at that stage, and that's why I think we need the figures that are now on stage that we need to respect them, that we all need to contribute together to create a better framework for them to be better tomorrow. Because exactly someone said that the legal changes were a lot, and that's true. I think now in some future we don't need so many changes to the law anymore, we need actually good practice. We need good practice. We will also get good practice through the education of judges, we will also come up with the modernization of actually the way of work, and many infrastructure projects because really very often the conditions with which judges and officials and tenants work are very bad. However, a number of infrastructure projects have been launched that need to lead to better conditions. I could now list Dubrovnik from both Split and Sibenik and the new grantovna in Zagreb, the World Bank's loan for the reconstruction of the largest court in the Croatian Civil Court. There's a recent space for the Supreme Court. I think that in the litigation process we have also made certain steps to unburden and dimensional the Supreme Court that it is indeed the Supreme Court and in the civil proceedings where we have introduced the provisions on the view dispute, where we have introduced a review squad with permission, but also the establishment of a High Court of Criminal Court, I think that the Supreme Court will finally have the place that belongs to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21713	Thank you. It is now up to Mr. Miro Bulj, who will be the final position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21714	At first, I say that the MOST Club will not support this report because the biggest problem in the Croatian society's development in terms of economy, uncertainty, mistrust, non-transparentity, fear of people is insecurity in the judiciary, and that is the fact in all the surveys that have been made that the judiciary is in the first place, not first, but in the first five places, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary and that is one of the biggest problems in the country where you say now my colleague Bosnjak and former minister and is now in Sanader's government, according to the digitisation of the judiciary. We wouldn't be digitizing this right now if you had a solid majority, a lot bigger, you wouldn't be sure if it wasn't for this coronary virus and you have the exact number of hands. Well, you didn't want to digitize, and that's the most important law with the judiciary that's electoral law, and it would be very easy, you see how it can in the crown so that there's no good will but the party's will to remain in power to control the system so judicially all other systems. Personal perception is a key problem, so not only perception but people from the economy, investors don't want to invest many departures, and otherwise, when we look at labour disputes, rights in numerous processes and actions of people simply by God, because their right to work has not been met by many people, many have died in the last 20 years because of various changes in laws, prejudiciality, frequent harmonisation I don't know what. And as for investment, yes, it was invested in buildings, for example. in Sinj, in 2000 or others cannot remember, 15 million kuna was invested in the reconstruction of the court and you came and came and abolished it, there is no municipal court, the centre of the Dalmatian Zagora. That's what you did. You made life difficult for people because they have to travel for miles, hundreds of miles, and they and the judges, you've increased the court's costs. This has not been answered by Mr. Sessa Supreme, Supreme Court President. So you left one area without a court of pure political motivation, leaving some courts clean out of political, political, some municipal courts you put out certain areas as if not for the time of Austria, the Austro-Hungarian occupations we had a municipal court in Sinj, Mr. Sessa, the municipal court in Sinj. Minister Bošnjakovic, you are good, I see he defends you, praises you. Why didn't you raise your voice that it was unfair for the Dalmatian Zagora from Krka to Neretva we don't have a municipal court. Why did you do that? But now we're gonna tell you all about mistrust. Turns out it was Ivo Sanader and no one knew him. And here I am going to visit Ivo Sanader man, colleague Bosnjakovic, Bačić, and I will visit the man and ask him how you are, no matter what my views are about him and then my views are the only.../incomprehensible... whose paper is forbidden to participate in Sinjska alca. It doesn't matter. No one's to blame for anything but Ivo Sanader. We've solved all the problems, that's the perception. Perception that nothing can be done without the bag. That the symbol of the Croatian judiciary, the economy, the politics, the influence of ministers, the strongest companies is JANAF from the head of the JANAF Club in Slovenia 9. If that's how the judiciary works, it's a disaster. If there was a representative of the judiciary, it's a disaster. And finally, when we destroy public procurement, competition, market, when we've destroyed everything we have left, we've only got a connected system of public procurement contracts in the case of JANAF. And so once again, I say, until the justice system is resolved, while the judiciary is independent of the bag, of.../incomprehensible/... there is no freedom for the Croatian people, there is no survival for the Croatian people, there is no security for the Croatian people, there is no development of the economy, demographic recovery and preservation means that market you are calling for a liberal policy that has absolutely nothing to do with liberalism or socialism, but only with clientelism and corruption, and that is the problem of Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21715	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21716	Article 238, just to clarify the question of the court in Sinj. Sinj has a permanent service, the building is arranged, people within that permanent service meet all the needs they have. I went around that field, and I saw that it was okay and the figures were based on which we actually set up a permanent service, they said permanent service, not this. I'm really surprised, so you had your political group 2016 and '17. The Minister of Justice, so how come you couldn't solve it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21717	Thank you very much, thank you. Sir, a reminder you have, of course I mean Mr. Bull, go ahead. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21718	A fellow Bosniak court has been in Sinj since 1873, and you know well that the plan was when Minister Šprlje was made to be the municipal court, meaning to be declared but a few months you came and deleted it and even lied to the people below. You've come to take pictures with your party colleagues, using your minister's judicial power at the time to deceive and lie to the people. So you lied to that people. And you were minister during Sanader... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21719	Thank you very much, thank you very much sir, you have, you have, you have already had three warnings, two, two, and you have this third with taking away the words of course, but what will you do now. Now you're going to sleep and you're going to dream nice, aren't you? Mr. Djuro Sesa, please? Oh, wait a minute, Mr. Sesa. Mr. Kujundzic, Mr. Kujundzic, you have a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21720	Yeah, yeah, do I hear you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21722	This injured Rules of Procedure Article 238 So with all due respect, Minister of the former current colleague, I don't know why you took the right to abolish the court in the Imot region. [[Intruder: Yes.]] I also don't know who took for himself the right to lift a birthplace in the Imot region, and then parallel to everyone else to invite The fact that the Dalmatian Zagora is something that... [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21723	Time, thank you very much, time. Here's the honor of giving the first breach of the Rules of Procedure in a video connection. Warning, you have a video alert. And you Mr. Bull can stay inside if you want, you know you don't have to go to sleep right now. Okay, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sessa, Mr. Djuro Sessa, the President of the Supreme Court will now have the final word after a lengthy debate on the State of the Court of Justice report for 2019. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21724	Representatives like this, first of all, I will first of all what has been said about concrete court cases regardless of who was involved and at what stage it was that I understand you will not be able to comment, and that should not have been the subject of a parliamentary debate, but what is there. As far as war crimes are concerned, that's a big problem, and I'm just going to say that according to the 2020 data, 98 war crimes cases are currently being prosecuted in courts, and 377 cases of war crimes and jump cases are currently being prosecuted, and 23.29 judges are working in 19 courts. So if there were more judges on these cases and more courtrooms, it would probably be more up-to-date. In this regard, the issue that was raised by the absentee trial is resolved. The Supreme Court has taken a position in this regard, therefore it is no longer any, no obstacle to the conduct of proceedings. As regards the lack of data on the cases of extraordinary audits, it cannot be because it started on 1 September 2019 and will be in the 2020 report. In the beginning, let me make all these constructive remarks about the content of the report or its complementarity of the data that is not presently available I will adopt them and in the next report I will enter them. So thank you for those suggestions. As far as statutes are concerned, they are a completely minor problem because it was in county courts, so where the serious cases are only 3 obsolete, and in municipal they were 43 when they took 56,000 solved cases in criminal matters, it's a really minimal number. As for the admission of trainees, it is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and here, the courts do not have any power to do so. Also, as for the staff, because everything is about the budget, the budget brings the parliament and deploys on this one to various resolutions. As far as the county court's urgency is concerned, there was a problem that these data were not available on page 62 of the report. With regard to the trials in very serious jumping cases, I have repeatedly proposed that in this report I did not explicitly write it but I spoke about it to the Ministry of Justice, two more courts should be introduced by my court to the Republic of Croatia who would judge these cases. There is nothing, I will now nominate which courts would be, not to offend those he would not name, but it seems to me that in northern Croatia there could be another court and somewhere on the coast another court who would judge in such cases and relieve this 4 large currently whether the court of law is said to be large in these cases. I don't think there's any reason not to. As regards the publication of the caselaw, it is on the one hand a matter of money, and on the other hand a question of the fact that first-degree rulings cannot be made public because they are not powerful and there is a ruling of the Administrative Court which explicitly stated this. As far as the second-degree rulings are concerned, it is true that the county courts are delivering to the Supreme Court those judgments which they consider relevant for the caselaw and they are being published and we are one of the few courts in Europe, I mean the Supreme Court which publishes all its decisions. They are located and are available to the public, of course the search engine could be simpler, but that large amount of judgment makes it somewhat slow and difficult to reach. What we have done is that we have put the principles of the judicial departments in a special place, in a special place to search them more easily, and if we find these are serious money to complete the system. Only because of the illustration at the Austrian Supreme Court did they tell us that they would not even in madness introduce such a system to bring all judgments into the system. So, different models we went to this liberal, rather liberal principle and I think that if he did, and I totally agree that second-degree judgments should also be published because of what you said, and that is that they can be subtly submitted to extraordinary audits or proposals for revision. As for courts and corruption, there are property card mechanisms that are not on the Internet yet, but will be, they are available to anyone who wants them, there are ethical councils that are the number of subjects on the Ethics Councils not the problem of the Ethics Councils but the application. So, the items that have come to the Ethics Council, and I remind you that anyone can submit a proposal whether or not the Code of Judicial Ethics has been injured. Why these cases do not need to be asked which proposals can be submitted. And as far as the corruption trial is concerned, the cases are not brought before the courts, but brought by the state's attorneys or damaged as prosecutors. As far as my colleague Garac's case goes, I really don't have any ingenuity. And I would only point out that the legislator's intensity in EU accession was precisely to exclude the presidents of the courts from all possible personnel issues. You remember those expressions about the presidential oligarchy, etc. Therefore, the presidents of the courts were deliberately excluded from the question of the appointment of judges by legislative decisions. As for the President of the Court, they give only an opinion on candidates who are not bound by the State Judicial Council and who have been expelled from the State Judicial Council. So that's the situation. She has both her advantages and her faults. As far as perception goes, don't think she doesn't press the courts or judges. It is a very serious problem, and it would be good if one study would be done in courts, not to be questioned by judges or court officials, but to interrogate those so-called. users of judicial services. This report was once made when the Minister of Justice was Mrs Lovrin in pre-accession objections and in this study, which was conducted by an independent agency, results are much better at perception than they are now showing. That report has never received much public attention, perhaps because the results for the public are unacceptable. As for the election of the President of the Supreme Court and the recommendation of GRECO, don't call it me. The Supreme Court and the General Court and I have personally said several times that the President of the Supreme Court should be elected by judges of the Supreme Court between themselves, perhaps for a short period of time, and that politics from that circle should be excluded. That didn't happen. There are some other solutions, such as in Slovenia, that I do not now enter comparative analysis, but in any case we only took one step in that recommendation of GRECO, but these judges would certainly like to see this recommendation adopted to the end. As far as penalties are concerned, the penalties are the last point in which in my court can be talked about equating court practice because the punishment has to be individualised and it depends on a lot of circumstances that courts evaluate and there is no similar case, I don't mean the same case that there are similar and there are but it's very difficult to even. And the data on penalties are not in the Report because it is in the statistical report of the Statistical Office. But if it's appropriate, I can also bring it in and I agree and I'm not personally a criminal judge, but I think some sentences are hard to explain here to say. As regards the speed of the case in civil matters, the parties do so on a regular basis both 5,000 and some complaints mainly refer to the hasty because there are two parties equally interested in the outcome of the dispute which in criminal cases is not, that I am not now entering my question why the State Attorney's Office has requested that it also deliver its data. As far as the questions of permanent monitoring are concerned, this has been resolved in Dragicevic and Bacic cases. The courts had special judges working on these specific education cases and the issue as an infringement of the European Convention is no longer current. As for the education of young fellow advisors, the School of Judges has just begun. It was reported by over 170 court counselors who attend one - day one - year court education. And the Law on the appointment of judges, or the Law on the State Judiciary Council, has laid down the way in which judges are appointed. It was thus adopted to exclude subjectivity, i.e. subjectivity in the election would be reduced to the least possible measure. Well, now we see that we may have a certain problem in that. As for the merger of municipal and criminal courts, I think it's a good measure, and I think it should be implemented to the end because it can be better, rationally used by people in that above all I think about judges who can then schedule jobs on those jobs where they can give the best results. As regards irregularities in the e-record, they concerned the late entry of certain data. I think it's completely settled now. As far as the Supreme Court's instructions are concerned, they can't exist and abstracto. They can only be in decisions where the positions are presented, and when the two Supreme Court councils in the same matter have different opinions, or different legal views, then the department is equating that case-law and as I have said these opinions are being published. And as far as the number of courts is concerned, it is indeed a matter of legislative authority. Judges aren't interested in having fewer courts. It's in the interest of the judges to have more courts. Here I think I've answered all the key questions in part. If I'm not something, I apologize and I can always answer that specifically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21725	Yeah, stay. We have two more replicas. Mrs. Sandra Bencic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21726	Thank you. Here's the Honorable President, thank you for the answers we've received. I am interested because I have not yet received this concrete answer to the question I asked, which you replied that since the SOA said that it was not so stated in the report on the corruption of judges, you did not do anything, however, in even the SOA's public reports, this was not public but what goes to the DORH and USKOK, but even in the public reports of SOA 2016, corruption is listed as a security risk, and it is also said that there are particularly worrying attempts of corruption within the judiciary. Those are the sentences they write in their reports. I am therefore interested in what has been specifically done over the past year to strengthen the internal detection system of the security risks associated with corruption within the judiciary. And I'd like to know how to treat the security risk or the security disturbances as was the case in Judge Garac's election of judges or their promotion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21727	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21728	Each Judge shall, when appointed, by a decision of the State Judicial Council, pass two checks. One is a psychological check, and the other is a security check, and until the security check goes through, it's.../incomprehensible... and as far as these 20 famous ones are concerned, I have a statement from the head of the SOA that it's not said that 20 judges are a security risk. As far as corruption is concerned, it is a matter of investigative authorities and any judge who has been brought before the court so far on cases that are in the register of corrupt acts, proceedings have been conducted and some have been sentenced to very serious penalties.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21729	And psychologically.../incomprehensible... right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21730	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21731	And psychologically binding, psychologist being.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21732	Yeah, yeah, and psychologically.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21733	It's good. Mrs. Oreshkovic has another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21734	Dear President of the Supreme Court, therefore you are obliged to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament and does not mean anything that you have proposed or did not propose to the Ministry of Justice and to attend some meetings there. If you went to some meetings, you should have listed it in the report, and you didn't. As for the judges' property cards, you repeat the same mantra as Mr. Bosnjakovic. It is unacceptable, which has made it difficult for them to publish publicly for two years. It is clear that your answer is not satisfactory can be obtained on request, not they should be publicly available via the web. And the third thing if you were asked again on several occasions to explain this letter to the DORH then you couldn't answer now I wouldn't answer about it, but you should give a clear explanation of what it was for and why you couldn't get that same information through the internal control system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21735	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21736	As far as publishing property cards is concerned, it was in the jurisdiction of the DSV that my obligation was just to bear it and I think all the judges had submitted their property cards. So the president of the Supreme Judge and the general judge ask about why they're not on the web myself, that's the wrong address. As far as I'm concerned, what else was that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21737	DORH's memo, I'll be pleased if you just explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21738	The intensity is two, the first to compare the data with what the courts have with what the DORH has and to see whether there is a problem with the litigation of the criminal trial, and in which cases it has been precisely because there has been a problem in the speed of judicial proceedings in the criminal branch of the trial. And nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-03-0.u21739	Thank you very much, Mr. Sessa. You're free. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met and, as announced tomorrow morning, we will continue to work at 9:30 with a statement on the amendments, the vote will be at 12:00. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Sleep well and preferably well and dream. Session interrupted at 20.08 hours.
