ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5385	We are going to the seventh debate, dear colleague Stipo Mlinarić, club of MPs of the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5386	The Honorable Chairman, no Serb soldier, nor will the JNA pass here as long as I live. Dear gentlemen, these are the words that mark the strongest strength and determination of a man and a hero who had all my respect as long as he was alive, and will have it as long as I live. Here today I want to mention his heroic name, patriot, hero and my commander General Blago Zadar, who laid his life in Vukovar on 16.10.1991. The most fearless hero of the Homeland War. Now that I'm looking back, and I understand that he knew he had to die for Croatia, it was madness that preparedness and that confidence in generations that came after him and the unwavering belief that the victim made sense. The moment he stood in front of the tanks and said there was no passage for any soldier while he was alive, as if he had already sentenced himself to death knowing that there was no other way to replace him. He didn't go through officers' or working schools, he'd never been in a situation like this before, and no one's trained or trained him for it, but he went through a school of love for his country, so he recognized the hour and was ready for this heroic act. From it he spoke of the determination of similar heroes of Croatian history who had died all these centuries and who stood by his shoulder forever. As he spoke, he was aware that other young lives, including his son Robert, my brother Milet, and other boys from the Yellow Ant Turbo, the Desert Rats, would come after him, that his mission was to shed his own blood to bring a new birth. And if that were the case, the hero Blago Zadar did not gamble with victory or wonder what Croatia would be for which it lays down its life, it was not even a bet that Croatia would defend or survive, even if it believed that in the Homeland War we would not be able to create Croatia equally would have been willing to die, it would have equally believed that it was his mission and that the team would lay their lives to build on the foundations of the eternal creation of Croatia and as a new inspiration to the patriots who would be born and raised after him on that particular sacrifice and heroism. Dear gentlemen, I invite all of you in the ruling majority in the opposition equally to guard and carry that awareness of the preciousness and sanctity of this love and sacrifice for all of us. The most famous heroic victim of Vukovar's defense and the entire Homeland War in this image is without a doubt the most famous heroic victim of Vukovar's defense and the entire Homeland War in this image contained an extremely strong determination and willingness that stands by the shoulders of Šubići, Frankopans, Udbinski victim, Bruno Busic and others who have died throughout all history after Croatia. With the great ALI heroic death of Blaga Zadre is directly embedded in the creation of a modern and modern Croatian state for which we fought for 880 years. Dear gentlemen, I must point out here today that Croatia has not yet placed this hero in a decent place in its monumental culture and how much this place has been missing for new generations. It's a challenge for thinking about artists, politicians, defenders for generations of young people and all of us. This speech is just a brief memory of the sanctity of this sacrifice that I personally place next to the shoulder of the Holy Cardinal Stepinc and which history will only make known and recognize in the times to come. Dear Chief, thank you and easy Croatian land. Your soldier, Stipo Mlinaric Cipe, says hello to you from this assembly of yours. I just want to wish for a quick recovery to the wounded officer tragically what happened two days ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5387	I thank my colleague Mlinaric. Here is a colleague of the Sačić Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So in this tragic time and after this tragic act, it is certainly necessary to give support to all the victims and to thank God that there were no more dead. However, we as responsible people and politicians must approach it in a way that we can analyze why this has happened and what to do to make it no longer happen again or to prevent it from being the least possible measure, which, unfortunately, has not been the case so far. And what we're saying now and what we've heard, it's not pouring oil on the fire as the esteemed Mr. Hrebak says on N1 television this morning. The open debate and as Mr. Grbin spoke today and each of us from the opposition from power should result in solutions that will prevent this tragedy from happening again and we see Croatian sovereigns, and I believe many of our other colleagues will certainly want to see that the government of the Republic of Croatia is the executive government, the MUP...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5427	Comrade Sacic, I'm asking you just a little bit. A colleague can't... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5428	That our services did not do all they had to do to make the state of security on this sacred ground in this part of the executive judicial authority, and everywhere in the Republic of Croatia is within what is common, as is expected. And why didn't they? We have had a lot, we can now comment on stories that would have happened, but we had a lot of indicators concrete that here in this place are extremely large security failures that result in threats, and it is only God's luck that these threats were no longer before, and they were not reacted to the way the profession rules require, as this requires expectations at the level of high standards of behaviour in the EU and outside the EU, in the end as our legislation foresees because it was already the last sign of an alert coming from our fellow Euro-representer today's Sincic with a truck or I don't know what kind of load of watermelons ended up as it ended. We, as police officers, are surprised that as soon as he got there, there were no five intervention officers around him and stopped the story, and we didn't see the whole minute nothing happened everything was unloaded. It's by itself absurd. Now, after that, dear and respected colleagues and the Croatian public, what happened after the world's most likely responsible interior minister or those in charge of security or resign or take certain measures everywhere. I wasn't at all controversial thinking in my head okay, well, now they've made a failure and it's huge, but after that things will change the way we all expect it and how security requires it. But what did we get? None of it, dear and respected, has been done. On the contrary, Minister Bozinovic did nothing to make the incident, but this time with the death result, or with potential deaths, repeat and most regrettable, the most negative in the entire story the Prime Minister reacts in a way that he tells his minister in front of the Croatian public no, he is not guilty and will do so for the next four years. So we have to ask ourselves, what kind of society do we live in when one minister gets from the Prime Minister Bianca's support for four years? So that's why we should scream, why we should talk, why we should stand up, call for resignation, responsibility because I as a police expert know that this problem can be solved in half an hour of rational, reasonable treatment and set things up in a way that citizens do not suffer without security being protected. We did it in the Homeland War, those who are in charge of inviting the experts who broke out of the MUP, detudged them, so they'll give them a solution for about half an hour and we'll all be satisfied, and security will be achieved and human lives won't be lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5429	Thank you, fellow Sacic. As the 9th, a respected colleague, Marin Lerotić, will speak on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5445	Thank you, Vice President. On behalf of the IDS Club, we want a really fast, quick recovery. In the shadow of these ruthless events that took place here in front of the government and the assembly, there remained one very important topic and a document with parts published in certain media. This is about the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030. which should be Croatia's most important strategic development document in the coming decade. This strategy has been discussed since 2017. And it looks like you should see the light of day soon. What we had the opportunity to see in the media sounds nice and wonderful so that this strategy actually reminds us of a large list of good wishes that Croatia should look in the future. In fact, we've all known that a long time ago. We all know that we want to start the economy and encourage private investment, increase efficiency and efficiency of public administration and justice, even regional development, etc. But what we don't know as a state is how to do it. How else do we explain that a national development strategy will soon be published, which says private investment will be encouraged, while at the same time we have a situation where investors are burdened by hundreds of parafiscal burdens, legal uncertainty, too many taxes, which are why the biggest investors plan to leave. Furthermore, as one of the key development directions in the strategy is the same approach to health care and giving an effective response to the health crisis. We've got another problem here. Who will work in the health system when the state blocks the establishment of medical schools, specifically in Pula? A Science and Higher Education Agency as a competent body for the quality assessment of study programmes at Juraj Dobrile University in Pula gave a positive assessment that the Faculty of Medicine in Pula meets all the necessary conditions. Here again we have a situation from which it is visible that Croatian reality is far from the strategic directions and goals that are intended to be posted. And finally, I'm going to specify another developmental direction of the strategy that clearly outlines all the illogicalness of the current system. It is about strengthening regional competitiveness. The IDS has always strongly supported strengthening regional competitiveness, but how it is intended to boost regional competitiveness while the regional development of the Republic of Croatia is based on a development index that punishes more developed regions and introduces the principle of regulation. Instead of applying the concept of asymmetric decentralisation and allowing more developed parts of Croatia to make further progress and thus pull all of Croatia forward. Today we have solutions that not only encourage development but also more developed wolves back. These examples, unfortunately, show that there is no need to expect salvation from some documents whatever they are called if the state does not change the governance and functioning model. Development of the Croatian economy in the next 10 years It must not be based on so much mention, mentioned EUR 22 billion, which we have the opportunity to withdraw from the EU. The economy must have sustainable foundations, and European money should be seen as added value for stronger growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5529	We are now going to the 11th exhibition, respected colleague Dalia Oreskovic, party representatives with a name and name, Smart and GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5530	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs and MPs, on behalf of our club, I would like to express my deep regret about the attempted murder in Mark's square. And also gratitude to all individuals who, by their selfless, instinctively human urge, jumped a wounded officer to help save his life. But human lives must not be left to instinct, nor to coincidences. The fact is that the killer appeared in front of a government building with two types of weapons, as well as anything that followed, from the wounding of a police officer, his transport to a hospital in a sanity vehicle, to the suicide of a murderer in a remote location, raises a number of questions, and to the greatest extent raises questions about the lack of protocol, a rapid reaction to such an event. The way this terrifying event took place shows that there are serious, serious problems in the system. The increased measures in Mark's market that the government is now implementing will not be able to help citizens feel secure, nor will they regain their confidence in the system. The climate of uncertainty in which we live is a reflection of the long-standing concerns and irresponsibility of the ruling political set that dictate from their privileged positions to others rules that do not apply to them as if no law applies to them, nor does any law of this country concern them. Citizens are left to themselves because of an unsettled system, and it has to change urgently. But that also leads us to think about what we can do to act preventively and systematically so that something like this never happens again. We need a sustainable and meaningful system that will also enable the fastest and most effective reaction so that these events never happen again. And why is there no "S" out of security today even though a security programme is being implemented? Why is there no "S" in the system as a whole? Well, because he has no other idea, no solidarity in society, no cooperation between political parties. I often wonder about this pay phone, whenever we have free speeches, or when we're putting ourselves on the subject of someone's law, who are we actually talking to? I often feel like we're talking to ourselves, not each other. If we want to change this critical and bad state, the depravity of society as a whole in which citizens are left to themselves, not one meaningful, fair and efficient state, we must engage in the implementation of structural reforms from which the state has been fleeing for several decades. I call on all opposition political parties that have topics such as territorial reconstruction in their programmes, topics such as reform of electoral legislation, tax discharge and similar large-scale procedures to find ways to co-operate with each other independently on which political starting point and which political colors we initially represent. Without it, this assembly will pass, as all previous ones will, by carrying out the will of the ruling majority, voting the laws that are also addressed to the parliamentary procedure without having passed a quality public debate, and out of the well-being for the citizens or from this call of the Croatian Parliament there will be nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5531	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have come to the end of the debate of representatives' clubs and independent representatives Let's move on. Now it is time for a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja, to be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5555	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is very difficult to talk about the fairness of any system in conditions when in various affairs it is talked about millions of kunas that drive in bags and cars and I say it is difficult and very demanding to talk about problems such as the Executive Law. It is ungrateful to talk about this, especially if in a public debate that announces the adoption of certain laws it all comes down to the story of those who are themselves to blame, then we can be pretty sure that the law or change will not come at least within a short period of time. So it was somehow and always with the performance, yes, many are guilty, living above the possibility, we financially illiterate the nation these are claims, but it is forgotten to say and very little is said that some in this situation have come not by their own fault, that they are paying other people's debts, that they have lost their jobs so that they can't carry out their financial obligations, and the laws and what we should be doing in this House are and should be worked for them, for the protection of all citizens, of course, and the debtors and the creditors and all, but primarily the existent protection of citizens. Debt structure says more than 85% of debtors owe less than 5,000 kuna. The question why don't you get rid of it? They don't give because they don't, or because they think they've been cheated because their debt has been increased ten times. In both cases, we are invited to resolve the situation because we have a group of poor or playful citizens and from the description of the changes to the Executive Act of 2019 it seemed that the past government was on a good track What I am quite sure of in this situation that public notaries, public notaries will not launch the credentials of the 19th of this month, this October 19th, because it is their duty to inform them, so all future perpetrators that they have an executive procedure, 100 000 of them. And this process takes some time, so there's no automation and it can't be. What I doubt, and that's to say that there won't be a tsunami of running an errand by FINA, which is what it should expect to be by FINA because there's a moratorium interrupted by a powerful executive exercise. And the river starts flowing again, it's going to be in 2-3 waves, it's completely irrelevant, but that river begins to flow. Gentlemen, you must know it's the same river, but it's not the same water. This isn't the same water. Some people have lost their jobs, some have died, some of which are important in an uninvited financial situation with existential difficulties. Do we see them? We don't see them, we don't see them, and in the end it turns out that we brought the moratorium more because of the possible pre-election, because of election success, because of the election, but because of the real recording of how many people we have existentially threatened and who we have to exclude, are excluded from the exercise because in the 6th month, the state administration has done nothing. I commend the proposals of the new executive law that were in the debate and should be insisted on, to reduce costs, absolutely need to be insisted, and I don't know why it gave up because it also tells me about possible pre-election calculations. Why did it take so long? Because they were supposed to come into effect in July of this year. We just need to be aware of this and all these proposals will not protect the existential threat, and we do not even recognize them in Croatian society. Because what is the limit of poverty, who are we protecting, what are the criteria? Whether the head of one least municipality, it was recently on, on a television show receiving 11,000 kuna wages, and the municipality does not have 150 inhabitants, should be known by name who is poor and who is existentially threatened. You should. Gentlemen, let's say that we are a state, a social state and a state of social justice, and what we are unable to do, in the city of Milan. makes the city administration far more numerous [[Intruder: Thank you]] from the Croatian administration. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5556	Thank you. We're going to the third debate, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, on behalf of the Independent List Bridges Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5596	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Yes, two days ago there was a tragic event here, one young person lost her life because of it, another young person is in the hospital, but if we want Croatia well, then we have to be brutally honest with ourselves and with others, so we need to ask ourselves one question, why the disgust, what a surprise? Because, 30 years, isn't it logical that this is going on after everything that's been going on for the last 30 years? Because for the past 30 years, it's been sowing up, you've got crimes that don't get sanctioned, you've got corrupt stores, you've got thefts, frauds that don't get sanctioned. You have privileged castes that are more equal in front of the law than others, and that's not sanctioned. So, even with one hate speech, there's a reason. From the scene of this all goes away then those words like humanity, honesty, justice, responsibility, you may recognize those words. Those words are family values, social values, the pillar of society, and when that pillar of society moves, what kind of generations do you think come too hard? What's the matter with them? And what I must point out, those who act publicly, have the greatest responsibility for what models are provided to those who come because they have the greatest influence. What a 30 - year model we have offered to a society that is “good for the good. ” We offered a model for a person who shouldn't bother at school too much. Why, when it is easy to pass and when it is not at all at the cost of an educated person or because of it, it is not necessary to be educated, but it is necessary to pursue as many social contacts as possible. It should be possible, irresponsible, easy, therefore open to corruption and clienteleism, which is the goal of gaining as much as possible, as quickly as possible in any way by trampling anyone. And that's what's the biggest problem. We need to be aware that this model, and we need to be honest with ourselves, this model has been trained with every corrupt shop that hasn't been publicly sanctioned. With every crime that hasn't been sanctioned publicly. With every injustice that has happened in our society that has not been sanctioned. Publicly. And I don't call in any way, any hate speech, it's not too late, it's never too late when we decide to do things differently, but we need to be aware of it, and what we can see today, instead of treating this original problem, is closing St. John's Square. Mark. That reflex is more like a defensive reaction to a wounded animal than a mature reaction to one's responsibility and a conscious man. It won't save us from closing down the squares and streets. I think you should have made that clear. I call on you to solve crimes, to finally know where our dead people are, to solve corrupt acts, clientelem. To make judgment in this country fair, effective. I call on you to ensure the social and financial existence of the family through jobs. Those are the measures. I call upon you to show responsibility with your conduct. And it's not on the theoretical level, it's on a very specific level, in a very short time it can be shown. Soon the same moratorium on top. Are we going to have 100,000 blocked again? Also, will we support an investigative commission that can reduce corruption and clientelem by its actions? Will the students, the 100 grand who are about to lose their rights, be rid of them? These are the little things that ultimately make a difference and do what is called a pillar of society and value. Only children 2 years old are allowed to close their eyes and make the world disappear. If we close our eyes, they'll come back with interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5694	We are going to the 5th debate of dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5695	Yesterday's attack on Mark's square left all of Croatia in shock, but we need to look into the truth and call it the real name as bad as that sounds. It was an act of domestic terrorism. This stems from last night's statement by Police Director Nikola Milina, who said the perpetrator most likely wanted to enter the government, that the motive was not personal and that police were checking all contacts of the perpetrators among whom there are a number of foreign ones. My colleagues and colleagues, it is immeasurably important to put into focus the causes of this attack and to understand the circumstances that led to it. In a special report by the US Ministry of Homeland Security from 2013. about terrorism the perpetrators of the so-called "Terrorism". The lone wolves, the characteristics of such perpetrators are given from a whole series of studies. The following features are highlighted, social isolation, but the connection or exposure to larger groups that are doing some kind of pressure such as political, history of use and access to weapons outside the military or police, depression or history of mental illness, the perceived grudge of a group or part of a system of government and some kind of personal crisis that may be the trigger to attack. I think we can agree that from everything we've wanted so far, we don't want to, we find out about the unsub, we find most of these characteristics. Social exclusion as a result of poverty, links with radical right pressure groups and who knows what else the police will find in the unsub's contacts, blaming political elites for personal and social injustice, access to weapons and ammunition for the rest of the unsub's father from the Homeland War and the crisis that has served as a trigger, which is witnessed by the perpetrators' social media announcements. I must admit, I found it very shocking to read a statement from a fellow Penave who called this attack an act of rebellion misrepresented. I wonder if counterpart Penava would have used the same qualification if the perpetrator had been a Serb nationality or had a Muslim name? That's a rhetorical question. I wonder if fellow Penava would react in the same way if, God forbid, the perpetrator focused his attack instead on the government on a council that does not defend armed police officers but an unarmed Assembly guard? To solve the problem, it's important to call it the right name. So I repeat, this wasn't a riot, this was an act of domestic secluded terrorism. In particular, it concerns the reaction of a part of the public, especially young people to this act of violence that corresponds to what counterpart Penava said, approval, gratitude, praise to the perpetrators, and it seems to me that statements like that fellow Penava, whom I sincerely hope to have been inadmissible, legitimise this act of violence. How can we begin to solve the problem? To begin with, I can tell you that we don't have to solve it. We do not need to solve it by insulating Mark's square from the rest of Croatia and trickling to the teeth by armed police officers. We thus send a message that drives water to the perpetrators' mill, that we are all MPs and citizens' representatives one of the born elites who does not work in their own interests but in their own interests. This does not mean that there is no need to reevaluate the adequateness of protection of officials and objects, it just means that protection measures must be proportionate to the security assessment, but the emphasis, if we are talking about protecting citizens first and foremost. We can solve the problem by reducing poverty, reducing the social exclusion of young people, introducing civic and democratic education, reducing social injustices and finally understanding the problem of social violence in Croatia. We're all here reading reports from colleagues and colleagues, we all know how worrying the numbers are about domestic violence, violence against women, peer violence. It's about time we did something about it. In time, then, we may become a society where a young man will not have the need to turn terrorism on account of the pressure of social injustices and various predatory groups that such individuals are eager to instrumentize.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5741	Now we're going to the 10th debate, dear colleague Ante Deur on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5742	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. First of all, today we have a memorial in Sotina, one anniversary of the murder of Serbian aggression. And something that, as a human and as a Croatian defender, we must certainly bow down and feel that one human and God's empathy and consciousness towards our people, but we must remember and wish this officer of ours a Croatian and his quick recovery, his family to truly be brave because he must be going through a difficult period. But we have two families who, unfortunately, are experiencing a difficult moment in this time, the family of this young man who did it as simply as we do today in our consciousness can't understand what happened and what offered him to this act which is terrifying, where there's no excuse. But we must not allow us here as parliamentarians and not as a society to do sogmatizing towards Croatian defenders, according to the family, that every article arises, these are Croatian defenders, whether today, after 30 years of the Homeland War, we have value or we are still activists of accusations, insults and attempts to create personal values of certain situations. This is one difficult moment that happened as I said about these families, but also about us as a community, for the Croatian government, for all people who have consciousness, which is that something could happen that God can't even imagine. Croatian defenders today and members of their families spend some time in their homeland what we all dreamed, where we were young men like young men back in the '90s. We are the example of the society and the community in which we live. Homeland war is the foundation of the Croatian state, regardless of here, gentlemen, in which party someone was or joined. Whoever had the power and courage in that time, my love, had the privilege of being part of that time that President Tudjman, the Croatian people called and this is the Croatian homeland that we all enjoy here today. Let us not allow these values to be lost, to try to offend each step, to identify Croatian defenders and the Homeland War, once with a very bad, inappropriate and inhuman speech. All together we must understand our families who today are looking for their missing sons, fathers, parents, let us give these people support from here, let us support our Ministry of Croatian Defence and the Croatian Government who has done a lot for 4 years, in which no minister has done so much and put forth so much effort. There's a lot of work to do. For 30 years, there's a lot of trouble from some governments in the former system and ministers who have lost value and forgotten what we're talking about. This Croatian government and Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved, Stjepan Sucic, can indeed say that this is the value we are all looking for together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5743	Thank you, colleague Deur. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Mlinarić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5744	238, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Deur, I think when I listen to your speech that you're in opposition, so you've been in Pantochaka for five years, now you're in power, solve those problems you're making of the missing and everything because this is how it turns out to be really demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5745	Comrade Mlinarić, this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, what you have done is now a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I will give you a warning. I ask you not to do this, you have ways in which you can either replicate in the debate or in your free speech with you could speak but this is not a simple way. Here you are, colleague Deur, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5746	238. First of all, unfortunately, we must not build any system, that is the value of every Croatian man, the missing Croatian defenders and civilians are not, that is what every Croatian government, I just wanted to say that this government and Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved doing the best job of that time, [[Breaking president: colleague Deur.]] We all know what Fred Matic and his crew did. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5747	Comrade Deur, this isn't even a breach of the Rules of Procedure right now, and you've now responded to the replica, so I have to give you a heads-up too. My colleagues and colleagues, please stick to the rules that we have defined in our Rules of Procedure. We're going to the 4th debate, Club of Representatives of the SDSS esteemed colleague Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5772	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDSS Club, I express my deepest regret for the loss of one young life and the grave threat to the health of another young life. I would also like to say that I have a feeling that other than these two young lives, many young lives in our society go through different kinds of trials. Some of them were mentioned here by my esteemed colleague, Dr. Petrov, who I probably disagree with in a number of things, but now I'm standing in the same position he stood in and from which he spoke. Many young lives are under trial, whether to stay in their own country, or to go to someone else. Whether to raise their hands on someone or not. Whether to steal instead of work, whether to drug or try to resist sins. So evil is much wider than this most drastic thing that has happened and we must not close our eyes before it. We, fathers, brothers, sisters, who sit in this highest representative body of this people and this society, have a special responsibility for this. Special responsibility in how we speak ourselves, how much in our own words do we encourage hatred for other different religions, different nations, different political beliefs, different political positions, and how much do we contribute to our society being governed by a culture of debate, not reckoning? We here together with a series of others should finally end the war in all his sights. And we started a few months ago, but some want to continue it, some of the messages that our colleagues here from the assembly say should be armed because there are those who slaughtered and raped. What kind of messages are these? Who has the right to these messages? Others say institutions need to be broken down, they need to be confronted. In other words, what little of this country and its representatives should be destroyed. I'm not judging anyone, but I'm just asking a question. Isn't it time to start thinking differently? A few weeks ago, we could see how a public medium is the one we support here announcing its new scheme, you know from which three basic messages? War, football and sea and tourism. Is that all this country has? Where's the work? Where's the education? Where's the Enlightenment? Where's science? Where's the farm? Where's the factory? Where it is, are the values Dr. Petrov, the moral values we've known since the first minded people, to those who took her over in the greatest religion we belong to? And finally, let's turn to perspective, we can't fix the past, we can't change it, but the future must make it more reliable for young people to believe in themselves, to believe in other people. those faiths in our society are gone. [[Intruder: Thank you]] There's all kinds of others, but you're gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5773	Thank you, fellow Pupovac. We are now going to debate number six, dear colleague Predrag Štromar on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5777	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, first of all, would like a quick recovery from a wounded police officer and a desire to have no consequences after this act, and condolences would be expressed by the families of the deceased young person who committed the act. However, we must think as has already been said today, how to enable young people to live better and better, to have one security in the Republic of Croatia, which measures, which make it easy for them young people to live here in quality, well, to have their family continue to live and work in Croatia. One of these options is, and that's exactly what the Ministry of Construction is on, in fact, now a spatial arrangement with a tender for subsidising the apartments of young families. Here's another day and this contest will end and more than 3,000 will surely be young people who will solve their living issue with this particular model. So far 13,000 young people have already solved their housing issue, has a roof over their heads thanks to that model, I think it is one of the best demographic measures in the Republic of Croatia. However, this measure ends this year, and I would like to appeal to the government to prepare an amendment to the law that we have already prepared in the previous term and to allow for that measure in the coming years. In fact, this measure can be only until 31 December of this year and we see that it is of real quality, there are many interested ones, so I suggest that the Government refer to a single amendment to the law, which would be that in the Law on subsidisation of housing loans in Article 1(2), the word ‘until 31 December 2020 for each calendar year or budget year’ is replaced by ‘for each calendar year or budget year on the basis of the Minister’s decision’. This means that the measure could be further implemented in the coming years and that young people could still count on it to be more quality, cheaper than it is on the market and more favourable to reach its apartment. I'd just like a few words on that scale. So, either an apartment or a house is purchased or a house is built where the RH credit war budget is subsidized between 30 and 51% depending on where the space is bought or built a house or bought an apartment. It is a local self-government or city or municipality development index. The measure is less than 45 years old, and the subsidy is extended by 2 years for each newborn child in that family at the time of the use of the loan, and last year we changed the law, and since this year the extension of the loan war is and for a year for a child already born in that family. So let's say that if the family has two children and two more are born, the subsidy is 11 years for such families. My proposal is also to continue with the measure of POS, to build more POS's apartments, but to go into a larger building of POS for rent. In fact, the habits of young people have changed for a variety of reasons, but now it's not a priority for everyone to buy real estate but for someone to have a job, to change jobs from place to place, and then to rent apartments is the most favourable. We currently have very few apartments for rent, we also notice at the prices of these rentals and I appeal to provide funds for the construction of such apartments, apartments for rent. We are all aware of this pandemic of the coronary virus, but behind it this pandemic has left uncertainty in the financial sense and the negative consequences of the economy, but young people need to be given a roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5778	Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Honorable MPs, Your Honor, I wish you a good morning. Before we begin today's work, let me express my support for the wounded young policeman and his family and wish him a quick recovery. I thank the same thing to all police officers who have sacrificedly and dedicatedly done their job for the safety of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you to those citizens who came first to help the wounded officer. On behalf of the Croatian Parliament and I personally strongly condemn this attack that took place on Monday in St. Mark's Square outside the government building of the Republic of Croatia. I also condemn the speech of hate and intolerance that appears on social networks and every form of violence in society. I invite all of you colleagues and colleagues to work together daily to suppress all forms of hatred, radicalism and prejudice that can lead to violence. I call on you also to promote democratic society in the spirit of dialogue, tolerance and openness that rests on mutual understanding, respect for differences, equality and respect for every man. Now we're going to go to work, and there's a colleague named Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5802	I'd like to request a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5803	He can't ask for a break right now, you can ask for a break when we start on the agenda, first there's a free speech. So, after the free speech when we start with the agenda points, you can ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5804	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5805	Thank you very much. So let's go with the free speech. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, a respected colleague of the Pedja Grbin. I would also like to congratulate you on your election for the president of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5806	Dear Mr. President, first of all, thank you for your congratulations. Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues allow me to join the wishes for a quick and successful recovery of a police officer who, unfortunately, was wounded in this senseless act of violence on Monday. Also let me thank all the officers, all the guards, who guard both the assembly building and the government building, all those who jumped in to help the wounded officer. Unfortunately, only happiness in the accident prevented this foolish act of violence that we witnessed from ending worse, perhaps even the aftermath of death. And it's precisely because it's not just about wanting to get better today with a small but still, I want to talk about what happened Monday, but I also want to talk first of all about what's personal, and I believe that I'm not alone in it, because of what's important for understanding this event on Monday. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think we have long witnessed numerous cases of violence in Croatia. Violence is happening in our streets, violence is happening in our markets, in our cafes, in our stadiums. And what is very often behind this violence is the speech of hatred and the glorification of the very violence that is taking place more and more in our society. Almost every day, someone is attacked because of his national or religious background, sexual commitment, or sex, and we do not respond systematically to that in society, just here and there, responding to convictions, sometimes not to convictions. So we have a situation that even some politicians, MPs, the mayor of Vukovar, are relativating this kind of violence and even justify it, and that's not good. Such behavior, such behaviour, such relativation has the consequence only of creating new acts of violence that will lead to victims tomorrow or the day after. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, I support you in the condemnation of the violence you said at the beginning and at the opening of this session, but that's not enough. We can't just stay on convictions, we have to start doing something concrete, and what we are witnessing today in Mark's square, barricades and increased police presence is nothing more than trying to present something, because as violence today happened in Mark's square could have happened in Ban Jelačić Square, Zrinjevac, or in some Croatian town that is not Zagreb, and we are only protecting this one square. However, not only are we protecting one square but the government is clearly trying to use this act that took place on Monday to get away from the public, move away from the media, get away from journalists, and try to stop journalists in their legitimate work, which is to ask the ministers before state institutions questions, which is not good. And it certainly won't prevent the act we witnessed on Monday. What could happen, which I have not heard of from the authorities and the ruling days, is to take certain concrete steps to fight violence from the very beginning. The first one is only one, but the first one is certainly the introduction of civic education, where we will teach our children from the youngest legs that violence is not the answer to problems. The second active action is both the police and the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary to prevent hate speech. The hate speech is not quite verbally condemned from the parliamentary pay phone, it is necessary that our institutions too, I will repeat the police, the state's attorney's office and the judiciary launch procedures to show that Croatia will indeed not tolerate hate speech. Only in this way will we come to the conclusion that we will not only want to heal one person who is wounded in the performance of his duty but also commit measures that will lead to the healing of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5807	Let's move on. Second debate of the Club of Representatives. Here's my colleague, Skoro, in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5808	Thank you very much. He's been injured. In 238, Mr. President, I congratulate you on your return to the assembly, Mr. Grbin, and I congratulate you on your choice, but you've hurt your rank. 238, because you have apostrophe of a parliamentary representative based on his statement. I don't think there were any things in his statement that you put in the context of hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u5809	My colleague Škoro is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the coat of arms has delivered his opinion, you have delivered your opinion. You could have said that here from the pay phone, and this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have reached the end of the discussion of the clubs of representatives and independent representatives, and before we move on to the debate on the first point of today's schedule, the Committee on Justice proposed the basis of Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to conduct a joint discussion on the following two points, the report on the work of probation services for 2019 and the report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions for 2019. Are we okay with that? If so, we will conduct a united debate on the proposed points. We are now moving to the first item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, first reading, P.Z.E. No 36 The proposal is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I will now ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation of this bill. With us is respected Josip Salapic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8958	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The law supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation with EU Member States shall govern the area of legal cooperation, judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the EU Member States and the signatories of the EU accession agreement. Obligations under this law began for the Republic of Croatia on 1 July 2013 on the day of full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. The area regulated by this law is a European arrest warrant, a European investigative order, a recognition of the execution of decisions on fines, a recognition of the execution of sentences sentenceing prisons or measures involving the withdrawal of liberty, the recognition of the execution of judgments and decisions imposing trial measures or other alternative sanctions as a European protection order and other procedural means. With this bill of law, we are going to the seventh additions to the law. The reason for the re-addition is to install implementing provisions in relation to the 2018 EU Regulation of 1805 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on the recognition of freezing orders and the confiscation order applicable in the EU Member States since 19 December 2020. Following that, the procedural rules of 2003 and 2006 shall cease to apply and Regulation 2018/1805 shall enter into force on the day of the entry into force of the EU Regulation. It relates to all EU Member States except Ireland and Denmark, which have different implementing rules regarding the problem of confiscation of assets. As regards the authorities responsible for accepting and recognising, and for issuing the freezing order for confiscation of assets, the same authorities as in previous regulations in the Republic of Croatia. This law provides for the usual legal time limit for the entry into force of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8959	We've got a replica, and I can see that my colleague Bulj called, and it means two. Comrade Bačić, you're the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8960	Thank you, esteemed president of HS. A fellow secretary of state. I'm going to extend this judicial co-operation a little bit and ask you more questions about international criminal aid. We know that, in judicial cooperation, things go with a majority of automation, international legal aid goes on demand between one country and the other, so here I am particularly interested in your opinion, but also in the position of the Ministry of Justice about contracts and agreements with third countries, specifically related to international legal assistance with our neighbours here and specifically with BiH, because I think we have the most problems in criminal matters, especially in terms of extradition and trial and any interests we have towards certain perpetrators, so I'm wondering how the negotiations are going just for third countries, specifically for international legal aid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8961	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8962	Thank you very much. A respected colleague regulates co-operation between EU Member States. As for the international agreement you mentioned between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, there are certain problems, but they concern situations concerning dual citizens, Croatian and BiH citizens. The justice ministry is making every effort, we have additional annexes to an international agreement where we do not recognise the decisions of the BiH courts when it comes to the powerful verdicts handed down in the Republic of Croatia, so that convicts who go outside the Republic of Croatia cannot return to Croatia until they have served their sentence legally in the Republic of Croatia. It was individual cases that unfortunately crossed this agreement, but here are the additional changes in previous years in 2017, '18, '19. We're trying to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8963	Now it's my colleague Milanovic litre's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8964	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Minister Salapic. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 5. of this law states that "the Ministry is a competent coordinating body providing and judicial cooperation." [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] My question, how many times has the ministry coordinated on the extradition of persons in the period since '91. '95. The years committed crimes in Croatia, and they weren't tried in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8965	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8966	Thank you very much. This is a procedural issue that has nothing to do with the Law on Judicial Cooperation, so I do not know the exact number, but this concerns the subject of judicial cooperation between EU member states. In another committee, I can answer that, but these are processes that have nothing to do with Croatia's entry into the EU or judicial co-operation in criminal matters between EU Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8967	And fellow Bull, you're the third.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8968	Thank you very much. Secretary of State. We often prescribe EU regulations, we know that our penitentiary, we know the exact number of people who are in the penitentiary, but there are difficult conditions in the penitentiary, and there are those who have easy conditions because of the good money being raised. I don't think you of this law on international cooperation will achieve anything if we don't introduce a law on the origin of the property is to return... is of course what Mr. Kovacic's interest now or don't know those who were at the club if they're locked up for a few weeks in a penitentiary or a few years when they robbed them. The money they robbed should be returned and the penitentiary offices in the Republic of Croatia and better conditions for prisoners who may not have robbed the money because there are the same just ones, there may be more of those who have committed crimes for freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8969	Thanks, buddy Bull. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8970	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Here, he should answer some procedural questions concerning judicial cooperation with EU member states. This is specifically about the new rules on the confiscation and freezing of the property of the perpetrators of criminal offences with which the Republic of Croatia as a full member of the EU has co-operation in criminal matters, so it covers only Member States, not third countries. Now these are questions that you may be able to ask in the next debate on the report on the situation in prisons, penitentiary offices and educational institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8971	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, we go to the first club of MPs, it's SDP respected colleague Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8972	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the EU Member States, and the reason for its adoption is to ensure the implementation of EU Regulation 2018/1805 of the EU Parliament and of the Council. The objective of this Regulation is to facilitate cross-border confiscation of illegally acquired assets and the implementation of effective freezing and confiscation of funds of illegal origin in the EU. The regulation is part of an action plan developed by the European Commission to strengthen the fight against terrorist financing by ensuring that criminals are deprived of property. The vast majority of Europeans view organised crime and terrorism as major security threats in the EU. According to Europol, more than 5,000 organised crime groups are currently being investigated in Europe. Organized crime serves to gain profits, and large profits are made in illegal activities under such crime. Organized crime groups are easy to adapt to new developments and are constantly looking for new ways to avoid detection. Europol estimates that only about 2% of the property benefit achieved by criminal acts is frozen in the EU and only 1% is subtracted. In this way organised crime groups can invest in expanding their criminal activities and penetrating the legal economy. It is clear that the value of the assets currently seized in the EU is not in line with the expectations of the law enforcement bodies or the public as well as in the Republic of Croatia. This puts public trust in public institutions and the rule of law at risk, and the worst of all is that individuals take justice into their own hands, which in general leads to tragedy both for individuals and for society. It is estimated that the property benefit achieved through organised crime in the EU currently amounts to around 110 billion euros annually. It is also estimated that 0.7 to 1.28% of Europe's annual GDP refers to suspicious financial activities. The confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts is the most important measure in the fight against criminals and terrorists because it is known that criminals are the most hurt when they are hit by a pocket and taken away by property, either motionless or mobile, which they have acquired by the criminal part and have already planned to enjoy the grace of acquired wealth with the sound of waves, under palm trees, with cocktails in hand and feet in the sand. The confiscation of property is not intended for the state to come to some material advantage because in this case the state would be participating from the profits achieved by criminal acts, but rather aims to keep the property out of the hands of criminals and to return to the damages and the social community. Therefore, the SDP Club will support the proposal for this law supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the EU Member States. In the case of 32 offences listed in art. 3. The regulation which is the basis for the additions of this Act is also the freezing and confiscation of enforcement without double jurisdiction in our very current criminal acts, participation in the criminal association, corruption and laundering of property benefit achieved by criminal acts. The perpetrators of crimes in the Republic of Croatia do not lag behind the weight, scope and creativity of which they are used to cloud the trail of money, art, vehicles, vessels and other movables, as well as the properties that are registered to relatives, godfathers and so on. Friends. So while the vast majority of Croatian citizens barely survive in another crisis, this time caused by the Covida-19 pandemic, the president of the JANAF administration flees from police with bags packed with millions of euros to hide them in his friend's garage in Samobor, who has no idea that his hunting is in the garage. And there's a miracle, near the state border so it can slip across the border. The saddest of all that this corrupt affair is related to JANAF, a public company of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia and the withdrawal of public money in private pockets in the context of trade in influence, is another beginning of the judicial tape, as in the case of Sanader or Nadan Vidosevic. If public companies are our money drawers for private purposes, the question is what are the supervisory departments doing. Not to mention the withdrawal of money in conversion and privatisation that is no longer spoken of, except when some Gucic appears there with a demand to buy an entire palace in Smiciklas. By the time that corrupt octopus releases its tentacles. The judiciary doesn't cry out for reform, it cries out with a reformer, but I don't think she's in the picture. It would be good if the minister of justice and the administration were to get a vest because he is dealing with individuals who are networked into organised criminal groups. Our legislation sets out criteria for helping the national court to determine whether the property in question has been acquired by illegal action, e.g. whether there is a disproportionate between the legitimate incomes of a particular person and the value of its assets or its financial situation and lifestyle. But then we're witnessing that such things, you see miracles, always with the most famous lawyers out of the bar of justice, and they're able to prove by some miracle that the art paintings were given on a gift, that they've earned a lot of millions by their honest work and acquired real estate by inheritance and donation. When Nadan Vidosevic, then president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, was arrested in November 2013, police only excluded 444 art worth 14.3 million kuna from his villa at Prekrižje. 6 years later Vidosevic proved the legality of the origin of family property is going very well because after several financial and economic skills disproportionate to the incomes and expenditures of the Vidosevic family fell from 33 million to 9 million kuna. Of course, the man is capable, so he rented his blocked property in the Gorski Kotar at 10 million kuna for weddings over the weekend for 2,500 euros. The Ministry of State Property shall keep records of the temporary and permanent segregated cases and the property benefit of the criminal offence achieved, and the Minister responsible for State Property shall adopt a regulation governing the management of that record. The Ministry of State Property is spending a lot of money on temporary assets, over two hundred thousand kunas. By 15.2. this year 33 million kunas were temporarily taken away and 3.8m euros were blocked and 620 properties with 185 million kuna worth, worth. When we talk about the management of frozen and confiscated assets in the Republic of Croatia, we haven't exactly celebrated, for example. It is worth mentioning the tape about cannabis production equipment that the Ministry of State Property decided to donate to the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb worth about 100 thousand kunas that were taken away in a police action, but without ours, but because of our famous bureaucracy is not used for scientific and research purposes because the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Science and Education cannot agree who is in charge. Therefore, the competent Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property should now pro-actively manage the temporary and permanent assets seized in order not to result in more savings than would be the social benefit of renting or selling movable or immovable property, provided that we have an up-to-date record of that property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8973	We're going to another club. It is the bridge of independent lists, dear colleague Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8974	I thank the president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. With this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States for the 7th time, we are going to implement the provisions adopted by the EU in our legislation in accordance with our obligations when we enter the same and international, cooperation on criminal law and the delivery of consumables and offenders, and we have not, above all, resolved our criminal law, both civil and any other. Well, for years, despite the fact that we've been witnessing criminal acts and criminal acts in every pores of institutions and institutions in the Republic of Croatia, and we haven't dealt with them, it's quite a funny approach. In fact, the country in which citizens, and I personally condemn the act and way, take justice into their own hands by seeking justice in the accounts whether on the streets or shooting at the institutions of the Croatian state without anyone trying to ask the question of the causes of the same ones is actually at least a troubled country and the security of the same, as well as the politics of the same. We forgot that the people chose us, and we were responsible for him by our work. Unless we're ready to serve the people and work for the people, we should stand down, but everyone, absolutely everyone. The law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters has been changed six times so far. This is the 7th time. It is a cosmetic change that does not analyse at all the existing law and the existing state of law, the implementation difficulties, the need for legislative interventions, etc. We'll probably have an 8th or a 9th maybe change of law. But what's changing now is that we're going to have a law with seven changes. In that forest, changes are difficult for a professional, let alone for the citizens, and this happens with most of the laws that are passed in the Republic of Croatia. The bodies to be determined by this amendment to the law of acceptance and recognition and the issue of freezing and taking orders were not asked at all before the adoption of such amendments to the law, nor were they asked what they were thinking, nor were they going to be, or were there at all, the implementation difficulties mentioned. This approach to amending the law should also change people who work every day in the application of these and apply this law should actually ask what they think about the same. The fact that the amendments to the law have been put on e-consultation and that none of the interested public has written anything is an indication of transparency and concern but is in fact an indicator of the mere formalities of the satisfaction of the form to make the proposed text public in this way, and when one of the citizens reacts and writes it eventually ignores it anyway. We need to change our awareness of the procedure of passing the laws themselves because we forgot the key thing, which is that the judiciary revives our laws, it applies them every day, sees shortcomings and space for improvement. I don't understand why we don't ask them, but we impose on them the obligation to do these things, and then when there's trouble in the implementation itself, the trees and the stones on them. Those who need to implement this law, more specifically human resources that will implement the provisions of this law on the ground, are those who need to expose themselves, their life, their family, and themselves are originally not protected. All these people who are in the system and need to protect us and practice the provisions of this and all the other laws have long been brought down in public eyes to the level of actually illiterate earrings, and underpaid, and not nearly raised to the pedestal that belongs to them, is just as ridiculous a policy as the process of passing this law itself. Human resources are not protected by nothing, starting with crazy working hours in which they do extra hours through their security while on duty, up to the very height of the pay, and protecting us and protecting us with their lives, and the conditions of their work need not be spoken of. These supplements are nothing more than a bunch of procedural procedures related to the European arrest warrant, blockade and confiscation of assets, cooperation in investigations and not to mention. Legal definitions in the Croatian state have never been better, and on the other hand there has never been any more crime. The only positive side of these actually complements is to facilitate judicial cooperation within the EU, and this is a kind of fat heel of our EU membership. MOST of Independent Lists will support the bill and amend it. And in conclusion, we could all use a single dose of self - criticism, both in our personal life and in the laws this home of course brings. And I'll end up thinking Bruno Busic. He says, I'm beginning to believe that too much self-criticity is equal to no self-criticity. The extremes are always stupid, and I'm made upside down from the wrong material. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8975	We are now going to the 3rd Club of Representatives, the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, the two representatives who speak, colleagues Zekanovic and colleagues Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8976	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We're talking about judicial cooperation. I'll be specific, and I've talked about this subject many times. What about the warrants for the perpetrators of the heinous crime in Cengic, Ervenik, near Knin? It was '92. It's 2020. There's no warrant. I'll just mention it briefly, I'm talking about judicial cooperation. Why do we not use this judicial co-operation specifically to bring in Kovacevic, Slobodan Kovacevic, Damir Travic, who even served something, and six others do not mean that we are not sanctioning or sanctioning a disgusting crime that they committed before the 28th year.? It's just, I'll remind you, about the murder of parents and two underage children who were only 11 and 5. Secretary of State, why isn't there a BOLO? This is the third time, I'm asking this question from this pay phone and I have no answer. So, why isn't there a BOLO? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8977	Now, counterpart Milanovic litre will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8978	Thank you, dear President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. The law on judicial co-operation in criminal matters with EU Member States depolitises important procedures through judicial cooperation tools, including the handover procedure that takes place at court level through, which is now, pardoned, at the level of the courts through the European arrest warrant. It tries to bypass all political obstacles set by stakeholders, parties or individuals. Unfortunately, in Croatia, depoliticisation tools have encountered a already politicised judicial system or system where courts are under pressure from political structures. In key cases relating to politically exposed persons or politically sensitive subjects, the impact of justice policy is tangible. The tools of judicial co-operation in criminal matters are particularly interesting in terms of the processing of war crimes since suspects of such crimes have also found refuge in EU Member States. Or in countries with which the EU has co-operation. So we can read in our media that certain perpetrators of crime are hiding in England, in which a European arrest warrant is still being applied under the Retrieval Treaty, Art. 62. The withdrawal agreement of the Republic of Britain shall read: The Council Framework Decision shall apply to a European arrest warrant if the requested person is arrested before the expiry of the transitional period until 31 December 2020 for the purpose of carrying out the European arrest warrant, regardless of the decision of the judicial authority on the detention of the requested person or of its temporary release or in Norway with which the EU has signed the Agreement on surrender. Since they're people in the '91s. '95. commit crimes in Croatia, in this way available to the Croatian judiciary, the question arises why do our courts not use that possibility? Since the secretary of state is obviously not familiar with the cases that are subject to this law, which refers to war crimes, it is concluded that in terms of war crimes, Croatian ministries do not deal at all and should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8979	Now it's the House of Homeland and Honored colleague Davor Dretar's Club, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8980	Dear ladies and gentlemen, welcome Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, we are pleased to have you back in good health, dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is short on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, we understand, of course, when a law has 7 articles that, as some colleagues and colleagues have already said, it is actually only a small adjustment, reading or whatever it is you want to do, so that, until the end, judicial cooperation in these criminal matters of our judicial authorities and those Europeans. Of course, there is no dispute, and the Homeland Movement will support this bill, and it is quite clear, although it does not offer a very inspiring topic in this place for discussion either here in the assembly or through e-consultation where we have noticed that the interested public did not leave a single comment in the time prescribed. So, we will support this, there is no debate about it, but what gives great inspiration for speech to each of us, every day and every moment is the situation in the Croatian judiciary, and about this Homeland movement there is always much to say as usual, and all those who do call it so, ordinary Croatian people and in whose name we have both the right and the obligation to speak 24 hours a day. An inefficient and strictly controlled judiciary in the worst form is shown just when he finds large corruption affairs on his desk that are unfortunately never missing in this small country. What is truly worrying and what ultimately leads to such terrible acts that we all together and the public have witnessed this Monday, and here for these windows, is one of the results of such policies. People feel they're not even, that someone is a little bit more equal and, unfortunately, they're mostly right. Since we are here today harmonising our functioning with the European judicial system, it seems to me that a good idea has recently come to me that I fully believe we should all support, which is to give up one piece of our sovereignty, which is the sovereignty of our judiciary, so that we leave corruption affairs to foreign courts and foreign judges in the hope that we will finally see rapid prosecutions, concrete evidence actions and, of course, ultimately, quick and just judgments, because if we agreed to participate in some sporting competitions by foreign judges in order to ensure impartiality, I do not see why in particular in corruption and economic crime, we would not open the door to the possibility that independent judges from EU countries judge who is right here, who is wrongly and thus, give us legitimacy and all of us here not to prevent the irregularities that we may be able to tell you that sometimes the words that are in question, and that they would be challenged by the people who are a little bit. According to corruption perception indices, you know, we are mostly among middle to very corrupt countries, and that is what we have to discuss a lot, the whole system and the executive and judicial authorities don't work well, sometimes there are consequences that traumatize both individuals or the entire family, in the most difficult cases end or attack on human lives or the loss of human lives. In this bill of law which is so, very short and summed up, but the law itself is interesting, so I'll say, I'll say a few words about a European order for protection which guarantees protection for victims of violence or abuse throughout the EU, which is absolutely fine and again on this little piece of land, sometimes and unfortunately often, it happens serious failures, so the abusers and abusers are most often the worst ones of the family after they beat up their wife, let them home after just a few hours or days, just so that the victims heal the wounds in order to inflict new, sometimes fatal ones. When such difficult cases happen against innocent wives or children, the whole public is appalled by the full right of how someone released such a person, such a monster, has already been arrested or even imprisoned for the same acts. So the Homeland Movement will participate in changing these legal provisions and insist on their rigid respect so that such things never happen again. New additions to the Law on judicial cooperation also prescribe a lot of rules relating to the European arrest warrant. There is not much to talk about, there were already words here about him, mostly valid for all EU members, every person for whom it has been called must be extradited within a maximum of 60 days, there is no possibility of refusing to surrender their own citizens, and I am at one point when I was preparing for this debate today even found in one very strange position of thinking that it would not be bad to be BiH, so don't immediately anger Serbia in the EU, let me explain, of course, because if this were the case, it would not be possible for convicted thieves and criminals to hide in BiH, mostly prefer Hercegovina, and from there they would be allowed to all of us and to wave the money they stole in our face, and it would not be possible for war criminals, murderers and rapists without fear to walk their mother to Serbia, but would finally be delivered here in front of justice. Now, before the end and a few words about all of us here in the assembly, and of course a question to those who send us topics to discuss each day or week. With my great respect for the work of port administrations, according to sports events, the sale of popcorn in stadiums, I think we have a much more serious topic. Why, for three weeks now, the debate here in this assembly has not been about the work of the State Attorney's Office and the state of the court's office, a very serious topic, not only at this moment, but also about the general topics that the public expects us to talk about here and get a good whiff in this debate. I don't want to reciprocate the importance of anything we're discussing here, but the fact is that while the house is on fire, we can't comb. So why are we wasting our energy and time on not so much important debates that we can also get through the parliamentary committees, so that's what we're afraid of, why and until we're thinking of avoiding the debate on the current perhaps most important topics not only for us, not just for Croatian politics, but also for people who are nervous, people who are frustrated, people who are hung over their heads by Damocle's sword of recent executions. I know a couple of people who haven't paid the directorship in five, six months, not because they don't want to, but because they don't have income, they don't, so they've been taken away from the basic human right to work, taken away from them, we can freely tell them one of the fundamental human freedoms. And in the end, I remembered some interesting things that make people particularly interested in getting envelopes when they think of the Croatian judiciary, so let me say almost, in a comedian style to tell you two cases, I believe you'll recognize them, the former director of a large state-owned company then in 100% ownership of the Republic of Croatia has signed up to live in a small cottage in Croatia Zagorje when the State's Attorney tried not to live there because he pays water and electricity in the amount of 20 kuna per month, defended himself in court that he comes late from work, goes to the spa, takes a bath, showers there, and then comes in his life we call him so space not burning the light and wasting water. To believe me, one of us tried to defend ourselves in this way before the court be sure that he would be referred to the current psychiatric skill, and here we recently learned another about the Golden Kuna winner and he was in the process against a very cheerful friar and his attractive banker, first told the State's attorney that he knew where the money was stored which he had disappeared, but then he decided to change his statement and let me quote: "A few hours before the meeting I was at the pool, the water entered my ears, and in my eyes the chlorine entered, and I didn't hear the best, nor saw what was discussed at that meeting," so I really believe that this is a very good basis for a humorous series, and on one of the more creative here to call it further. Mostly the Homeland Movement will support these amendments to the bill because we believe that we must go further and that we must regulate not only cooperation with the European judicial system, but primarily and fundamentally our own Croatian judiciary because it is one of the foundations of the equal state and the trust of Croatian citizens in all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8981	Thank you very much, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8982	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MOST Club, I request a recess on the law on judicial cooperation in criminal proceedings. This is a very important topic, but this law is makeup and makeup while criminals with robbed money walk the Republic of Croatia. Not only BiH, we call for those who rob go to BiH, I have such examples in sports, who have been in sport, who have milked money in the economy, but robbed the Republic of Croatia through associations, clubs or I don't know what kind of organisations, so we'll start with the INE. There's no excuse for either HDZ or SDP, who started robbing INU, white nights, who ended up, HDZ Sanader, i.e. Not Sanader, but his associates, and Slavko Linic here. We've been robbed of telecommunications, which he won for the prize of what he gave privatisation, became the director of T Coma foreign German firm, received awards, had no money at all. Those who privatised the banks that the Croatian people had received more than they had been paid became the main people in the Privredna Bank of Zagreb when it became a party, so here everything is clear and crystal clear, and you have brought down four sentences for us here to prescribe some EU regulations on international co-operation, and these have snuck all the money into their pockets or pockets to foreign investors and import lobbys that they have opted for. Well only in agriculture how many incentives we give never again, and never less production in food, we have production. So what does that tell you, what does that tell you? What an international cooperation. But we don't have the strength and courage because the system is criminal, the system is tied up and all the money, and while, it goes into other people's private pockets and until the law is passed on [[Thank you very much.]] about the origin of the property, until those assets are taken away, we can be here for days, and when we have the will, we'll see. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8983	Thanks, you need those 10 minutes or we can move on right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8984	Sea 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8985	Can we move on? What did you say he could do?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8986	Ten, ten.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8987	We do, we give 10 minutes to 11 and 20 so Mr. Bulj can go... What? Five minutes for Mr. Bull to consult. [[5 minutes, 5 minutes.]] Thank you. It's 11:00. 10 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 11:16 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8989	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will firstly say that the HDZ Club will support the above-mentioned additions to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal cases with EU Member States. This law regulates judicial co-operation in criminal matters with EU Member States, so that certain regulations are implemented or transposed in domestic law which in some ways have significantly greater legal developments than that of the Croatian legal system. Of course, from the discussions of other clubs, the intensity is observed, and in fact the most important change concerning this amendment is to put aside the security of assets and decisions on the confiscation of assets or objects acquired by committing criminal acts in the EU in which Croatia also plays a certain role. They may testify, among other things, that there are many international and inter-state networks and organisations that have been organised and which make a significant contribution to the work and work of such bodies, especially in these associations and networks such as these. BAMIN Croatia participates actively and we can say that in this part it is in some way the leader of certain procedures and gives a certain way a guide to other countries that are not at that stage in that part. It is also mentioned here that it must be complemented that there exists and in some ways it can be said that the legitimate role of the Ministry of State Property is also given, or is now the spatial arrangement that leads to these matters in some way to care, not in some way but in certain law on criminal proceedings, by the authority of the Ministry to lead on movements and other things committed by criminal acts. It is therefore important to stress that these provisions are trying to activate the property that has resulted in a criminal offence which has one very good prejudicing and disciplining attitude towards citizens because in some way the general principle of the right to not be paid or that the damage done and returned to the source to which it was caused is somehow sent. In the end, I would just like to say that this is a certain way of making a big step and proof that the Croatian people's referendum decision to join the EU to a considerable extent was justified because in this way I repeat in my legal system we are carrying out certain materials that are relevant for the step out of the legal system and I would specifically like to point out that here in some way it is excluded which may not be said so far, a double-punishment check that this is dangerous in Article. The 10th law in question is very important. It's important to point out that there is this so-called. Vacatio legis that gives sufficient time to implant certain supplements into the legal programme and thus further strengthens our legal system. Once again, the HDZ Club will support the changes in question and we hope to be able to further apply them to our legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8990	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8991	Thank you very much. Here citizens are probably following us, especially those who are once an older generation, and younger probably not because they are disappointed, but we are the only ones who should send a message because we are chosen to send them what message we do not know, but the fact that these amendments to the Law on International Cooperation in Criminal Procedures absolutely will not change anything, nor will the origin of the property be explored, nor will they block, nor will the institutions in the Republic of Croatia do so. I'll just repeat a few things, here's what I mentioned earlier to key companies, INA. INA starts with the White Nights during Slavko Linic, ended HDZ. Telecommunications started HZD finished SDP, so this but individually this is not a charge of parties, so they don't understand but the management of political processes that... And where were those people who were stakeholders, let's say privatisation I mentioned Telekom, our telecommunications. Telecommunications is also a stage of national importance, they are and for national security we gave them to a private investor, in fact we don't even know today in what way it went and where are these people who carried out these actions? They became the leaders of these foreign sister companies that today have the biggest profits in the Republic of Croatia, the biggest margins. It is the same case for you, we can also start with the factory "Dalmatinka" in Sinj, for example, where there have been a number of women who did not end up getting paid and privatized some Ladini seems to me from Italy who literally mumbled those women that hadn't been paid for years, they haven't had a marenda, they haven't had their children, and they've done the hardest work for machines. I personally participated at that time with them, no matter what I was an active soldier, at the time professional, I stood by them, I went with them. Why? Did I miss it? I didn't realize what was going on with women who were doing their whole work call. It's gone, it's been erased. Who's going to be responsible for that? Someone took the money, but always the eternal question of where the money is? What about the origin of the property? Does the tax administration do these jobs in the Republic of Croatia? Very little, let's be realistic, very little. Is someone who didn't have 5 kunas or 10 dinars in my town, but no matter what, today has millions, owns a number of places in Sinj which are 1/1 and these are attractive locations. So how could that happen? And that's the key question. This is not a question of division of who is the larger Croat, who is the smaller Croat, who is the larger Yugoslav, who is smaller Yugoslavia. This is a question of all the questions of all of us and future generations. This is not a question of dividing Croatian into Ustashas and Partisans. This is the question while someone was bleeding and creating a homeland as my Zagora, my Split, my Dalmatia, my Croatia, was robbed while it died. Today we remember the hero Vukovar, the treasure of Zadar and many other defenders at this time. I was young then, I was a diet, boy, I went to the Homeland War as a number of others, not alone, in rabatins to defend Vrlika, the citizens and the rest. And now we're talking about this through this amendment to the law that we're going to change something to get us to agree, we can vote on it, and we don't have to, nothing's going to change. That's not gonna happen. I'm not gonna let you say it out loud against it. Secondly, I would say that war crimes that are criminals who still have their monuments as their leaders as Shoskocan, and we also have former mayors of Vukovar who pay off as criminals in the Republic of Croatia, and were mayors while the massacre and fire were being slaughtered, are now your coalition partners from HDZ colleagues. What do we do with them? You won't do anything because it's in Croatia It's all selective. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8992	Time, I have, no, stay, stay, you have two, you have two replicas, yes. Mrs. Devereaux. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8993	Here's my colleague Bulj, you've ended up at the Partisans and Ustashas, but let's go back to what you said positively. Do you see in what you said as a problem, so you have someone in Sinj who got a building on one, I don't know, got a chance to buy a factory cheaply, you say tax administration doesn't work. What about the ones who obtained it legally? But again, we know that they have come into that position through influence and respect and through the policy that allowed them to do so, not illegally. So we don't have anything illegal in this situation. But we know very well how they even came into a position to buy that factory, to become owners of some real estate. What about legal corruption?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8994	Thank you very much, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8995	Yeah, whenever it's chaos, and mostly when it's war, then rats come out. Unfortunately in chaos, it's such a war, it's nothing good and it would have been better if it hadn't been for war, but it was just a fair, liberating, home war where we freed our country, and then, an example here, I will now be in court with it, a private lawsuit, Stipe Mesic as a great advocate of the functioning of the institutions, just the one who signed here Stipe Mesic, he just signed the Law on the privatisation of the cementist Najsica and everything else that went for him. So, in Croatia there is no crime of ideology, their ideology is just money, a sacred means, we're all of blood and meat, but they've all told Croatia so much, there's no ideology, there's no living, there's no right, there's no partisan, there's no Ustasha, there's no money, there's just this ideology that's worth it, and it's eternal. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8996	You have another one, Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8997	My colleague Bulj, we do not have a problem with the legal definition of the law in Croatia, we are essentially having the same laws in Croatia. Because you know that we are still the state of Orwell's equality in which some are more equal and in which those who need to enforce the laws actually have their hands tied. I'm afraid with a law like this, it may happen again in the field and in the implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8998	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u8999	The institutional crisis is visible in this case last around the club, around Janafa i.e. Kovacevic's club, also Krš-Padjana, is also a breakthrough of measures, so at this point we have statements by two key, two-state presidents and a prime minister who simply cannot agree, and they are responsible for the relevant, so institutions, a crisis institution, and that is why chaos is happening. That's why no fence can protect us, not the council, not the government, not any of us individuals representing these institutions. Because those who are the leaders of these institutions and who are most responsible, by the prime minister, the president, the assembly, irrelevantly, they have brought people into mistrust of institutions and from these two examples that I have said. Here's the key question where the money is, we don't care about their fights. Then where's that money from Janaf, from INA, from I don't know, the smugglers, Where's the money? [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9000	Thank you very much. We continue with individual debates, Mrs. President. [[/Intruder Bull: A very simple formula, but nobody cares. Thank you very much.]] Katarina Peovic is on her way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9001	Good afternoon, everyone. This proposal for a law supplementing the Law on judicial co-operation in criminal matters with EU Member States falls within that diapazon of laws and adjustments that we so nicely call harmonising with the European acquis. What's crucial here is one thing to say, by the way, the additional extension of the law in accordance with the regulation. So this is also about preventing the gray economy, and this is about freezing and confiscating property illegally acquired, but the key question that has already been asked here in some way and who are we going to take away the property from? So we'll take away property from the Italians, the Germans, or the Italians and the Germans will take away our criminals' assets that can't be proven, whose origins can't be proven. Members of the HDZ, Davor Stier, for example, supported this practice of words before this proposal, so a few years ago because it is the legacy of a legislation, I quote: "It is therefore moving towards the fact that it is not just cases which are in the judicial process, but unless an individual can prove the origin of the property that the entire property could be affected by these measures." So the real question that's being raised here, then why aren't domestic laws encouraging the freezing and confiscation of property? However, the Law on the Study of Origin of Assets and the confiscation of illegally acquired property was abolished in 1990, abolished by the SDP and never returned. Why do we not have a law that regulates with us what we will automatically agree to in the acquis and adapt to the acquis of the EU, why do we not have a law on the origin of the property? So several political options were already for such a return of such a law, what appeared as a paradoxical response, again from the SDP and from some of its members such as Bernardic, so that we would tax the property that was not legally acquired. It is quite like this, the bizarre interpretation of what this law should do, what has been illegally and criminally acquired, must be taken away and therefore we absolutely welcome this law, which is adapted to the European acquis, indeed criminals should be taken away from their illegal acquired property. So while we are under EU scrutiny to carry out the obligations defined by this law, achieving in their favour first and foremost, we do not do so at home. Everything is aimed at raising pompous indictments that end with acquittals, so the extended confiscation of property benefits remains a dead letter on the criminal law paper. All together, it leads to a picture of the crime and that's how it's worth it. And after the 101st affair, the issue should not only of structural corruption but of legal and legalized corruption that has no more roots, so encouraging and maintaining absolute inequality and injustice that lies in allowing elites to earn, that successful entrepreneurs and politicians join together to pass laws in favour of the privileged elite, now everyone is talking about the Janaf affair, but it is one of a series of affairs that reminds everyone of each other. Successful entrepreneurs and politicians have united to make everyone feel better, after they settle down, reportedly we will get better too. It is therefore necessary to ask the question of the model and the comparison of the EU regulatory and domestically shows it nicely. We do not therefore work on what would be the basis and basis of the end of corruption and the prevention of corruption to raise our own economy, to secure new jobs, more wages, more opportunities, and to provide basic needs for all, we are absolutely leaving people in the indifference that is a chance for corruption. Equally, the miserable moralization of some nation-friendly corruption should no longer appear from this House because we are no longer prone to corruption, but we are poorer and poorer than the rest of Europe and we need to change that. These moralizations about our mentality in a country that has limited opportunities and almost a million people live in poverty, in which 10% does not eat meat every other day, should really stop. Isn't corruption a mode of action and survival not a matter of moral corruption and those stories just like who we are? So let's take over this EU regulation but not as a colony, but by abolishing the personal cause of corruption, lack of property.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9002	Thank you, stay because you have a replica of Mr. Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9003	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Peovic, at the beginning of your presentation, you set out that this is a co-ordination with a certain Council and European Parliament directive, somehow as if it were irrelevant to this particular judicial co-operation in criminal matters, okay, the second part of your exposure is based solely on corruption but we cannot ignore the effects that this law has made, okay, these are only changes in part around one institute but only when we look at the institutions of Eurojust and European arrest warrants and the execution and recognition of judgments among the EU countries, when we look only at the quantity and statistics of the number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia not to mention when parents and children of different citizenship are in a particular criminal process, not to mention citizens who have requests for certain citizens of other countries, precisely this judicial co-operation speeds things up and brings blessings to our people, so it is not only temporary and...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9004	I'm sorry, you're a little out of time. Mrs. Peovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9005	Well, yes, I must say and in part agree with you, some things are certainly not bad, but what worries here is that we, in legislation that represents compliance with EU legislation, have one criterion, and in the domestic contexts quite another. We had the same case with the Foreign Law and the Law on Posting Workers, where we have quite different criteria for domestic legislation and legislation that adapts to European legislation. What denies you that things are going better, I always like to listen to HDZ because it really looks like we're going ahead, but what's denying you is really the perception of corruption where we're at the beginning and really people don't trust that legal system, and that should be you as legislators and legislators concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9006	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Ante Bačić's turn, please, also an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9007	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, we have opened our minds on several important topics and topics and institutions that bind themselves to judicial co-operation, but also on general international legal assistance between the states here normally, the Republic of Croatia, specifically here EU member and third countries, which we have a little mix of these institutes through the Law on the Completion of the Law on Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters with EU Member States. These are all in addition to the law, we talked about something in the last term, we opened the topic especially of the European arrest warrant institute, which I think was in the previous additions to the law itself. We normally agree this is also a harmonisation with the 2018 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, and it applies only to the recognition of the confiscation and freezing order applicable to Member States, but it is a grateful topic to open exactly questions and international criminal legal aid, but also to judicial cooperation itself, because I think that the Republic definitely has some open criminal issues, not so much with EU Member States as with some third countries with which we have certain contracts from the justice sphere, which are directly related to international legal assistance, so I have tried to connect these two international legal aid institutes and judicial cooperation to see exactly the difference because, through judicial cooperation, things go to the defacto automation itself and this shows why exactly harmonising with these regulations and EU directives is good for our legislation, while the international legal matter is again the two states and things are dealt with concretely through the request and the order of the country itself to help we know how much of the matter. Today, more and more people know that we are traveling, we have open programmes for our young people and for Erasmus students, a lot of people are connected and a lot of our citizens are traveling abroad and working for work in foreign companies, the objectives of precisely these regulations, the objectives of the laws we make, we implement in our legislative framework is that it is precisely doing these border barriers that we have solved here and tomorrow by solving the whole issue of Schengen itself, it is more normal for all citizens and for the sake of mobility itself, but it is easier for normal and crime to cross easier borders, especially for the EU, but thus creating certain works and criminal objects that are being opened in several countries, so it is very important and meaningful to create a single European criminal legal framework, one unique area where all Member States will align and agree on certain minimums that they meet certain things to speed up certain criminal cases between Member States. Important institutes currently mentioned through this law and through the regulation itself, these are strategic guidelines in the area of freedom, security and justice, mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters, which I think is the basis of the drafting of this regulation at EU level since the Lisbon Treaty, since 2000 and the beginning of this Regulation itself. Not to mention the European arrest warrant which regulates.../incomprehensible/... only the enforcement and transposition of the decision-making procedure relating to judicial authorities and the possibility of extradition of citizens of the state of extradition, but also clear deadlines when this will be met, the harmonisation of legislation and the establishment of those minimum rules on which all Member States will normally comply and agree without only mentioning the Eurojust Institute, the European judicial networks, joint investigative teams and the European Public Prosecutor's Office where the Republic of Croatia is taking part, I repeat everything in order to protect the security of the rights of our citizens, but also all in order to address certain criminal cases that take place in the area of several countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9008	The replica has a Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, this Law on judicial co-operation in criminal matters, counterpart Bačić, is sometimes called the right European law, and there are often legal changes that may be conditional on some EU court decisions. I would like to know how you as a lawyer see whether these frequent legislative changes to this law can also create certain complications precisely in the correlation with other EU Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9010	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9011	Thank you. My colleague, I think these seventh additions are now not a matter of some urgency or the whim of the European Council and of the European Parliament. Just what you mentioned is about legal certainty. the legal uncertainty that occurs in citizens and in a particular judicial system, and this is precisely the solution to remove that legal uncertainty. What you have mentioned about courts and certain judgments that become practice after which laws are changed and sent to the Member States to implement them, I think they are a good thing because simple case-law must show, the practice of life must show what is happening, what we say, on the ground and must be what is life-threatening, what makes our citizens sad and how after that practice will simply be pro-longed to coordinate the resolution of other cases, and that is the basis of just legal cooperation between Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9012	Thank you very much. You have no more replicas, thus we are finished with individual debates and now in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will speak finally Mr Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9013	Thank you, Madam Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. MOST of Independent Lists will support the proposal of these amendments, not because we believe that this change is the one that goes, but we are aware that it is, as I said earlier, the fat hevu that we need to implement in our legislative framework. What we want is a lot of happiness in the implementation, of course of this law, and of all those who are directly connected to this. We believe, in fact, that the implementation of this law will actually be the beginning of the end of Orwell's equality within the Republic of Croatia, and that those brave people who are going to implement, both this and the other laws, will untie their hands on the ground in order to actually be equal to everyone. Finally, the Most Independent Lists supports the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9014	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. As we decided this morning we will now conduct a united debate on the following points: - Report on the work of the probation service for 2019. and - Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2019. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4. The law on probation and art. Six. The law on the execution of a prison sentence. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. Does Mr. Secretary of State want Mr. Salapic's word taken from the Ministry of Justice and Administration? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9017	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable MPs and MPs. We have two annual reports for 2019, a report on the state of the penitentiary and prison in the Republic of Croatia, and a report on the work of the probation service for 2019. As regards the prison system of the Republic of Croatia, total legal capacity in 2019. in penitentiary and prisons it is in closed conditions 2909 places, in semi-open conditions 725 places, and in open conditions 285 places, a total of 3919 places. During 2019. The prison system of the Republic of Croatia has undergone 12603 prisoners of various formal legal status. Penalties held by minors who have been sentenced to prison in criminal proceedings 4199, the sentence of prisons carried out by minors who have been sentenced to prison in criminal proceedings 639 or other court proceedings and the sentence of prison that has been replaced and fined 259, and the violation of 1986 cases. The sentence of juvenile prison 18, and the educational measure of reference to the educational institution, was given to juvenile perpetrators of criminal acts 88. As far as prison measures are concerned, there were 5414 cases. As regards 2018, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, It is an increase of about 950 detainees, primarily caused by different actions at the borders of the Republic of Croatia, so the migrant crisis where the prisons were investigated, so they filled with these prisoners. As for prisoners who maintain prison sentences compared to 2018. We have an increase of 33.36% of the total number of prison populations in 2019. was placed in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia. As for the length of the sentence, it is mostly prisoners who have a prison sentence between 1 and 3 years, and at least those who have long-term prison sentences, which are 30 to 40 years. Prison. I told you about the prisoners who were given a measure of prison investigation, that's an increase compared to 2018. As regards the health care of prisoners and minors, in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia in 2019. We had a little more than 50617 general medical examinations, 2726 dental examinations, 6374 psychiatric examinations, 1507 laboratory tests, and 53 other different tests at the Prison Hospital in Zagreb only for prisoners from other criminal cases. As far as the papers are concerned, we discussed this during 2020. The prison system of the Republic of Croatia connects with the health system of the Ministry of Health so that doctors at the prison hospital will be associated with the so-called information system. The prisoner's medical records to see the elements and history of the prisoner's disease. We are also currently talking about a new newspaper, which is a virtual infirmary where in the prison system, we would allow virtual information clinics to be examined by prisoners before they are sent to hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, which would speed up the time of observation of prisoners, and we would also have certain savings concerning the transport of vehicles and the need for insurance by the judicial police. As for the use of funds of coercion in the prison system compared to the total number of prisoners, we recorded a slight increase of 0.2%, so we had slightly more than 19 such actions, so a slight increase compared to 2018. As far as trying to escape from the prison system, we have recorded 30 fugitives, the number of registered fugitives compared to the previous prison system report is higher by three escape attempts. As regards the basic financial report, the prison system of the Republic of Croatia revenue from the budget responsible for financing regular activities is 485 million 546 000 405 kuna, as regards revenue from the sale of products and services and horns and provided services, these are products and goods produced within the prison system, i.e. 33 million 854 thousand kuna, as regards other revenues and receipts of 11 million 851 thousand kuna, this is a total of 531 million 252 thousand. Total expenditures and expenditures are 535 million 812 thousand 167 kuna. As regards the report on the work of Probation, which is also related to the prison system of the Republic of Croatia, it is for the Ministry of Justice to deal with matters of particular interest because it is a sort of rehabilitation of the perpetrators of criminal offences. In the last year, the probation service received a total of 3,825 items and completed 3,873 items. When we turn that into a trial service hours it's more than 600,000 hours of work. During 2019, the trial offices established cooperation for the execution of work for the general good with 119 new legal entities, we made sure that these legal entities were spread in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, now new according to the county structure and in the City of Zagreb. The total number of legal persons where the Probation Service or General Works can be executed is 1364 legal persons who are allowed to provide these working conditions for the common good. As regards some newspapers in July 2019, a new Regulation on the method of performing probational tasks aimed at raising the quality of performing probation work towards persons involved in the trial was adopted. We have also been able to support the work of the Probation Service and the prison system of implementation of the new information system of the prison-testing and information system designed as part of the project "Development of a single IT system for prison administration in the Republic of Croatia". It is also important to mention the funding from the Norwegian financial mechanism that we started using in 2014, which will last until 2021, which is one of the most important main activities in this mechanism is the implementation of permanent electronic surveillance in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia and other activities from this project. So, somewhere in about a year, we expect full implementation of the ability of electronic surveillance in the prison system and the testing system of the Republic of Croatia. As regards improving the quality of the judiciary through strengthening the capacity of the prison and probation system, it is important and valuable to mention the funds from which they are financed from the European Social Fund, it is an operational programme which also started in 2014, which will last until the end of this year, and the objective of this operational project is to support the prison system and probation and the Support Office for Victims and Witnesses through systematic continuous supervisory, strengthening professional capacities, competence and continuous training of officials and increasing the security of employees through their training to use self-defense techniques and ensuring the lack of information equipment for work both in the prison system and probation services. These are two reports for 2019 and we suggest that HS accept these reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9018	Thank you, too. The first line has Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9019	Thank you, Vice President HS. Secretary of State. We see in the report on the work of Probation Service for 2019 we started this project i.e. have been involved in this project related to the Norwegian financial mechanism where the main activity is the permanent implementation of electronic surveillance in the Republic of Croatia. When we look at the statistics in this report, the courts have little use of precisely the measure related to electronic surveillance, it is simpler to say the measure of the prison investigation, to extend it than to use this. Now my question about you and the ministry itself is, aren't we technically qualified to carry out such a measure or is it just a matter of courts and their assessment that's easier to say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9020	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9021	Thank you very much. It's not a matter of courts, but it's a thing that this mechanism covers pilot projects that were in the Republic of Croatia in 2014, and there are certain advantages and shortcomings in electronic surveillance. In addition to the financial resources in the law, the law will first and foremost have to make it possible, for example by means of measures to express an investigative prison, an investigative prison may be an electronic surveillance person in the regime and at home. It also relieves convicts of the ability to maintain a prison sentence through electronic surveillance in their homes to unload the prison system in the Republic of Croatia. And we also take care of who these convicts are, which are criminal acts that will fall under the possibility of electronic surveillance. So these pilot projects were more of them showed some benefits of it, but also certain shortcomings that we are now repairing and I say in a year we will complete the implementation system completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9022	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9023	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, this report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, has a financial report unlike any of the others we've seen here, and I don't appreciate it, and I'd like to give you three questions, firstly, how many, are you following, how many retrievals among the prisoners in the prison system? Number two, when it starts to expand capacity, would it improve the living and working conditions of the prisoners? And most importantly, why is only 70% of the workers in the systematization of jobs because we know how hard and responsible it is to work in prisons and I've read somewhere that there's only 70% of them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9024	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9025	Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor. We are making continuous efforts to enable the prison system of the Republic of Croatia at all levels to have effective and proper working conditions. You know how difficult this is given the capacity, given the increase in the number of prisoners, I said in the report, especially in these crises such as the migrant crisis at the borders of the Republic of Croatia where many people end up in investigative prisons. As for the investment of capacity, we've also done a lot, the prison system has its own incomes, we're trying to make these revenues end up in the prison system. As for increasing the adequateness, therefore the conditions for prisoners, it is the same continuous process, so there are certain prison regimes that are lighter, which are semi-open type, lighter prison conditions and we are trying therefore after the mandatory detention work in Remitinc, to end these prisoners in such conditions. So it's a continuous process and we can't do it from today until tomorrow, but here's the big effort of both the government and the Ministry of Justice to provide maximum conditions on both sides, both these and those.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9026	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, if we look from the adoption of the Prosecution Act, so from legal solution to structure, we can say that the probation service has done very much in a relatively short period of time. According to the Council of Europe's recommendations, probation officials are equating themselves with prison officials, we currently have 14 probationary offices in the Republic of Croatia, and I'm interested in this security aspect, so since it's high-risk jobs, the perpetrators of criminal acts, as much as they invest in this security aspect, because rarely probation officials have to go to the field, sometimes we seem to be putting out fire in the Republic when something happens, we've had an unkind event in the CZSS, so here, I'm interested in that part of the security aspect, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9028	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9029	Thank you very much for asking. As well as the entire prison system itself, so is the probation service, the Ministry of Justice and Administration, continuously with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, makes all efforts and financial efforts to secure the funds. I mentioned the European Social Fund, and that is exactly what the European sources that we started in 2014 and which last until 2020, where we are working through additional education in terms of security, as well as ensuring the information but also this defence and security aspect, so that the probation service and the judicial police both in providing judicial bodies and within the prison system are raised to a higher level. It is also a continuous process that requires certain financial resources as well as certain equipment, as well as hiring new personnel because as capacity increases inside, so we also need to increase the level of security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9030	- Mrs. Crescent. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9031	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here, I have been following these reports for some time, so it seems to me that the problem of space in prisons or lack of space is repeated, and I am interested in, regardless of this electronic surveillance that will certainly help in one piece and facilitate this problem, but also how did you state it yourself, we cannot expect all crimes to be used and that form, I wonder how in the future we are really going to solve this problem, whether or not we are considering it in any way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9032	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9033	Thank you very much. There are many thoughts, and these are certain additional locations, additional capacities, we are now trying to take into account various threats, I mentioned this migrant crisis and unfortunately more people in investigative prisons, especially there at the borders, there would be an investigative prison in Osijek that I know a lot about, so the capacities have been over-charged, but we are trying very hard to solve such cases faster and mentioning the electronic surveillance of prisoners and convicts is not by themselves some newspaper, these are also the Republic of Serbia, BiH and our neighbours and some European countries, largely in this measure of saying the prison prison will help to help when this is not a special need, these are the three periods that are most often expressed and this is the danger of escaping, the danger of repeating a criminal offence, that this number of prisons is being distributed, you have seen in the report that it is 5414 people in the investigation and the large number of prisons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9034	- Mrs. Crescent. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9035	... Vice President. [[Specially enabled.]] Mr. Secretary of State, we have heard from you about the health care of a large number of certainly general medical examinations, what is not evident is the question of how many doctors we have constantly employed in the system, so on full-time and how much of the basis of the contract on work, of course we know that the problem of the lack of doctors is usually in our community, but we are now incarcerated and closed places where health and additionally disrupts and worsens, and we are interested because it is not the same and we know that some of the penitentiary facilities have only two times a week in a few hours, so we are interested that in the next report you may indicate how many working doctors spend in the criminal body and others also in the work of the prisoners and their incomes, we are interested in what way that they can certainly work and that they contribute, especially in the penitentiaries, In what way do they possess these things? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] and can we see in the system an improvement in the system from these funds? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9036	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. Salapic, I didn't realize you were up before the bat, or now? [[Salapić: Thank you very much...]] We didn't see that, okay, then write it down, okay. Thank you. We didn't see it simply. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9037	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Boric, I spoke about how many general medical examinations were carried out in this regard, and now that statistics are further, dental and others. As far as prison hospitals themselves are concerned, the facilities of Svetosimunska Prison Hospital are quite limited, and when it comes to a specific examination of prisoners who have to be carried out, which cannot be carried out in most cases at Svetosimunska Prison Hospital, such a prisoner will immediately be sent to one of the nearest hospitals in the City of Zagreb. Let's say, some specialist search and certain, certain things that a prison hospital couldn't do, did KBC Rebro in certain cases. And as for the issues of work and inmates in legal persons, part of the funds only goes to a prisoner who meets the requirements of working outside, not all of them, and he can spend those funds in accordance with the rules on how it allows within the prison system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9038	Mrs. Devereaux. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9039	So here I don't know if the report involved, I didn't find it, the European Court of Human Rights verdict, in one case where the court found that they were absolutely inappropriate conditions for the accommodation of prisoners and that they even reached the level of humiliating treatment in the case where the prisoner was found to have been available at a certain time even less than 3m2 of personal space, and his lawyer says there are another 200 cases. So, is there something going on that, meaning the space of life extends to prisoners, for some we know that they have the same room for eating and making an emergency as the media did, and did this report include that European Court of Human Rights verdict?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9040	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9041	Why, yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9042	Thank you very much for asking. As regards commenting on this judgment, it would now enter a particular court shop in a specific case, it is not in this report for 2019. As far as these problems are concerned, we're aware of that, I said, we've been tracking this prison system for years. Constant and constant improvements are evident, but also some of the extraordinary crisis situations that occur are also heavily burdened by the prison system. We are to the extent that we are prepared to protect fundamental human rights and allow everyone to have decent access and conditions when it comes to a particular category of prison, whether it is an investigative prison, whether it is to support the prison sentence. That's why there are different categories of prisons in the Republic of Croatia. We are aware that there are problems in certain prisons and the Ministry is constantly working to remove them through new prison facilities, but this is a comprehensive financial project and expenditure that will last a certain number of years. Unfortunately, we're aware and we're trying solve these problems. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9043	Mrs. Devereaux. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9044	Well, Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Both reports we are now discussing can be taken as examples of carelessness and irresponsibility of the authorities. This is the system's debauchery gene. Why am I saying that? Therefore, since the report should not only contain factographic and statistical data, it should, for example, include a report on the work of the probation service and an analysis of the measures implemented and their effects. Also analyse and detect weaknesses and suggestions for improvement. That's missing. For example, in this second report in the section on the supervision of the Central Office of the Administration of the Prison System and Testing, you indicate that a whole series of inspection controls have been carried out, not what is found in them. Also considered were the recommendations of the attorney general, but not what. In other words, such a report should not only not be accepted, on the basis of such a weak report cannot even be discussed in quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9045	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9046	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Oreskovic, I do not agree with you in the scope and extent to which you have critically stated these two reports. As far as the attorney general is concerned, I think that report was last week in HS and the prison system is one of those reports, and we as the Ministry of Justice and Administration have responded very extensively and thoroughly to the narrator for the problem of the prison system, the penitentiary and educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia, so it's not all so black and white. You are aware as a lawyer and as a lawyer, you also had the opportunity to access the prison system of the Republic of Croatia that certain problems cannot be solved in one day. Also, the protection of the rule of law of the Republic of Croatia's interest, as well as the requirement to expect the public to punish the perpetrators of criminal acts, gives us an obligation to put them in a system where they need to begin their crime, and you are also aware of that, except that you do not want to say that certain shifts have been made in that system that we have seen. And through the reports, not only ours, but also the attorney general's. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9047	And at the end of the day, Mr. Kolarek. The microphone's not on. The microphone's on. Excuse me. Is it on? Is it on? Yeah, I don't see him. There he is, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9048	I'd like to commend the report on the work of the probation service for 2019, but I have two or two questions. So work for the general good in 2019. 1113 subjects received for general benefit, 29.1% of all subjects. And it is good that 119 new legal entities are involved in this work for the general good. Two questions. Can this percentage, the work or the realization of the penalty for general good, be increased? And secondly, I noticed from the data that the realisation of these penalties or the replacement of penalties for work for the general good is the most going on in 3 probation offices, Zagreb 1, Zagreb 2 and in Varazdin [[I'm sorry, time.]] Is that what he likes, a result of his work? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Courts or something? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9049	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9050	Thank you very much. I said in the 2019 report that we expanded 119 new legal entities the possibility of probation service or work for the common good. The very logic of the territorial City of Zagreb and the proximity of these cities around Zagreb, given that we have the most cases here, is logical that the most legal person comes from this particular Zagreb area and the ring in Zagreb, but what is in the report is also our continuing intention to continuously increase the number of these legal persons. We also carry out special controls is not all that can be like a legal person to perform work for the common good, there are special rules. We try to ensure that such convicts who have had prison sentences for up to a year in an adequate legal person working for the general good were in concrete work humanitarian, ecological, etc., that they make a certain contribution to the system and a certain way of doing the purpose of this punishment for the common good, and that the purpose is also the punishment but also the kind of rehabilitation and return of such a person to a normal legal life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9051	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, we move to debate, first by clubs, the first club of Croatian sovereigns, Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, has no right to lose. Mrs. Vesna Nadj, in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about the report on the work of the probationary service for 2019 and the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2019, we should mention that the conditions of enforcement of institutional measures and sanctions in the Republic of Croatia characterise a number of negative features such as the excessive duration of the criminal proceedings, the large proportion of prisoners in the prison population, the over-complication of existing prison facilities, the high cost of the penitentiary institutions, the under-treatment of gradual penal treatment and support in the community and the high rates of relapses. Therefore, in the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the Law on Prosecution, Probation Jobs are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, and they are being carried out to protect the social community from the perpetrators of the criminal offence, its resociation and reintegration in the community, having an impact on the risk factors associated with the fact of criminal offences. The persons involved in the trial have completed a total of 609,898 hours of work for the common good. During 2019, probation offices have established cooperation with the general service of 119 new right persons, so that at present 1,369 legal persons can be employed for general good. It is good to get as many legal persons involved in performing the work for the general good as possible in the context of the trial. Legal persons and public authorities in which convicts work for the general benefit of their activities shall include matters of humanitarian, environmental and municipal importance as well as other matters of general national interest and interest for the local community. It is commendable that in 2019, in several offices, the probation service started with individual implementation of special treatments designed for the perpetrators of violent crimes and acts of sexual nature called Step into Change, You can also begin with the mirror that the probation service has developed in recent years within the EU projects. These programmes have successfully completed 22 convicts. It is certainly necessary to include more convicts in such EU projects, in particular if the evaluation has been identified as successful in relation to the lack of relapse. It is also necessary to develop activities started in 2019 on the implementation of permanent electronic surveillance in the Republic of Croatia financed by the Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014. - 2020. Electronic surveillance in Europe is used as an alternative to detention, as an obligation attached to sanctions and measures in the community, a form of parole, a post-release obligation, sanctions for violation of probation, an obligation with temporary dismissal or an obligation in the event of domestic violence. Electronic surveillance does not have a rehabilitation effect for itself but serves only for control and therefore the best results are achieved with the work of the probation service. Therefore, electronic surveillance should also be carried out in the trial procedures of the Republic of Croatia. We also support the strengthening of professional competencies through continued education of probationary officials. It is an opportunity to remind ourselves that the 13th annual Assembly of the European Association for Testing in Dublin on 23 October 2003 has been awarded a prize for the development of a national probation service which deserves every commendation. It is good that the Croatian Prosecution Service places a similar emphasis on the social integration of the perpetrators of the crime and on the protection of the community. The largest number of cases is in the general good work, according to the decision of the Court of Justice 1.146, completed cases, or 29.5% of all cases. The work for the general good is pronounced by the court as a substitute for a one-year sentence or a replacement for fines. We all remember former Agriculture Minister Petar Cobankovic, who boasted that he had peeled 4.5 tonnes of potatoes in the Caritas kitchen of the Djakovci-Sjest diocese in Osijek, at 730 hours. Osijek-Baranja County has the largest number of real persons with which work can be done for the general good, 120 of them, and the City of Zagreb is only 115 which, given the size and number of legal persons based in the City of Zagreb, is far too small. We will support this report as the SDP Representatives' Club. When it comes to the State and Labour Report of Penalties, Prisons and Educational Institutions in 2019, it is necessary to highlight the significant increase in the number of prisoners continued in 2019 due to the increase in the number of investigating prisoners most due to the determination of the investigative prison in the procedures of illegal border crossing. In particular, it is necessary to highlight the rights of the prisoners, their protection regarding accommodation facilities in the penitentiary, which are obviously insufficient to what the Constitutional Court has warned and, in fact, in its judgment of 4 February 2020 and which states the indication of the penitentiary. I quote, given the continuing, continuing problem of excessiveness, the transfer of the penitentiary, that the applicant of the constitutional suit when the penitentiary will have the appropriate space it will be immediately laid down in the law on accommodation spatial conditions, which is 4 square meters, i.e. 10 cubic metres of space. Of course, in any case, and what was also stated was that the capacity of judicial officers should also be strengthened, their continued education, because it is said that the capacity-fulfilment, i.e. systematicised jobs, is only 73.21%. So you need to work to fill your capacity, expand the spatial conditions in the penitentiary and prisons themselves, but in any case, the SDP Representatives Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9053	Thank you, ma'am. Nadj. And now the Green-Left Blocks' Club will first introduce Mr. Matul, and then, after that, Mrs. Matul will speak. Boric. Don't forget to give your word to Mrs. Devereaux. Boric, many times they've forgotten.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9054	Yes, yes, thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. First I'd like to say Mr. Secretary of State, of course. After the debate we had on the law, this law on the prison system, I got one letter from a prisoner and he asked me among other things, if I got that letter and I now want to say that I am and in that sense, and it's probably a sign that some things are right and that respects the dignity and some human rights of prisoners. But now I don't know how much time I can spend on the fact that it's been so short, and I don't even see it stopping me, but I have to imagine how much time, uh, five minutes.../incomprehensible/... five minutes at me, yes. Yeah. Um, I expected it to be five minutes so.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9055	We'll stop. Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9056	I'm sorry, I don't have that experience... And on the other hand, also because of my inexperience, I am truly shocked by the fact that two important things that have been known to come to order for so long and then suddenly make such a decision to make it together, the question of testing as a very important part of the system, where really people don't go and end up necessarily in prison, where society is really through probationary officials asking about it and wants to know which of these people is dangerous, and in what sense it is, that goes out, and also wants to help all people who are getting different unfortunate circumstances, and here it's interesting that most of the women are doing it, that my colleague is definitely going to say something, and I have a need to point out that I've been really, already, and I've heard about it, and I've always heard about the number of people sitting in prisons, and I've always read about it, and I've never been able to say that I've been able to talk about it, and I'd like, and I'd like, and I'd like, like, like, I'd like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I guess that's because you're second-guessed. Of course, this is just irony. Now, right now, I'm going to move on to the report on the state of work in the penitentiary, but in this case, I'm going to refer to the police attorney's report, the Human Rights Attorney's report, among other things, but very quickly, to, to, as soon as she starts talking about the prison system, mentions the case that we were all shocked last year at 8:00. Uh, and that's when the young man of 18, who had obviously mental problems and who, and that's to say, is, yes, he was burning something there, however, that he was saved and that a psychiatrist said that very rarely happens to someone die of fear, and that young man was put in jail with a team who had afforded him horror and that young man was.../incomprehensible/... I was really reviewing this report and I didn't find that case. I don't understand why he's irrelevant in this report, although here, the human rights houses will say that in the last few years the situation in the prison system has improved, so it's not that we don't see some things, but yet we still don't know how it's possible that everything is going to get this fast and I'm going to end up with this here, because I don't want Rada to have a chance. I just want to say, how is it possible for me and the friendly neighbouring sovereign state of R. Bosnia and Herzegovina, how is it that Croatia allows itself to turn the area of the neighbouring country into an open-ended prison? Inadmissible. That's offensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9057	Thank you, too, Mr. Matula. Here you go, ma'am. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9058	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm going to be a little shorter, I'm going to talk only about the State and Labour Report of Penalty, Prison and Educational Institutions for 2019, and I'm going to ask you something that was asked in January of this year when the report was being discussed for '18. A year. Namely, why the shortness taught us the truth, we had complaints as to why we had large reports of the Ombudsman, the lawyer, but it's a little amazing that in 2017 we had 130 pages, '18. 90, and now 60 pages of the report, does that mean that we've solved 60% of the content or that it doesn't matter to us? The objection that has always been made to this report, and the objection that we have at the club is the objection that we have statistics, but we do not have what we would know by interpreting the content i.e. the states of what stands in the title of state and work. We don't know about the state and the work, we only know the numbers. Statistics. And what is particularly worrying, and it is visible from the entire content of who reads it carefully according to statistics, and that is especially the inequality of the conditions in the penitentiary and in prisons that is unacceptable to have an inequality of standards. When I asked you about the doctor I didn't ask you in prison hospitals, I asked in prison facilities where some doctors come twice a week, other contracts are concluded. I'm not going to say there are any gaps about it. But when we talk about standards, we can't happen to have inequalities in the benefits of prisoners, I'm going to talk about what the conveniences of prisoners and prisoners look like, what the rooms look like, the number of prisoners, the furniture, the personality that I can tell you about not visiting children, so we can't have inequalities about visits, I've already said this, different standards, for example. In a prison of investigation that we know how long they last, how foreigners are treated in investigative prisons. So what should really be standardised is that there are no such differences between different bodies. Also what concerns this report, I would like to have answers as to how it is possible for prison education to decline? It cannot happen to include the reasons for enrolment, if 74 students are enrolled in primary school, and only 35 are completed from that process, which is a failure, what happens? For example. how it is possible that, in the free space organization, we are still traditionally thinking about the sport that is most represented, and yet we are traditionally thinking about what women, for example. They learn in penitentiary against men. On the other hand, what is to be commended, which is as we have learned as women that in services I do what a regulated state should do, so associations deal with the protection of women from violence, and here we see that associations have taken over a large part of what is past the treatment. When you look at traditional treatments are in prisons, treatments related to the fight against alcoholism, drugs, since last year I don't even know the dice, which is okay or treatment psychiatricly, which is fine, there are percentages. However, what is very good and to praise is and to praise that programs are not only on competitions and that they are not like what we have about the program related to violence against women for a year but also on three, that really some new programs like the prisoner as a parent are being done or that training for social skills are being done. If we're talking about rehearsals, i.e. You didn't catch us because you blinded us together two topics, it's also important that there is, of course, when it comes out of the penitentiary. The prison system that these people are otherwise socialized means that we've trained them to live in ways that they've been educated, and we can see that they're counting. We see and as far as I don't know, I've got a statistic of what it's like. has completed requalification, and on the other hand it is very important to have these other social skills. What we really need is how in a system that has such different standards we can talk about the equal rights of all prisoners. I hope to have a chance to say something about women as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9059	Thank you very much. Since Mr. Matula used to talk about something, and I care to underline it and advise you, it means two important points connected. When two points are combined then when you connect a point then someone from any club can read the Rules of Procedure and ask for a 15-minute debate, not 10 minutes. No one answered, and now we can't make any more discrimination. Thank you, too. Mr. Drazen Bošnjakovic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9060	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In the meantime, I'm going to say that I think these two points are well connected because it's all about the same system because probation is only one sector within the prison system administration in the ministry. And those two probational activities and the whole prison system are being swept away, and they're very complementary, so I think it makes sense that those two points are connected. As we can see, the prison system within it and the sampling system are extremely complex and organisational and humane and professional and in every sense and see how they are organized. We in the prison system, so we have 14 prisons, we have 7 penitentiary, we have a prison hospital, we have an education center, we have a diagnostic center, we have 14 districts, so we have a probation office all over Croatia. There's a little less than 3,000 people working in that system. He is a prisoner, so in the last 2019. You've been through that system more than 12,000. This means on the last day of 31.12. in that system there were 3500 and some prisoners, it makes some kind of, some sort of average how many people are present within the system itself, and really these are huge figures. The capacity of the prison system is therefore slightly less than 4,000 places and what I think is actually everyone who has discussed is absolutely right to work and to strive for these conditions to be as good as possible because it doesn't need to be hidden, so it's not equal to that within 21 units, which the penitentiary, which prisons, are not equal everywhere and these conditions are not equal. We have, say, a penitentiary in Clay that has a new part that was built 7-8 years ago, something like that, which really has great conditions, and we have again on the other side of a penitentiary or a prison where there's a lot more to be done. But as the Secretary of State said, conditions are improving and everyone who knows what was in the system 7-8 or 10 years ago. And when they see it today, it's no longer the same. There are also various programs being implemented within the system that are really very in the interest and are in the interest of the prisoners themselves because the ultimate goal of the entire prison system is that whoever endures the prison sentence and who goes through it goes out to be actually integrated into society tomorrow and that tomorrow he can be reunited into the community, that means he's passed certain and programs and that he can actually continue with some normal life, which is actually hard to say, it's hard to fast, but what we see is a whole series of programs that are just adapted to it. And that's why what seems to me in the future should somehow be more monitored and analyzed what happens to these people after they finish the punishment process is there's a segment here that prepares them and then this one becomes members of society again, that it prepares them to be in some way one transition that is painless and should be seen somehow this one I have the impression that these are people who, if they're not relapsers, we have the data here and how repetitive, that these people stay somewhere on the edges of society or that they're not working or that they're dealing with things like this. In any case, we should do a good analysis to see what is happening to these people and where is necessary, where certain things need to be strengthened. I'd say, and I'd concentrate, and here the same question was about the health condition and the health care of the prisoners and the different sizes and our penitentiary and prisons. I don't know, we have the biggest, Leprechaun, Remetinec, it's over 500-600 people of accommodation capacity, we have the smaller ones, I don't know in Sisak it's 30 people, in Karlovac it's 50 people and so, no, they're not even the spatial conditions everywhere. In these larger centers, it's absolutely certain that there are infirmarys, but what's really important is the new law, and here we talked and we looked at it in our first reading and commented and made suggestions. I think it's very good that the prison hospital will become part of the entire health system, so power will use resources and others. What is extremely important, the prison hospital, it has certain capacities, but everything that cannot be provided in terms of health care within the prison hospital, it is actually provided in these other hospitals and then actually these prisoners who have health problems go to other hospitals and other centres. What is visible every year has a certain number of people who die, 2019. It was 26, a year before that it was a little less people, one committed suicide last year, as reported in the report. And there's a problem actually that some people who go into the system themselves are actually really seriously sick and already have serious health problems and then there's inside the prison system there's a hard thing to provide than it's actually going all into these other external centers, but very often it knows the essence of this cancer disease in some very high stage and it's hard to make. There are also these unexpected cases that occurred last year at the Split Penalty, two years before that in Zadar, a Slovenian citizen was also, it was a heart attack and so on. All of this is taken into account, but what I think is crucial is to insist on what the secretary of state said, every day improving these conditions that we have so many conditions for staying in, in, in these institutions to meet European standards. So we used to have huge problems, we had about 3,500 seats capacitated, and there 10 years ago. There were 5-5500 people in the system, but today it's something small, it's actually better because we have capacity for 3900 places, and some average as many people as it is, it's about 3500-3600 because on a daily level some come in, some come out, and these are some kind of averages. What I'm saying is, in any case, it's affirmative that all the institutions within the prison system have made certain efforts to especially improve when prisoners come to visit children, there are generally arranged rooms everywhere that are slightly different from those prison standards. And there's a program with UNICEF that works very well, it's the possibility of actually video conferences or video meetings of children and their parents that are used a lot and that it saves a lot of those costs and travel-related costs and actually they exist more and more often. This videoconferencing institute is also extremely important for prisoners' obligations in criminal proceedings because one of the more complex operations within the system is when someone needs to be carried out from one place to another. That's why this videoconferencing institute is very important and it saves time and it's actually safe and it's quite significant. What's also important to say is that about these training programmes through education, there really needs to be provided as much as possible for these people to get out of the prison system tomorrow, that they are really active members of society and that they should be given all the support we see from these numbers, that's what they do. But what is extremely important, I think, is that this law that is now going to be in the second reading, the Law on the execution of a prison sentence, it introduces certain news related to digitisation, electronic surveillance, it will be, quite certainly, a great help, especially with this segment of an investigative prisoner, and it could quite lenient the system itself and free some new capacities. So, these reports, the HDZ Club supports, they are professionally made, they offer a whole series of data statistics and each other, graphics, from them we see the exact structure of what we have in the system, the systems are organisationally set up, but what needs to be done in the future to make the conditions, as possible, more quality, to be an individual prisoner and to enable him to be a member of society again tomorrow, that what happened, that actually does not affect his future. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9061	Thank you, too. Now it'll be Mrs. Gossip. Ruzica Vukovac speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9062	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, the Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The annual report on the state and work of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2019 contains basic indicators of the numerous states and structure of the prisoners, the type and description of the dealings with prisoners, the number and structure of prison system officials, as well as the financial operations of the Administration of the Prison System and Prosecution. Last week, we had the opportunity to listen to a report on the work of the attorney general, which was quite abundant in data on persons deprived of liberty and the prison system itself. In that report, the Advocate General addressed but also a large number of recommendations, stating among other things that during 2019 the Office of the Advocate General acted overall in 203 cases in which they gave 35 warnings, recommendations and proposals. In 25 cases where the assessment of the basis of the complaint was necessary to identify facts and circumstances directly, the examinations were carried out on the ground. As in recent years, they state the most common cause of the complaint is health care, then conditions of accommodation, the conduct of officials, and the use of convenience. Inmates often addressed the occupier as a result of the ineffectiveness of the legal means and of requests for assistance in relation to the transfer, and numerous complaints related to several other areas were also made. In 2019, the same reasons for the complaint of health care continue, the number of complaints for not referring to specialist reviews or non-compliance with the recommendations of specialists. The same reasons are the complaints about the conditions of accommodation in certain criminal bodies, for example, because of non-compliance with the legal standard of 4 square metres, e.g. in a penitentiary in Leprechaun, a prison in Sisak, as well as an inappropriate transport of prisoners in old special vehicles. The lack of communication of competent authorities that makes it difficult to plan the handling of investigators is still present, as has been observed by the Ombudsman's Office in the case of an 18-year-old investigating prisoner who died in KBC Split in August 2019 where he is in very difficult condition... from Prison in Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Acting in a specific case, among other things, the Office asked the Ministry of Health to carry out health-inspective supervision of his medical care at the Prison Hospital in Zagreb and in the Department of Health Protection of the Prison in Split, which they did, but the investigation is still ongoing. The D.A.'s office claimed that they received information from prison officials that they did not know it was a person who was diagnosed with mental and physical damage that caused his disability to be identified. How are such failures even possible? The report also lacks a focus on co-operation with trade unions. We're all familiar with the fact that, in the system, there's a serious lack of judicial officers. Is there co-operation between the administration and the union, or is it just as formal as in many of our institutions? As for many years in the Ombudsman's Office, the need for the adoption of a new Penal Code, the drafting of a draft proposal, as well as the Advocate's Office itself, has been welcomed with great interest, however, they say, by the implementation of public consultation, but also by the text of the draft, do not give them too much reason to be optimistic. In late November, an e-Consultation on the draft 15-day proposal was opened, which is certainly too short, given that it is a completely new law. 2 weeks after the closing of the consultation, it is open again without any clarifications, again for 15 days. It is therefore difficult not to imagine that the purpose of the consultation is not to collect relevant data, ideas and opinions, or to promote, ensuring and strengthening transparency and involvement of all stakeholders, but to fill out a mere form. Therefore, the Ombudsman’s report contains a number of recommendations that we strongly recommend to the applicant to read, and, if possible, some of them may be appreciated. Furthermore, the Prosecution Act prescribes probational transactions carried out in the decision on criminal prosecution and the selection of types of criminal sanctions and the enforcement of criminal sanctions imposed on the perpetrator of a criminal offence, probational transactions are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and are carried out with the aim of protecting the social community against the perpetrators of criminal offences, its resociation and reintegration into the community by affecting risk factors associated with the conduct of criminal offences. However, the reading report raises the question of whether we have achieved an iron target by carrying out probation work, especially when we look closely at Table 5 of the report on the type of criminal offences that have led to the express work for the general good in 2019. Work for general good judgments has been expressed among other things in the crime against sexual abuse and exploitation of the child in 14 cases only in 2019. Lately, the problem of punishing sex delicacies to the harm of children has been updated so many times in the Croatian public space. In media acts, many NGOs and individuals have made clear demands to raise prescribed penalties in law and to severely punish perpetrators by courts. In certain scientific and professional circles and public changes, unquestioned consensus has been reached, sexual acts at the expense of children are considered one of the most serious offences. The perpetrators of these delicacies are at the lowest level of a scale of socially desirable behaviour and are referred to as “the bottom of the bottom”. Child molesters are placed in a person worthy of contempt because it is difficult to find a more hateful act than the one that impels the sexual integrity of a child. In their nature, these are insensitive, highly undesirable behaviors against human dignity, collective consciousness, and basic moral postulates of society. And while it is possible for most of the crimes to come to an understanding and compassion after revealing the difficult life opportunities in which the perpetrator lived and the circumstances that contributed to the initiation of the crime are such that there is no case of sexual abuse of children. Research has shown that when information is transmitted to the media about the child abuse case, the public will primarily start calling for retribution and retrieval through severe punishment of the perpetrator. On the contrary, however, our judicial system obviously does the opposite and rewards the perpetrators of these heinous crimes by working for the common good. Where'd they get that right? Resuming data on the type and number of convictions according to the State Statistics Office for the past 10 years, it is concluded that, if minor sanctions and penalties are excluded from a conditional sentence which, by the letter of the law, must be mitigated in order to make them conditional, the courts have imposed a minor sentence of almost half of the perpetrators. So far, analyses have shown that the public and political actors agree on one thing, and it is difficult to imagine any other behavior that, by its inadmissible, would be more difficult than sexual abuse of children, and therefore such acts must be punished by the most severe punishments. The call for retribution is explained by various criminal political reasons, and by the fact that nothing can really erase the trauma that the child has survived, but if we make sure that the severity of the punishment really corresponds to the severity of the crime then justice may be served. The legislator is expected to prescribe extreme repressive penalties for sex crimes, and courts are expected to impose such penalties, all in order to achieve the social objective of valid punishment. We at the National Movement Club commend the activities of the probationary office in October and November 2019 when probation officials participated in the project Improving the quality of justice through strengthening the capacity of strengthening the prison and probation system and support systems for victims and witnesses at the course of self-defense organised in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split. Within the same project, 5 officers of the probationary system began training to provide supervisory work in psychosocial work with officials or officials working with perpetrators of prisons and probational offices and victims of criminal acts, which we can also support and commend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9063	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mrs. Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9064	I'm going to get a little separated from the subject, but it seems to me that there are a lot more agendas that fund a new normality in a country where almost a million people live in danger of poverty, where 10% of people don't eat meat every other day, where more than 50% of people don't have a sudden cost, where they pay 37% of Western European salaries, in which 52% of the pensioners live in poverty, 300,000 children live in danger of poverty, some of them go to sleep hungry, while ruling a crisis that beats "new normal" to solve tax cuts for the richest once-taxed reform, most of which will have more than 30,000 kuna salaries. In a country where 90% of people have a salary of less than 15,000 kuna, 90 percent of contracts are signed annually. Maybe it's time to talk as part of the subject of penitentiary and prisons about murders and what leads to murder, social murders. First and foremost, what is thought to be taken into account the catastrophic state of the penitentiary, the question I have asked, means for a specific category of those already closed. It is obvious that the penitentiary does not meet even the minimum conditions, and the state is threatened with losses due to the lawsuits. In prison in Zagreb, persons deprived of freedom continue to eat, sleep and perform emergency. That is why the European Court of Human Rights issued a verdict last year that found that unsuitable conditions for the detention of prisoners in Zagreb prison reached a level of humiliating treatment. The Court of Justice of Strasbourg decided that the applicant had less than 3 m2 of living space at a certain time, such cases are many, only the lawyer of this case already has 200 such claims. It's obvious there's not enough space, capacity from 2019 to '18. Until '19. increased only by 19 places. I doubt that'll solve the problem. The ruling stop repeats that there is a "new normal" in force now alongside the crown and a slowdown of economic activity in the country, which is already in all the parameters of poverty and social exclusion at the very top of the EU, and we have a new Americanised phenomenon of mindless shooting and massacre on the streets of the category in which the wounded and suicide we saw in Zagreb is concerned, where the question is that it is possible that so young people come so easily to heavy weapons, a similar case occurred in Split of triple murder. Perhaps we should ask a slightly broader question about the material conditions of life that collapse for most in Croatia where we should start talking not only about killings but about social murders that occur before these violent acts, which was defined by the murder in 1845. Friedrich Engels in “The Job Class Position in England” and I will read it to you. "When one man inflicts a physical injury on another and the one that pulls the death of the injured, then we call it murder. And if the killer knew in advance that the injury would be lethal then we call it premeditated murder. But when society puts hundreds of proletaries in such a position that they must inevitably be reached by temporary unnatural death just as violent as the death of a rifle, when it deprives thousands of people of the most urgent living conditions, when it puts them in conditions where they cannot live, when by force of law it forces them to remain in those conditions that must occur as a consequence of these conditions and when it knows very well that these thousands must fall as victims of these conditions and yet those conditions do not destroy, then it is also murder with premeditation as well as that murder committed by an individual only because this murder is hidden, insidious, a murder from which no one can defend, which is not like murder because the killer is not seen because they are all and no one because death seems to be natural causes because we have not so many cases of criminal acts as a crime... acts, but it is still murder." I therefore hope that this society will be mature enough to improve social murder in recent times, and this murder can be ended not by making sure that the conditions of life for those who have crossed the border are fixed but by correcting all in Croatia who are peeling the fine majority who are left here, and who do not belong to the 2% of the richest, who own 50% of the wealth in banks and who are now struggling with the performance, poverty, depression and who cannot promise themselves or their children normal living conditions, but certainly cannot agree to a new normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9065	Thank you. Now the second individual debate will be held by Mr. Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9066	Thank you, Vice President HS. The secretary of state says hello again. My colleagues and colleagues. I think it's good that we have united these two reports, and this is about the situation in the prisons and prisons for 2019 and the report on the work of the Probation Service, if I think the more quality the work of the Probation Service is the less burden on the criminal system itself, especially on the system of penitentiary and prison in the Republic of Croatia. But here's looking at the number of subjects that the Probation Service gets every year and that solves it between 90 and 100% solved, so they definitely need both honest and precisely all the results that are, but normally we need to open up some topics, which is the situation in the penitentiary and prisons themselves, how humane, whether all the conditions, all the regulations and all the conventions that are in charge of the life of prisoners and all those who work in such services and such institutions. We've seen a lot of statistics in the report on penitentiary and prisons, there's some interesting data from the total number of prisoners, just the committing of the crimes that led them there and only the sentences and convictions that they're holding. As far as the total number of prisoners who went through the prison system is concerned, it is interesting that compared to 2018, we have an increase of 9.2% of prisoners, mostly crimes against property, and these are the maintenance of prison sentences between one and three years. It is also an interesting piece of information of this percentage that I opened something through the debate itself, through a replica, and during 2019, the measure of the prison investigation supported a total of 5.414 prisoners compared to 2018, which is a significant increase of 21.25%. We must be aware that regarding both the migrant crisis and the illegal crossing of our borders was a certain number of foreign citizens 19% of them in the prison system so that it also led to a certain increase. And it's interesting the same statistics about the employees of the prison system, even though we have mentioned in previous years that the prison system has been sub-cated as to staff, the fill-up is still at some 73%, so there's definitely room for progress. If I don't move on to statistics, I think she's relatively ok with complaints about the prison system itself by prisoners, the number of their resolutions, all the crimes or offences that take place in the prisons and penitentiaries themselves, I think it's more important that we might discuss a report on the probationary service itself if it does have a lot of impact on the criminal system itself. and it is good that the Probation Service has opened several major projects and at European level which are all in the cause and training of the officers themselves in the prison and probation system, related to both assistance and assistance to victims and witnesses in criminal proceedings, I think that there is definitely, with those small funds if I remember, by some 30, 40,000 kn that have been allocated to certain associations and colleges, we definitely need to strengthen the impact of just the universities in Croatia, especially those who have psychology, the Faculty of Law and others who would be interesting and only return to what I mentioned in the replica itself, which is precisely this system related to Norwegian funding, the implementation of electronic surveillance, I think that there is definitely a general good work that is now at a certain enviable level, and was definitely an ignorant of the judicial system itself, I think that it is precisely electronic, electronic, the GPS surveillance of the prisoners in the future, that we can not be able to complete the security of those prisons, which are not necessarily, and the less likely to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9067	Time, thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Zeljko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9068	Thank you very much. Here is the system of probation and execution of prison sentences, we spoke recently when we were in the EU in the context of the debate on amending the law on the enforcement of the Penal Code, so much has been said, but what should certainly be pointed out here is that in recent years... However, the conditions for the maintenance of prisons in Croatia, in particular, have changed significantly, the fact itself, have contributed more to the European Court of Human Rights' rulings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact that we have about 3919 places of imprisonment today and at this point we have a prisoner of about 3500, already says enough that the system is not as crowded as it was a few years ago, but certainly we can see from that report the efforts made by the employees of the judicial system, that all together works in accordance with the provisions of the KZ, the Penal Code, to achieve the purpose of punishment, but what is in the eyes of the report on the execution of prison sentences are the problems faced by judicial officers, and that is evident not only, the increased trend of increase is evident, even in 56 cases an authorised official, a judicial officer must use force against prisoners, and in the previous years it was about 18 cases, even in the reporting period, even this is an increase, it is a visible trend of increase, even in 56 cases by an authorised official, a judicial officer to use force against prisoners, and in the previous years it was about 18 cases, even in the previous cases, and in the previous cases of security of 15 years, and in the previous cases, and in the previous cases it has been committed to 15 years. So the trend of growth is. We need to see what's going on, why this discipline is going on, why it's very important, why it's breaking down, and how to remove it. As far as prison is concerned, I should also say in the context of that, I have already said it, Secretary of State, do everything to make it possible for people who come to their relatives, to visit their relatives in prisons, which is also encouraging, which is necessary, as we see and potential, to have as many opportunities as possible to take advantage of those rights as possible, not to make it impossible for them to do so, so as not to get high, not to bring them into a position of needless suffering, waiting 2.3 hours in a row, to suffer cold, winter, snow, rain that is here in prison, Remitincu, a regular case, to make that relative come there in one dignified way to visit a man with whom there is also a criminal, the need to meet with his relatives. As for the trial report, I congratulate the service and the people who have contributed to the establishment of such service in Croatia, and that is good, it is extremely important to reduce the number of relapses, we currently have in the field of probation about 3600 people who have as many as 26 and 36% relapses in the process. This is bad but we support the service as a service, but we support their report, but the criminal policy that is being implemented in Croatia at this time is not appropriate, it is too mild and work for the general good as an institute is unfortunately too liberal and unselective in any case, and it does not produce the results that the Croatian public expects and that fundamental sense of justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9069	Next individual debate, distinguished Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9070	... about the problems of women in the system. [[Specially enabled.]] In fact, we saw for ourselves or whoever looked at the first plate, I wouldn't say it's interesting to notice, but the fact that a woman is a prisoner in the system is 4.42%, not 5%, can mean an additional one, and that fact means that it may be more likely for their different discrimination precisely because our entire prison system is adapted to a male prisoner. It also speaks of recommendations from the European Committee's information document on preventing the torture of inhuman and humiliating treatment or punishment published by the Council of Europe in 2018 and it is called the Report of Women in Prisons and I wonder whether the Ministry has just analysed these recommendations and what it has done because according to the findings of the associations that I recommend here, I would very much like to, I believe, that there would be other interested ones, that there might be a meeting visit to prisons, that we should choose a women's prison in Požega, for example. male prison, I don't know, in Clay, so let's see if there are any differences that are spoken of and especially about women and family. And the defense attorneys have been telling for years the problems that prisoners have, from being assigned stereotype jobs in education, tailoring, sewing, working in the laundry or kitchen, whether we have a shift in this direction to teach women something else, you have seen if you have looked well, and age statistics, comfortable statistics worry that up to 30% to 40% of the prison system are men, so in the best years of work, as well as women, and then come even those 18 to 25. So, what we learn and whether we traditionally learn as in prisons educated stereotypely both of them, so men don't know how to make furniture. What's very important is to look at why there's only one penitentiary for women while for men we have seven and it's 200 kilometers away, preferably for each woman's research has shown from her home. What's the system, for example? made if you have in this year the number of children who visited compared to a year ago, you have in the Table Visit, in 2018. 528 visits and it fell to 260 in 2019, something may be there COVID, there are some different measures but it can't happen that women are depressed by visits of children. And we have other cases since you know that in the system women can be with a child up to 3 years old, it is controversial if a woman has entered the system and the child is left at home under a year of age, what are the possibilities and what is in the interest of the child who was born before the woman goes to prison. What also concerns the penitentiary itself, as arranged if a woman has the right to e.g. The weekends, the departures, the child she's with, it's gone, there's no one in the penitentiary but we've heard from women that they're looking after each other. So this may seem to us not to be some terrible discriminatory measure, but it's really talking about gender discrimination because we don't have such discrimination when it comes to prisoners because women also have the right to go away, what they call convenience, is whether, even go away for the weekend or even go to the movies, she has no one to leave her children to. He's very worried about that standard in the penitentiary, and I'm asking nicely whoever can, if he wants to deny me, I'd like to visit the penitentiary, that closed part of the penitentiary, we need to see how many women are stationed, compare it with the men's penitentiary, what the rooms look like, we've seen the exhibitions of a photographer as they say, cooled rooms. without any intimate women who are in those rooms. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9071	We have one replica, please wait. Dear representative of the Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9072	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boris, you spoke of the position of women in the penitentiary but do you think the position in the penal institution is adequate and is their treatment adequate in these institutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9073	Of course, that's what we need to talk about. So, we should talk about how kids, we heard what is really commendable, and in this report, sometimes some impossible circumstances like talking to COVID, all of us made us use more technology, so if nothing else, parents and children can see each other through video links, but we also need to see exactly that, in women's dormitory, they have to deal with it as long as, say, men are privileged in some penitentiary. All you need to see is the fact that there's so many juveniles and parents of underage children, the numbers are huge, the number of prisoners is 704 men, 36 children and the number of underage children whose parents are on trial, 1236 men and 78 women. So, if we're talking about parenting, they have rights and children...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9074	Time, thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9075	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We have two reports before us, as counterpart Bosnjakovic said, related to the administration of the prison system and probation so that they are connected. As regards the report on the work of the probation service for 2019, therefore, we have the Prosecution Act adopted in 2012, for the first time in 2018, the current law which is in force and that is the aim, therefore, of protecting the social community from the perpetrators of the crime, its resociation and reintegration into the community. D was now the work for the general good, now according to the 2019 report making the report for the judge of execution is the most represented probation work, but the importance of working for the general good which is almost 30%, therefore, there is a replacement for theft, heavy theft and unauthorized production and drug trafficking. What we can say, therefore, is that from a legal solution to the formation of a very active and professional organization, we have come in a relatively short period of time. Croatia's probation service is also ahead of the amount of funds withdrawn from the EU funds. She's also the winner of last year's awards. The money was funded by quality projects and training of probation officials, so I already mentioned this safety aspect that I think is very important, given that it is high-risk jobs. When we talk about the report, the state and the work of the prison penitentiary and the educational institutions, there was already talk, so the health care provided to the prisoners. I would specifically point out here to a very significant population within the penitentiary institutions, these are inmates addicts. If we look at, then, a report for 2019 in the prison system was almost 10% of the total prison population that refers to prisoners addicts. We can divide these inmates into two basic groups, so alcohol addicts, so these are people who have a long-standing alcohol addiction problem, when we talk about ethical, moral deprivation, therefore, of the shifting degree of personality failure. When we talk about drug addicts as one very, very demanding vulnerabilities, I would mention here, therefore, positive examples, so we can, however, I am convinced, all conclude that qualitative shifts in improvement and in providing quality protection for people in penal institutions are going to better. So on the one hand, we have a U.S. that's often been some positive example of where prisons actually turned into psychiatric hospitals. We do not have such a situation, and if we look at it, so we also refer to the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, which was first adopted in September 1997 in the House of Representatives of HS, is now the one that was adopted in June 2014, there are big, big changes when we talk about the right person with mental disorders where those persons who are innumerable are located in the centres of forensic psychiatry that we have at this point in the Republic of Croatia at Ugljan, Rab, at the Neuropsychiatric Hospital of Popovača and at the Hospital for Psychology Vrapce. So, if we look at the right person with mental disorders and if we compare it, let's say with the United States, then we can definitely say that it's quality, or that in some way it's differentiation, if we talk about people who are innumerable, they're in adequate institutions, and those persons who are downnumbered, they're in penal institutions and they're given some care. There, therefore, would be mentioned, in addition to psychiatric care, there is a question, given that very frequent and physical morbidities, the issue of services related to prevention and treatment of viral hepatitises and in the end, not a little, but very, very important, so the role of the NGO sector such as Terra, Vida from Rijeka, the Association of Rocks and many other associations, which are doing a significant job improving the right person with mental disorders. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9076	You have one replica, the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9077	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Celic, do you think that inmates in penal institutions are available drugs to a greater extent, since you are an expert in this area and would the purchase of a dog that would detect that presence of drugs be appropriate to prevent that problem in prisons?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9078	Dear colleague Nadj, thank you for this question that is very current. So when we talk about people who consume different substances, whether they're legal, whether they're illegal, it's available, unfortunately everywhere. So, of course she's not the same inside a health institution, inside a penitentiary or on the street. However, the most difficult way to reach certain substances is to make it available in penal institutions. There's a certain problem, so as far as illegal substances are concerned, I'd say they're almost inaccessible in penal institutions, but the problem is with psychopharmacs. So, whether it's substitutive opiate therapy, whether it's psychopharmacology therapy. Unfortunately, there is this problem, and I definitely agree if this is possible, so that a dog in a therapeutic sense is present in penal institutions, it already exists in certain health institutions, I think it's a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9079	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9080	... Secretary of State. [[Specially enabled.]] The report of this submitted to us in the healthcare system shows that in 2019 there were 201 prisoners older than 59 years, of which 188 men and 13 women, or accounted for 9.45% of the total population. From 60 to 70 years. There were 160 prisoners, from 70 to 80. 38 prisoners, 80 and over 3 prisoners. These health needs in the third lifetime are certainly high and in front of health care, the prison system puts a series of specific requirements regarding such situations. Also during 2019. There were 60 people with disabilities in the prison system, from which it may be necessary to separate that 8 people were in a wheelchair, which also puts specific health requirements in front of the prison system. The addicts are the most wanted treatment and safety group of prisoners, and during 2019, 1216 or 10% of the total number of prisoners and minors, drug addicts, were present in the prison system. If we know that addicts are prone to risky behavior in relation to the rest of the population in prison, self-harming, suicide attempts, conflicts, drug intake attempts and the like, and we know that they have a higher frequency of health problems such as hepatitis, HIV, a general poor condition. This is all before the prison system again and the employees who are working in this system poses additional challenges. The prison system aims to provide its prisoners with quality health care through hospital penitentiary, prison and educational institutions, and specialist health care and treatment is conducted at the prison hospital in Zagreb. During 2019, 50617 medical examinations of general medicine, 2726 dental examinations, 6374 psychiatric examinations were carried out, and I still do not list, which speaks enough about the connection of the prison system and the health system. I am therefore particularly pleased that good inter-resorship cooperation has changed in the Health Protection Act, and it is your prison hospital in Zagreb that is recognised as part of the health system, which will significantly improve the ability and quality of work. This means connecting the judicial and health system in the field of treatment and care for prisoners should continue. So I'm looking forward to stepping into telemedical bonding for these two systems. The complexity of prison services within the prison system as visible from this report requires additional steps to raise standards of health services, all with a view to the right to the health of all citizens wherever they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9081	Thank you. We have one replica, wait. Dear Representative Ivan Celić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Grba Bujević, as longtime director of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute, you know how important interconnection within the system is. I'm glad you mentioned, so the hospital for persons deprived of liberty is somehow integrated within the health system because that concept, for example, and independent military hospitals are somehow abandoned. It is only possible in large countries such as the United States, and in fact it does say in some ways how important it is for all of us to be connected together and thus contribute to better quality health care and those in penal institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9083	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9084	Thank you, Colic, that is exactly what I wanted to encourage with my debate that we all become aware that it is unusually important that it is actually no matter where the patient was in any system in which we were obliged, we should give him maximum care. What the healthcare system, the judicial health system, wants to introduce is what we introduced to you at the hospital in Vrapec, these are virtually psychiatric hospitals that work with you, and in this way we will improve the health care of the judiciary and a number of other things that we want to improve by working together because it is unusually important that we actually inter-resortly help each patient get a health care service.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9085	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9086	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, I guess if I wasn't a parliamentary representative, I'd never know about this information. I think this, these two points of the agenda, is very important in essence when this segment of society is about both the work of the probation service and, of course, the prison system in total. Of course, this is a set of figures that are mentioned here in the report, and they say for themselves what is important and emphasizes what may not be good, and should be solved at some point. Of course, the conditions of being in prison are something which is an elemental matter and should be extremely important to them, and therefore I agree with one of the initiatives that was here so that perhaps we as Assembly representatives should visit some of the prison institutions and see and see how these people and the way these people live there. What I want to use in this individual debate, and I don't know that much about it, so whenever I don't know something, I like to ask, the Secretary of State is certainly a person who can answer some of the questions. One piece of information that may seem a little bit strange to me when I read it like this, says work for the general good in 2019. It is often pronounced for crimes against property, theft, heavy theft, and for crimes against human health, unauthorized production and drug trafficking, and for the provision of drug use. I, as a layman in this, read from this that maybe working for the general good comes as a reward to some for the works done and certainly is not what should be sanctioned. Also one of the data that has been given to me is that the average cost per prisoner per prisoner is 410.91 kuna, with a meal per prisoner at 50.42 kuna per day, which is 1.1% less than the year behind us. What is certain to point out that all that we have heard in these discussions is that here the people who have spoken are relevant in the area of law and what can bring about improvement when it comes to the work and testing services of course and the prison system should generally be kept in mind, on this point, these are serious topics and should be discussed seriously, so I want to say in the end only that the man who comes from the area of Osijek-Baranja County, and we have heard that, already from individual debates here, that the most precisely of these works when it comes to probation is from our county and I want to point out, of course, the problem of prison in Osijek that has been recapacitated. We have a lot more people than I allow space and what it should be. I therefore hope that in the time ahead we will improve these conditions and that the prison in Osijek will also be in those gauges, or in those capacities that are prescribed by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9087	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marija Jelkovac. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9088	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here's a few sentences on these two very important topics. So, as already noted today by colleagues who spoke before me, I think it is indeed commendable and visible in fact all the results that have been made in these few years by the probation service and commendation are all their efforts that make each year's results better. It is also evident that in 2019, a new 119 contracts with new legal entities with which it is possible to work for the general good, which must have a significant role for the adequate service of penalties in this way for society, as well as for the rehabilitation of those who have been punished. What I have in my mind is always a particularly interesting topic, which is the situation in the prison system, so I have followed these reports very closely in the past term and what is still worrying is the fact that the Secretary of State himself said that we still do not have enough, enough space conditions for all the needs we have in this system and it is certain that this will be the most demanding problem to be solved in the future. However, what I would point out is certainly commendable to see improvements in this entire system year by year. First of all, we also see in the introduction of some newspapers, and this is the introduction of an electronic mindset which I think is very important in this part of this section while it lasts and it takes an investigative prison. I think the problem with the transfer of investigative prisons is, in fact, a big problem and because of the conditions in which people are staying there first and because we know ourselves in investigative prisons are still people who are not legally punished. Therefore, I think we should really make sure that they have adequate conditions for staying there. Of course they're not expected to have the same conditions as in their living room, but I think these conditions should meet those basic standards. As far as the other improvements in the prison system are concerned, I think it is above all necessary to mention what is proposed by the new proposal of the Prison Penal Code, which is for longer, to allow the extended stay of small children with their mothers serving the prison sentence, if that sentence is nearing the end so that I think it's good. First of all, for human reasons and for the fact that these children should be at least, as much as possible to feel that prison sentence served by their mother and thus enable them to still be with their mother for as long as possible. What is also visible to improve the possibility of contact with other family members through these video conferences, which is also commendable. What in some ways we should also pay attention to is the issue of violence in the penitentiary itself and the prison system among prisoners because as we see and witness the increase in the number of violence in society in general. I think the issue within the prison system is a serious question. What I would especially point out, which is a concern for people who work in the prison system. I don't think that without these people it would really be possible or to do what we do today, or to make these progress in that system, and I think that as a society, we need to make sure that these people are adequately and rewarded, that they are also taken care of in a way that they have certain professional training, we know that it's not a simple and easy job, that these people are staying in these premises and with prisoners for the whole working life, some of them for their entire working life, some of them not, but some of them do. So here I think, in this respect, people really need to be taken care of. And what is absolutely important is that after serving a prison sentence we worry as a society about adequate rehabilitation of those who get out of prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9089	The last individual debate is the distinguished representative of Willy Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9090	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm not gonna take up much of your time, I just need to say a few more words that I just didn't get there since these two debates came together. Of course the colleagues are here and the colleague just mentioned that the big problem is the number of officers in the judicial police who, among other things, this year in the report we see it reduced, not by some large number, which I think is 17 and that it all makes 1%. However, since they are also not enough to complain, of course, about working conditions, I see that they are trade unionally well organised which I am pleased to do, and in this regard, the question of collective agreement can obviously be negotiated. These are relatively low wages for such an important job, among other things in the report by the Ombudsman’s public defender for shell rights among other things, the same is mentioned by the witnesses of the people working in the system and who are judicial officers and who are talking about actually being held by the meaning and purpose of the job and the feeling of helping people anyway. I want to believe, unlike a colleague who asked if they could come and be in prisons, of course that's good, I agree with my colleague, Boric. However, my colleagues and I actually wanted to say a few words about it, my colleagues not only theatre players, actors, directors but also generally artists come into the prison system and keep workshops there, and that is exactly how people adapt to new circumstances when they return to society or in completely new circumstances where they find themselves in prison. Here's one of these things is also mentioned in Zagreb by investigative prisoners who have to be together with the convicts inside, one of the things is to say this famous prison in Zagreb that he doesn't have the ability to work, there are no several forms of workshops, several kinds of work that helps people. People are truly condemned to be 22 hours a day, except for two hours of walking that they are real and thinking about horror, and consider that there are still unjudged people there and that there is a very great possibility that there are innocents among them. Then, only this year, the work of these prisoners has brought 33 million 854 thousand kuna, however, there is no precise way of getting that money back. I personally saw it coming back to Leprechaun and I saw it, but I don't see why it wouldn't be in the reports. In Lipovica my colleagues are also doing so within these programmes that have just finished last year, three-year projects, which I think is good to do three-year projects for such associations, especially since money for such projects is an association that works and helps to resociate people in prison that it is the money that comes from the profits of the Croatian lottery. Consider the law is certainly good because when we look at the situation in any neighborhood in Zagreb, but also in smaller cities, which is usually in one street and in the center of three, four sports betting stations and that might be one of the main ones I would almost say is industry, that should say so. But we know very well if I'm in charge that these guys will be happy to help me get in charge of them too, and then comes this whole chain of problems that ends in the end. I support these three-year-olds especially for associations like the Scribunauts. I apologize for the extension, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-14-0.u9091	Here's what we've exhausted from the full debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2019. Have a nice afternoon. The session was interrupted at 13:42 p.m.
