ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs. The objective of this legislative proposal is to fully comply with the EU acquis through an amendment to the legislative framework for the management of the safety of the railway system with the objective of aligning it with the technical pillar of the 4th railway package. In view of the broad and comprehensive changes made to the EU Directives consisting of a technical pillar of the 4th railway package, it was necessary to access the creation of a new comprehensive proposal for a law on safety and interoperability of the railway system. This draft law provides that the EU Railway Agency shall issue a single safety certificate to railway undertakings carrying out their activities in the field of several EU Member States as well as approvals for railway vehicles, unlike until now when a railway carrier or vehicle manufacturer has had to obtain a specific certificate or approval for each EU Member State. The responsibilities and obligations of the Agency for the Safety of the Railway System, which shall also be entrusted to the tasks of inspection oversight of law enforcement and shall determine the powers and obligations of the inspector. Conditions relating to conformity assessment bodies carrying out conformity assessment procedures related to the relevant TSIs or national rules shall be laid down, the conditions relating to EC declaration of conformity or conformity for use. The basic provisions on an independent investigating body are laid down and the procedure for the investigation of railway accidents and incidents and the obligation to carry out research on serious accidents in the railway system is established. Basic provisions laying down the conditions for the development and management of rail transport in a safe manner, railway infrastructure-related areas and internal order and protection of rail infrastructure and vehicles shall be laid down. The system of authorisation of machinery operators shall be laid down through the issuing of licences and certifications to engineers and the provision of conditions relating to executive workers in the railway system performing the tasks directly involved in the conduct of rail traffic and administrative inspection, infringement provisions relating to the implementation of this law and the prudential fines shall be prescribed. The purpose of this bill is to remove remaining barriers and create a single European rail space in accordance with European legislation. The EU Railway Agency will assume new responsibilities as part of the authorisation of placing a vehicle on the market, issuing single safety certificates and issuing prior authorisation for technical solutions to the European rail traffic management system. All applicants shall report their requests through a single access point to be developed and maintained by the EU Railway Agency. Application for the authorisation of vehicles and a single certificate for railway undertakings operating only within the borders of a Member State, i.e. National or domestic carriers, the applicant will be able to request from the EU Railway Agency or the Railway Safety Agency as the national safety authority. The relevant certificate of safety of the railway undertaking is a prerequisite for obtaining access to the railway infrastructure by the infrastructure manager to demonstrate the establishment of a safety management system and to carry out activities in a secure manner in the area covered by that certificate. It is important to point out that the security management system represents organisational solutions, measures and procedures set up by the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking in order to secure the management of its activities. The infrastructure manager whose task is to carry out the operation of railway infrastructure management shall be obliged to establish a safety management system that proves through the assurance of the safety issued by the Railway Safety Agency. 4. The railway package also represents major changes for the Railway Safety Agency, as it will now co-operate with the EU Railway Agency on tasks previously only in its jurisdiction. As part of the amended EU Railways Agency, new responsibilities and tasks are given and the central body within the EU is authorised to issue the single security and vehicle authorisation certificates mentioned. The Railway Safety Agency will work closely with the EU Railway Agency and thus receive new complex tasks whose implementation and decision-making process will be under constant supervision by the EU Railway Agency. Further growth and development of the rail system within the EU and further liberalisation and competitiveness of the rail market depend on the development and application of rail packages that are gradually and unconstitutionally creating a single European railway space. The implementation of this law has no financial impact on the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183202	I thank the minister. We've got seven replicas, the first one's a colleague of Kirin's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183203	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with... The Croatian part of the transport 5B corridor connects these two sea models, Rijeka port, railways. [[Specially enabled.]] So, please, are we in the strategy a little slower is the big problem of the Rijeka-Karlovac shares in terms of both reconstructions and construction of a new low-level railway? Is there a time frame? When will it begin to strike, build and what is the EU's position and interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183204	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183205	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Although it is not related to this law, I expected today to have a discussion and a question about building railway infrastructure today in Croatia. Today, we invest about a billion euros in building railway infrastructure and the most active, let's say, the corridor is exactly the Mediterranean Corridor that connects the Port of Rijeka with Budapest. We currently, here, at the end of 2019 signed a contract for the start of construction of the railway from Karlovac, i.e. the Croatian Leskovec to Karlovac. The competition will now be discussed, funds are provided, and the complete project and study documentation is in the works it is also funded, the EU for the construction of an entire section to Rijeka. What we expect.../incomprehensible/... the railway will be built entirely by 2030 at the latest, that is the plan and in the strategy, that is, what we expect, of course, EU funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183206	Thank you, Minister. Let's go to another replica now, Comrade Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183207	Thank you very much. All directives, Ministers, on rail transport security in infrastructure security speak the fact that from Split to Zagreb today 2 hours longer than in 90 years. It would be a shame to change it all, it's good to make Western movies, slow trains go, you can catch him, walk out, have breakfast, eat, then walk him. Therefore, absolutely Croatia is forgotten about rail infrastructure, and particularly about security. In Western films there is much better rail infrastructure because the weather... What's the real situation? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it a real situation, you want to change it from Split to Zagreb within the time limit you speak? Whether these funds are secured and whether the project documentation is finished because you often call for project documentation. Railway infrastructure is in catastrophic condition in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183208	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183209	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I repeat, Croatia is currently investing in rail infrastructure around a billion and a half euros in Croatia. Mostly projects located on the Mediterranean Corridor, on the former 10th Corridor, Zaprešić-Zabok, Vinkovci-Vukovar, etc., that I do not count them all together now. As far as the Zagreb-Split railway line is concerned, we cannot build a whole railway and rebuild the entire railway infrastructure in Croatia in 5 years. We're going to need a lot of funding and a lot of projects to do that. We took one dynamic, one real framework that was realized by 2030. As for the share towards Split, the figure line was restored, so that's where the positive shifts take place. Let's not expect that in the term of one government, one or the future, a complete railway infrastructure in Croatia will be resolved. Let's be realistic and, of course, we all create this one consensus together, there are resources, and I think we can all do it together by 2030.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183210	Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183211	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament. You are saying that the implementation of this law should increase the safety and quality of rail transport in Croatia and, of course, that we from HSS support it, however, the investments you mention are not enough and are not as fast as it should be to reach developed Europe, so here I am interested in what dynamics the construction of the railway will take place towards Slavonia, means Zagreb-Novska, Novska-Nova Gradiška, according to Vinkovci and Vukovar, and especially because there are many railway crossings that are not arranged where many of our agricultural producers cross and suffer at railway crossing points every day. And the second question about these investments, whether your ministry and HZ Infrastructure and HZ Cargo could be partners with Đuri Djakovic, healing through this particular investment, through the construction of the wagon, we see that the EU market is competitive, why Croatia can't order cars and thus employ Đura Djakovic's capacities and save jobs in Slavonski Brod. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183212	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183213	Like this, first of all, when it comes to the railroad to Slavonia. all shares not built according to Vinkovci are currently in the design and production of project and study documentation. We will sign a 500m-euro grant contract for the first Okucani-Vinkovci share in the term of the government. It means that in 2021, a tender for that stock is likely to be opened. So, rebuilding the railroad towards Slavonia is a priority and we attack this together with the Mediterranean Corridor and there are funds for this and project and study documentation is being prepared. Railway road crossings now go 50 arrangements for new railway and road crossings, it is funded by the World Bank, and here, two days ago we received a positive IQR report for the purchase of a new 21 electric trains. More than a billion kuna. So we systematically invest in railways. I repeat, let's not expect in the term of office 4 or 5 years old so we can do anything. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183214	The 4th and 4th is the turn of fellow Curai, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183215	I thank the Honorable President, Your Honor. I mean, as far as the law in question is concerned, that there is no dispute and that everyone, all the laws that go to increase security and actually issue these and unique certificates, and that we are going to hand over the economy itself, faster flow and goods, and at the very end of the line and transport of passengers, that it is generally accepted. What we're hearing here today is that we all recognize the need to have a good rail infrastructure because what the public may not even know is that our trains are not slow because of the age of the locomotive, but because of the state of the infrastructure itself where they cannot develop the speeds they otherwise developed and that is why we have such delays. What I'm interested in specifically for the city of Osijek is, as far as security is concerned, and when we're talking about the safety of rail transport, it's an overpass or underpass on St. Peter's Street. Leopold Bogdan Mandic, who was included in some project documentation, do you perhaps know what stage he is in and when we might expect it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183216	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183217	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The answer to your question, I know what this is about. It is a project, which seems to me to be around 40 or about 50 million kunas for which we need to find funds and the solution that is being seen now and which we are looking for is that we try to finance it through our ministry through EU funds, so that the services of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure along with HZI and Croatian Roads are looking for a solution to discuss, that is, regional development to call the public and try to finance this project in this perspective. We're looking for solutions, I think we're close to handling it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183218	5th is up, Comrade Ante Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183219	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, Your Honor. So last year we witnessed the opening of the St. Ivan Žabno – Gradec has been financed in the entire 12.5 km debt with the European Regional Development Fund and from the Cohesion Fund. Since this bill is actually governed by areas related to development, governance and security, and as regards the railway that you spoke about between Split and Zagreb and aware that it is not possible to improve the railway in the way we would like to, let's say that these funds can be used for one central if you want a central digital governance system that we don't care about traffickers and traffickers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183220	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183221	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, at the end of 2019, apart from opening that railroad after 50 years, it's so small and funny when you say that after 50 years you opened the first 12 km track. We signed and opened, opened works, signed a contract for Vinkovci – Vukovar project worth 70 million EUR, construction started, and HZ Infrastructure made a decision for the project Koprivnica – Križevci – Hungary border, 2 billion kuna, that is already more than the Pelješki bridge. The project that has been decided on the selection, and here we are now waiting for these appeals to be completed, and that's where the works will begin. As far as this particular issue of yours is concerned, anything that improves the system that digitises it, which reduces costs, which is being implemented in the restructuring of the railway system itself, both through the European Funds and with the help of the World Bank. And the letter of sector policy that the government will bring over in a month, two days, because it is the same at the end, will define this part so that the digital system will also be the future of course the reality of the railway.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183222	Thank you, thank you, Minister. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183223	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, it's important these two laws we're going to discuss today, but we're all obviously interested in the state of infrastructure, and especially here I am, we come from the Primorje-Gorski County. There begins a railway or railway that should connect us to the Hungarian border and has been discussed for decades. What have we done about this, what can we do in the city of Rijeka at the very beginning at the train station, do we have certain improvements in view of its appearance and everything that it meant for some in history? And of course what I'm interested in is certainly, not only the railroads as such but also what about trains? Do we have any programs or something to modernize this system, too, that it is really suitable for the 21st century in which we live? There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183224	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183225	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, two major projects are currently being implemented in Rijeka, one on the container terminal, one on the Zagreb coast of the total value of EUR 60 million, just to restore the railway infrastructure. That's one thing. The second reconstruction of the Railway Station in Rijeka goes, the funds are secured and we will begin very soon. It was in the media a few days ago, so along with the city of Rijeka because of the initiative, however, I say Infrastructure is leading it and it is also going. As for the low-level railway, the Mediterranean corridor, I repeat the most important projects that are currently being done, are being worked on the Mediterranean corridor, we are moving for the first time in the term of this government towards Rijeka, we have signed Hrvatski Leskovac – Karlovac, we are also left with this most demanding part of which I expect, project and study documentation is being prepared, I expect funding from the EU. It's our best, of course there's a model of concession. As far as trains are concerned, a new 21 motor train, more than a billion kuna, has arrived on funding from the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183226	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague, Macar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183227	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, my question concerns the railways, but not directly to this law, although it contributes to greater security, thereby the railway's desire for more frequent transport. I'll ask you a question about integrated passenger transport. It's a big problem in rural areas and there's a lot of talk about it. Namely, Varazdin County, Međimurje County and Koprivnica-križevanja made a master plan that ended in January 2017. Do you as a ministry have any knowledge about this and what you as a ministry are doing to introduce integrated transport where the railroad should be a backbone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183229	Thank you very much, Madam Representative, a whole series of contracts was signed in 2019 precisely in the Countys of Primorje-goranska, Osijek about integrated transport, where the railway as one of the most important factors is mentioned especially in these land-based counties, so we have knowledge and we are monitoring the situation that many counties in Croatia have started with this. What's actually going on in Varazdin County I can't tell you right now, I'm going to check it out, so either I'm going to call you or I'm going to give you a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183230	Thank you, Minister. So we've come to an end with the replicas, so now I'm asking the committee's rapporteur if she wants to take the floor? If not, I am opening the debate is the first turn of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183231	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow ministers, the subject is important when it comes to security. However, this is about the directive and obligations of Croatian legislation towards the EU and when we talk about transport security in this case on rail transport on the Agency which will be controlled in the area of the signatories of this legislative act. Once we get this act, we'll be under that agency. I am pleased that the minister is offering solutions, it is a pre-election year, the financial framework due to the European Commission's annual completion. Of course, the results should now be visible and realised, and they are unfortunately, in this financial framework, respected ministers are minor. We know that now, here's the financial framework for the next period is working out, meaning seven years, which means I am aware of your role, I am aware that the pre-election year, I am aware of your efforts to solve this problem because it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and anyone would say that rail transport and security, mainly these lines that we list for the development and safety of rail traffic would mean it would be absurd to talk about it at all. However, here you can also boast with 50 years open only now after 50 years of new railway line so I would say here there is one important line that would connect the Dalmatian Zagora with Split, it is the old Sinjska rera the only link between the Cetin area or the ferata so it would be good to restore here and for tourism, but also for traffic safety connections of the Dalmatian Zagora. It's a cetinal landscape. It would be a significant project and touristic as I said, as well as a security transport is a promise from the fast road you have made, you will probably now repeat again as in Imotski that Zagvozd-Imotski will be built, but only now are the cornerstones set up so that you can start building it. Of course traffic safety is number one, and I believe that when we accept this and declare that it will actually be respected in reality. But the fact is that from the 1990s to today trains are slower by several hours, the infrastructure is like I said during the Wild West when it was, we saw it in Western movies, it would be a shame to change it, we can make a tourist profit. Priya can come from Zagreb from Split to Zagreb or vice versa than with the train and with that fast line only slower you can walk, you can have lunch somewhere along the way and reach it on foot. It is a reality, when we talk about reality and when we talk about ending now when we only praise the EU by entering this financial framework, we are about rail transport at the bottom. We're not all assets pulled, you can laugh. ... He's going to Mile's Licking Strip, see how the minister knows that song. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But the fact is that now that we're talking about security, I'd like this to be respected security. Unfortunately, our citizens often warn of train slowness, train failures, lines, so that's reality. As much as a list of your pre-election promises can be made, God forbid you make it happen. I'd be the happiest if you could make it all happen to be our safest railroads, the fastest. But leave these, leave these, because it would be a shame to see this because of the tourist attraction. I'd like it all to be respected, everything you said to be done, and twice as much. I believe that you can do even more in the next period behind the elections, that you will do even more to question who will get the chance, that is, of course, the question. You're making a nice promise, you're making nice eyes to the people, and you may probably get how much you rub your eyes on the people. It doesn't make sense. You're a real pro, as far as the railway infrastructure is concerned. And security is very important, Minister, a little joke aside. I believe that even now our competent institutions are working on rail safety. But here I would take advantage of this one moment of this pay phone, isn't it very often that the minister here is in the traffic assembly, and the other ministers very rarely came here, they don't have much courage, so I would use it to say that we have a problem in traffic as far as security is concerned in general. Not only the railway problem, we have a problem with what we often get worse buses, that's what you're familiar with. I also sent three months ago an inspection to be carried out and they did a search, so they informed me that they sent it to the police, but still the buses upstairs carrying the students of 10 buses last year almost burned down. We know Ministers that for the sake of traffic safety, we've been passing taxi laws, i.e. The rules set out not 7 years of age i.e. Cars have been taxis for five years. And here, believe me, the older buses don't know maybe from me and you. It's a disaster where our children are being led and parents are in fear. Here I take advantage of this because I sent it to the police, and yet nothing answers, parents are afraid. Here I can give an example of Prometheus Sinj, i.e. Owner of Prometheus Makarska i.e. Mate Junovica where the orderly state pays subsidies to students, local self-government, county, city, but children are driven on buses. God forbid only 4 buses have been burned recently in the area of Sinj of Prometo Sinj, 4 buses. Only by the skill of the driver did the children remain alive. Minister, don't let God happen, just by the skill of the driver, I repeat if you spoke, the children were pulled from the burning buses. I've sent an inspection for what time, the inspection says she made a report, that she sent it to the police, the police have been keeping quiet for three months, and the same buses in a catastrophic situation are driving our children. I think it's very important, no matter what I went off topic, but it's within the safety of all of us, our children. Parents will take, they expect to solve this parent problem, I will now have press, parents will start civil activities. This is mainly in rural areas where schools, where people stay, are the two-thirds of Croatia. And of course the bus owner, the easiest thing is there are those old buses, safe subsidies local self-government a little subsidized, a little county, regional self-government and school founder, a little ministry and it's safe money for him because right away it's being paid, and the behavior towards our dick, I'm telling you the most serious, buses are who I don't know from Rwanda 30 years ago if you've seen those documentary movies. The simple safety of our children is compromised, parents are in fear. My parents call me every day. If nothing is done, if we could limit the taxi to 5 years, the buses have no limitations, who knows how old it is. They're worried about the owners. It's important to drive a drawer. But we have to stop this, this is an appeal and cry out to heaven. My parents call me every day. My parents are gonna go into civil action. Do not be surprised if they come to you in front of the ministry, if the triba I will bring them, are they calling me daily in fear of sending their children and students to Split and to the regional schools, which are mostly areas where schools are being shut down and where we should invest in as much quality as possible just to keep our parents, those young families from staying here, and we are chasing them this way. Thank you very much. I'll also have a press release. In this case, we have to be unique and finally a statue of this mob, a corrupt mob or if they weren't corrupt, then they wouldn't be driving buses like that, someone would react by now and not make fun of me as a parliamentary representative. They're sending me some answers. They're not actually doing anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183232	The second debate, Club of HDZ Representatives, esteemed colleague Pero Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183233	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a new comprehensive Proposal for a Law on the Security and Interoperability of the Railway System in the first reading, and it brings our legislation into line with the acquis of the EU and IV. The railway package. It shall be coordinated with the package presented through the technical and management pillar and through the removal of remaining legal administrative and technical barriers to strengthening the competitiveness of rail transport. This draft law transposes the provisions of four European directives governing the areas of interoperability, the safety of the railway system, the authority of the driver and the working conditions of mobile workers, i.e. this proposal regulates areas relating to the development, management of safety and the achievement of interoperability of the railway system. Areas relating to the safe management and take-up of rail traffic to carry out the activities of infrastructure managers and railway undertakings to engineers and other executive workers shall also be governed, to the conduct of the body responsible for the safety of rail transport and rail accident research bodies and to safety and inspection supervision. The proposal for this law introduces improved standards of rail safety that require increased activities and responsibilities of all participants in the railway system, especially rail infrastructure managers and carriers. In addition to all technical standards that must be met, the conditions to be met by executives and engineers as well as in health skills and in the professional capacity to carry out these tasks and their continued training and training. Therefore, the proposed law combines all the good solutions so far and brings improvements, i.e. a new regulatory framework for the management of the safety of the railway system. A system for issuing single certificates of safety and approval for placing a vehicle on the market shall be established, the EU Railway Agency shall be designated as issuing a single safety certificate to railway undertakings carrying out their activities in the field of several EU Member States, while each rail carrier has so far had to issue a special certificate for each EU Member State. Furthermore, it is prescribed that the EU Agency shall issue an authorisation for placing on the market railway vehicles while so far it has been carried out by national authorities in charge of railway safety. As it has been so far, our national regulatory body will continue to regulate the safety of the railway system, it is the Railway Safety Agency. Where the area of operation of the railway undertaking is restricted only to the territory of the Republic of Croatia, this agency may, on the basis of the request of the applicant, issue a single safety and approval certificate for placing the vehicle on the market. The Agency shall also carry out an active exchange of views and experiences within the framework of the network set up by the EU Railway Agency for the purpose of harmonising criteria and monitoring the development of railway safety at EU level. It is evident that the intensity of the proposed law is a systematic rise and improvement of the level of safety of the railway system and the creation of a competitive rail system in line with EU legislation and technical and scientific progress. The smooth rail transport across the EU network needs to be standardised and quality interconnection, integration of information and communication experiences, different infrastructure managers and railway undertakings, or compatibility of the system, is a basis for greater security but also for better quality and less transport costs. These new solutions and these bill proposals are an opportunity to look back on the state of the Croatian railways in general. The efficiency of the Croatian railway continues to lag behind the railways of other EU countries, and much of it is caused by an outdated infrastructure and property that requires great intensity of human labour. Unfortunately, there is a lot of evidence and examples of this lagging behind, as an example, it can be stated that on most of our railways we do not have centralised remote rail traffic management which causes poor results in terms of rail efficiency, this means that today the rail traffic in Croatia is regulated exclusively by train and turntables and the introduction of centralised remote rail traffic management on a wider part of the network through dispatch, it would increase the efficiency of the railway itself by reducing the number and share of human work, estimated that around 1500 workers should no longer work on these jobs that work today, in addition to increasing the rail and station capacity, while avoiding investment in the construction of new railway infrastructure, would increase the energy efficiency of train driving, reduce other costs related to the exploitation of the systems and increase the quality of rail services. The safety of the railway system must be systematically maintained and improved because the outdated technology on trains and railways they drive daily contributes to potential catastrophic accidents. Last amended by the Security and Interoperability Act 2017, railway undertakings in infrastructure managers were required to equip a vehicle designed for automatic train protection, etc. Autostop device, by installing this system on HH passenger transport vehicles as well as all other freight operators, is important to raise the level of safety for passengers, train staff and other road users and I am glad that HH has agreed such a business with the Croatian domestic company and that it is a domestic product which is here, certainly one example which is optimism. In working debates in the laws governing the railway area, I mentioned that the European Commission has designated itself a railway as the backbone of public transport in the EU because the railway is the fastest and safest transport of goods and services, in addition to that of rail transport administrations, it will also help solve traffic congestion in large cities, and reduce exhaust and harmful gas emissions that are harmful to human health. Modernisation of the Croatian railway and the development of the railway network should go, be a function of sustainable balanced development and effective gradual integration into the common European market. In order to ensure the provision of quality and security services in the rail system, there is a great need for further investment, investment, except in rail infrastructure, which is necessary for the development of rail transport should also focus on the organisation and provision of rail services, as well as on the management and control of rail transport. One example is certainly the introduction of mobile communications, i.e. rail GMS-R network, which is one of the most important elements for safe and automatic train management, and the advantages and GMS networks are numerous, such as improvements, improved train tracking logistics, payment, route, means railways through which certain trains drive, improving rail service, on-line ticket sales, on-line passenger information and generally by introducing GSM-R networks will offer the railways even today unintelligible opportunities to improve services on the train and in the railways, thus increasing economicity. The railway must be one of the generators of growth and development of the Croatian economy, and the start of an investment cycle of 3.5 billion in railways for the next 10 years. It is certainly an opportunity for the domestic industry or Croatian companies that are connected to the railways, as well as those that have already successfully placed their high, high, high-tech products on the market, to engage and contribute to the development of railways and the recovery of the entire national economy. In this context, I must mention the companies of the daughter or daughter associated companies that are precisely building and the railway industry is a basic activity, unfortunately a good part of this specialized industry in the Republic of Croatia is in a difficult state and meet various challenges, e.g. The company of Pručna ravine d.o.o. is the daughter of HZ Infrastructure, has the capacity to implement major projects in the railways, but according to European rules, the related companies of the users of European funds and credits of development banks due to conflicts of interest cannot carry out works on, on such European projects, I think it should be hasty to determine the investors of an investment that, which is not related to, or with, the company of Prussian Building, so that it can be involved in building and modernising railway infrastructure and thus ensure a stable business and preserve jobs that, at present, this company employs about 1600 workers, our neighbours of the Slovenians have entrusted it to the Transport Safety Agency and this approach has resulted in further development and their company, I think that they are doing one project and at our Zagreb port in Rijeka, but as far as I know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is looking for a solution, and I think that this is the mention of the Ministry of State Property, it would be good to find that these companies that they can be included in this big investment. In terms of better development, a new and perhaps old structure of Croatian railways should be considered in the form of a holding group or a group that would make up HZ Cargo, HZ Travel Transport, HZ Infrastructure with its societies, such a structure is already more economical with our neighbours in Slovenia and Slovenia, Austria, Germany, France and has proven that such a form of society on the one hand is more economical, and on the other hand it promotes modernisation and development. Finally, the country has developed just as much as its railway has been developed and it is high time for the Croatian railway to monitor our country's development and become a modern European railway of the 21st century, so here it is necessary to work systematically on measures that will refresh business processes in Croatian railway companies in order to make full use of the investment to improve the railway as a whole. The adoption of this law in the proposed text will have a positive impact on the development of the railway services market for the integration of the Adriatic ports with the EU, on the development of specific expertise and industry in the railway sector. Finally, the adoption of this bill creates a quality and modern legislative framework for development, and proposes better organisational solutions and measures for the necessary modernisation of the interoperability system and greater safety on the railway, so the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183234	I thank you, it is now up to the club of GLAS representatives and respected counterpart Nada Turina Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183235	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, so since this bill is essentially technical harmonisation with EU legislation or with directives, and it is aimed at something that everyone cares about, which is to achieve the highest possible standards in transport security, in this case it is about rail transport, of course there is no obstacle and there is no reason why we do not all unanimously support it, however. But, of course, these are some opportunities, because when such points are opened to talk about the situation in the portfolio, in this case about the state of the Croatian railways and the minister himself was actually in his opening interpretation of the change of the law most about what the situation in the railways is, or what the plans of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the next period, so, of course, my and most of my discussion will be focused on that part, which is what the Republic of Croatia has done in the past, or what should be done and whether all that currently happens in the investments or even the functioning of the Croatian railways is something that Croatia as a member of the EU should satisfy because somehow this bill and what the real state of things are heaven and country. So we are talking about standards or laws that guarantee the most possible standards, but the most possible standards in EU railways. Most of us, and a good part of Croatian citizens, have had the opportunity to travel, I trust the railways within the EU, in countries which are the founders of the EU, so I guess most of us were or were surprised how it works, that is, how great it works and how much transport and traffic it is, we are mostly talking to travel companies well organised and cheap. It connects Europe and the centres of Europe along and across and for relatively small money it is possible for all European citizens to communicate or travel to the railways. And, of course, Europe cares about all these standards being maximum or equal to standards to facilitate both themselves and operators and infrastructure functioning of this otherwise very complex and demanding and relatively expensive system in terms of investment and in terms of maintenance. However, we are here somewhere, I would say completely beyond that story since our railways, the condition of our railways, and at all our commitment back 10, 15 years towards investment in the railways does not show results, or does not show and we do not seem to be pursuing it. Those who saw it or tried it with us and tried, say, in some French, how it works in France, that's something that's absolutely incomparable at this point. Therefore, in order to apply such laws, we must make, above all, some strategic political decisions and provisions, so that one or another government, no, every time in one part. Because I can't, you can't say that neither this or the former governments have done anything, but when the news is that 12 km after 50 years, 12 km of a railroad is open, then it turns out funny compared to what is actually expected by this law and by the state of the railways in Europe. Therefore, I think that much stronger, much more responsible, I do not speak only from the position of the opposition or for the reason that I would hit the government's pucks which, at present, is the government in Croatia, but some of the governments, I hope that this could be yours, or your ministry should set much more of the goals of the Republic of Croatia regarding investment in the Croatian railways. As Croatia has been strategically defined for dealing with road infrastructure, it was expensive, it was clear to everyone. Today it is paid, there have been stories of why, whether or not, it will be too much of a burden, but these roads are something that has been returned to the Croatian people through the fact that the economy, and especially tourism, has lived up to it in the Republic of Croatia, has been kind of revitalised. However, it also has its limits. Croatia as a tourist country, as a country that needs additional economic growth, must find more opportunities to improve this growth. One of the options for me and our belief in the GLAS Club of Representatives is to define a strong investment momentum, which will, of course, be supported by EU finances and funding, especially in these main corridors that are tied to European corridors and the EU's total network, to... That, those stories of projects, I think the government in which, which was in power, which was conditional on my government, was, and in that government we heard about the projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know what's really going on with these projects. Do we always do them again because we are being relegated in some other repositories, or what is going on here that we are forever and again doing projects? It is not possible to establish projects that we can offer, which will be financed from either the EU budget or the national budget or the common budget, is it? First of all, I will say something about this railway which, Rijeka-Zagreb, is whether, therefore, I say ours because you from the Primorje-Gorski County and we haven't realized, I recently drove, we haven't realized this project on or revitalised in terms of new investments, new railways or reconstructed railways that could meet the needs, and that may be the only railway in the Republic that really has a commercial basis for investing in it. So it is a railway that should be a link between transporting cargo from Luka Rijeka to the interior of Europe and the possibility of tying Luke Rijeka to rail transport towards Slovenia. We didn't make that decision or we didn't decide, I recently rode a passenger train after twenty years because at the time of my studies I used to drive often from Rijeka to Zagreb and vice versa. A business train that traffics twice a day between those two cities that drove 3.5 hours at the time. Now with the new train that we were driving in because the theme was connecting Rijeka and Zagreb, or new railways, we were now driving for over 4 hours. So only in one section of the stock is this train that's a modern, excellent train, a new train that has a speed seems to me more than 120, 140 km/h, it's only in a 20km section and some speeds that are more than 100 km/h, that means that the track is not good. So it's not a train problem, it's our train, our production, so obviously it can be done, but the rail is able to such that those speeds with an ordinary little passenger train actually don't have those cars anymore, but it's in one part, but it's a relatively small train means it doesn't have any weight. We're wondering what's going on with the goods? At the same meeting we were at were representatives of carriers who said that it is not even crucial that the speed of transport of goods between Rijeka and Zagreb, it is important that this railway can bear the amount of cargo to be carried. However, we obviously didn't quite solve it because these trains drive 20, 30 km/h towards Zagreb. So something that commercially should be a cost-effective project, I may be wrong, but the ministers didn't step hard enough into it. I understand that some projects take a long time, but it takes more than five years, I don't think so, and I think we're late. I don't know what's going on with this possibility that Rijeka will withdraw, or that railroad, or that Croatian railways, Infrastructure will withdraw those funds. Namely, we're late for projects according to what I have as information. Our entire railroad somewhere lags, if we could say that in years, our entire line of limitations is about fifty years behind the EU rails. So these are the data that should probably be some kind of alarm that the government is strategically deciding we're going to make these tracks in the next six years, the point is that this harassment with projects, the stories are going to be, well one day, so maybe, then the change of power and then propose priorities, and then it's going to be, now I'm looking at Mr. Orepic, it's going to be Ploče, it's going to be Zadar, it's going to be Rijeka in the meantime passing by Kopar. I mean, I don't mind the Slovenian successes in that part, but where are we? So in these political misunderstandings of ours, insufficient determination, insufficient speed, and yet you attach to it the fact that our politicians or people who make decisions in a political sense know and like to be involved in everything and be corrupt, then these projects that are so large are mostly standing and waiting for some new power, and a new story about what we're going to start over. In fact, this discussion of mine has appealed to you that in the following, you probably go choice because someone here has already talked about elections, there are elections to come up with something in that next period for these next elections, but that it really is a commitment in a year will be done what objectively can be done and this funding now de facto ends. It does not end in the sense of implementing certain projects or doing what is agreed, but ends in some way in terms of running new projects to make the next period a strategic decision to go to these railways. Let's get this over with. If we have managed to solve it with our own means of highways, if the economic situation is such that all indicators on our side are that we are going in the right direction, then let's make one quality decision for citizens in the sense that they can drive decently and have an interest in driving at all, and for the economy that we can create conditions for our economies to be competitive and to be partners with the EU economy. This way, with the condition of the Croatian railways, this is not the case today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183236	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the HNS on behalf of which time will be shared by the respected representative Makar and colleague Curaj. First respected representative of the Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183237	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So today, when we talk about this law, it is about full harmonisation with the EU acquis, or the 4th railway package. We have already agreed that this is primarily a matter of security, and security is certainly important to us and that this law should be supported. Here we have two pillars, a technical pillar and a steering or market pillar. This 4th package should complete the establishment of a single European railway space, and ultimately result in the strengthening of the competitiveness of rail transport in relation to other modes of transport. What is the competitiveness of rail transport in Europe and we have heard that in most EU Member States it is good. And there are members who are even in a worse situation than we are, when I accidentally spoke to a colleague from Romania and when she praised our railroad and told me what beautiful modern trains you have, I must say that I was proud, but I was also a little ashamed of whether she traveled through the rest of Europe or was only in Croatia. At the same time, this bill should provide even more security in the rail system and again here is the key word security. Several times, the minister is also my colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me mentioned long-term non-investment both in the infrastructure but also in wagons or machines especially in the case of freight. This security is important and when we talk about infrastructure, it has already been mentioned precisely for safety reasons, speeds are less. However, how competitive is this and how competitive can our railway be at such speeds, with such transport services? So the investment is necessary and it is certainly good that this investment in modernization and construction of the second colossium from Long Sela to Križevec goes further towards Koprivnica and the Hungarian border, and on this trail I mentioned that integrated transport which should be attached to it because I don't know when all the railways and all the railways will be built and reconstructed because at this speed, it was moving a little faster, but I don't know if that realization could end. This law provides for the EU Railway Agency to issue a single security certificate to railway undertakings carrying out their activities in the field of several EU Member States. So far, each railway carrier has had to issue a special certificate for each EU Member State. Here, there's a little administration, but there's evening, avoided, but we're also equating the quality of security. The infrastructure manager may only give access to railway infrastructure to those railway undertakings which have a valid security clearance. The law also states that the infrastructure manager must establish a safety management system which must also be demonstrated through the assurance of the safety issued by the Railway Safety Agency. So there's one thing that's going through the whole of the law that's going through security. The law also allows for greater security through the control of railways which, before placing on the market, need to be subject to a single approval by the EU Railway Agency, and there is also a obligation for the infrastructure manager to demonstrate the establishment of a management system, that is to say, to contribute to the Agency's belief in the safety of rail transport. The legislative proposal also provides for procedures in the case of train accidents. The law provides for provisions on an independent investigative body carrying out research on railway accidents and significant incidents. So, and here again one great emphasis is put on security. The law also provides for a system for the authorisation of machinery operators through the issue of certificates and permits to ensure compliance with the conditions relating to education, professional training, but also health conditions, as well as the conditions for executive workers in the railway system in all in order to restore safety primarily of passengers, goods and staff working on the railway system. I will not specifically refer to the current state of the Croatian railway again, but I will only mention it through a few sentences because it is so connected to this that we simply cannot separate ourselves from this topic which is safe, the law should be supported, it is good because it is a matter of security. Our railway infrastructure, here for 30 years we haven't had any investment, investments have started, at the very beginning we had problems just at the construction of this second track with which it is now being delayed, but hopefully it will be completed, not according to originally planned but in some case, let's call it a reasonable time. If we were all in some way happy when a new railway was finally built after 50 years, otherwise it was built but waited for the release for some circumstances for almost two years. So, the problems are here. There are also problems with the incompetence of our freight transport to the railways. Every day we see more and more foreign machines, cars on our railroads. According to my knowledge, the last investment in freight wagons or the purchase of new wagons was in 2008 when Đura Djakovic came out and was bought. There may be other information, but it's the one I managed to get to. It has already been stated, and with that I absolutely agree that the railway is a future for freight and passenger transport. In Europe, they've figured it out long before, but I'm glad that in the last few years we've understood it, too, in the Republic of Croatia, and that plans have been made and projects are being made, and that exactly big investment is being planned in the railways because rail transport is not polluting the environment, it's actually cheap, it's pleasant, and if it gets faster and faster, I think it's going to be increasingly useful. And already what I mentioned once, which is this integrated transport that I keep calling on because I come from rural areas and I am aware of the inability to travel to municipal centres, and I don't speak to county centres, especially older citizens from these areas, and it's precisely those who, with all that we're talking about, who are the most anxious and eager to finally start something, are the ones who grew up with the railroad and can't realize that they no longer have a train that will lead them to a city, to a centre, and not to say then how generally from their place to get to that, a railway station or train station, which already exists. So I believe we're going to invest in the railroad because it's the spine, it's the backbone of this integrated transport, and we're going to soon find a really good solution to this problem in rural areas. Thank you, and now I'm going to ask my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183238	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183239	I thank the esteemed vice president, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I will briefly, in fact today we are talking about establishing a system for issuing unique security and approval certificates for placing a vehicle on the market, meaning those that will be used by our infrastructure, the infrastructure that we are hearing today is actually the key to the problem of developing a further railway or rail transport, as well as the freight and passenger that I might even place a greater or greater emphasis on. Why? Because when we look at the development of the railway network we can compare it in fact, even through certain indices of development and indicators, in fact, the degree of economic activity and the development of certain countries, so we see that all countries that have extremely good rail infrastructures, or fast trains, so symbolically speaking, are basically all advanced and developed countries, almost without exception. Why? The logic of things, because it's an expensive thing, it needs a lot of money, to me this year of modernization that is ahead of us and the time that needs to be spent to make it sound a little amazing that we're going to need something in 10, 15 years. Wait for modern construction to be done today when miracles are done over a few years that, is it so complicated, demanding, difficult or possibly just expensive, so it can't be paid in some, in some fiscal year, two, three, but it has to be divided into 10, and then we actually come to this economic strength that those countries that can pay can probably do it faster. And why the railroad? So the railroad actually affects the development of a country in, above all, the economic sense, in a demographic sense, and it has a security aspect of why to invest in railways, when we talk about spring crossings and about the abovementioned overpass in Chepinska in Osijek and St. Leopold Bogdan Mandic where virtually all the traffic that goes through Osijek is one of the busiest roads in this city without underpasses, overpasses, although there is a security signalling, but there is also one of the safety aspects of course, and there is also one of the safety features of the city, and even the speed of such rail crossings can't go even at the maximum speed that isn't possible today, and when I'm talking about speed, those old locomotives that we all remember can develop up to 90, 100 km/h, unfortunately the railroad is such that it doesn't allow them to go faster than 60, and we're not talking about some unreal ideas that we have a railroad going over 200 km/h, that seems to be some space shuttle, but that's what it's working on, only that time it's crucial to be. Why? I said economical, but also demographic. Imagine the situation for me to reach Zagreb in an hour, hour and 15, imagine that the idea that we must no longer go to the EU before we enter the EU, the opening of the EU's labour market to many of our citizens, not only from Osijek, but also from Split and the entire Republic of Croatia came here in search of work and our future, and we have had a breakout since ever leaving rural areas, from the eastern southern parts of the Republic of Zagreb, and maybe that's not how it has to be, or maybe it doesn't have to be today. Imagine that you from the center of Osijek come to the center of Zagreb in an hour and 15 minutes, the price of the square property in Osijek is 10, in Zagreb is 20 or 1000, here is 1100, and in Zagreb is 2500 and 3000, and then it would be more favourable to live by me in the most beautiful place for, for the establishment and, and, and, growing up in Osijek by the family, is this demographic part and + that economic part, so all the taxes that are paid are then left for that man in Osijek and we are developing our rural areas, so all together. I think that's where we should look that actually strategically for us railways have to become new highways, on the highways we've made a big step, we've connected almost the entire Republic of Croatia and it's still working, but now it's time for railways, and I'm afraid some periods of 10, 20 years. that it will simply not be enough, that we will have much to catch up on and that we should really and strategically determine that whatever we can withdraw from the European Funds is welcome and commendable and there I commend and Minister and that all these efforts, that everything that can be financed from... funding but to strategically allocate billions for this because without it, without the budget of such in the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, we will not get to this part with all the benefits they bear, which is economic development and, of course, the demographic recovery of certain parts of the country. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I thank the HNS club, of course, will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183240	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Vedran Babic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183241	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the proposal for a safety and interoperability law of the railway system and I am not going to talk about what the Minister has technically introduced us to, we can call this law that it is in some way soft core because it is about harmonising with the acquis of the EU, more specifically with IV. With the railway package, I will already look back at all that is why this debate is not holding the current topics rather than more of the general one and this is the situation in the Croatian Railways today. As we can boast as a nation of excellent road infrastructure, unfortunately when we talk about rail infrastructure, better not to mention it and simply here, the thing is that after almost half a century the track is relatively short, meaning more than 12 kilometers on the route of St. Ivan Žabno-Gradac and I can point out that this is a project that was launched in two governments earlier, implemented now and that this is one good way how and all projects that are of national interest, well this is perhaps more than regional, should be completed. I'll just remind the same thing that's very important for all the projects and all the investments that we have, that's on the concrete of this railroad project... For half a century, local and regional self-government participated in the preparation itself, so that we as a state could report that Europe was financing, there was supposed to be some kind of documentation project, we had to do property-legal relations because we were no longer in a system where it was not a problem where unfortunately the resolution of property-legislative relations was believed and one of what I would say, slow down why many projects and do not realise at all what we would like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will say that even more than 20 years earlier, there was the idea that this railway was built and that many and municipalities from Bjelovar-Bilogian County co-financed the very preparation from their small budgets so that they had everything ready to apply and that this is, this way that this railway is made, can be a guideline to other units of local and regional self-government to, with their own initiative and efforts, because they can often be faster in making some decisions to initiate the same investments that are supposed to take place in their regions. As for passenger transport, I am here as well as my colleague Turina-Đurić said that she often travelled by train, I also as a student traveled by train from Daruvar to Zagreb and can only testify to the fact that in those more than 20 years on those banal things, which is, for example, a timetable, it seemed almost all that rail and passenger transport resented every passenger, that you have a situation when you arrive at the crossing to drive two trains, where they need passing and there are at least 10 places that can be passed, bringing you from Daruvar to Banovo Jarug and you wait an hour of precedent. To me, here they are, as a layman of such things simply unimaginable. Unbound and because 20 years ago the train from Kutina to the passenger train from Kutina to Zagreb drove these 70 km for an hour and a half, he is now driving them for 2 hours, add an hour waiting for the crossing and it is no matter if you teleport from Daruvar to Banovo Jarug, no one will go using passenger transport to the railway. Also, I welcome all the investments, it is not at all disputed that the SDP club will not support this law and all the positive laws that you will propose in terms of improving rail infrastructure, here you have said one thing besides a huge billion-euro investment in the river-Karlovac railway, which I think is and I am glad that this is one of the priorities for the development of the city of Rijeka and the entire surrounding area, all cities, municipalities, that simply Rijeka has returned its significance as a port decades ago. You mentioned it would be restored and stationed in Rijeka. Are there any thoughts about rebuilding the Zagreb station? I am here, here's a try, let anyone go to the Zagreb Main Station, so let's say at the Main Station in our country and let's try to imagine how a person's reduced mobility, how he can buy a ticket and get on a train himself. It's impossible, it's just impossible. As a country, we simply have to solve such things. It's amazing that there aren't even elevators, there's no moving stairs, there's just such things to keep quiet, and just the next law that can even be tied to this one, imagine a tourist, I mean, in these places we give a picture of ourselves being a society, whether we think about people who need help, simply in the 21st century like banal things, and that's the timetable, it's that people with reduced mobility can't access the main national station are just amazing and our shame is ours. I know that, I can be free and say maybe the biggest and most demanding in the entire government. But those who don't solve such things simply need to win by the nose. And mine, although it probably doesn't mean anything to you, my support in such things definitely needs to be done, and these are the things that give a picture of our country that have to be dealt with spotlessly. And simply, investment in that, these investments simply can't be measured in the billions that we're talking about right now. Also, here's what, let's say this situation can be linked to what's become our core business in the country, which is tourism. The increase of tourists automatically requires better infrastructure, and by improving transport infrastructure you simply attract more tourists. We are those tourists who, who serve only road infrastructure, are coming to private cars in some way very well satisfied, not in some way but definitely satisfied in that sense, but in other ways, when it comes to air transport, when it comes to railways or maritime transport, ferry ports, that's where we definitely fall. It should simply include the local community maximum, but respecting also, and the fact that the local community should also be helped because we know that more than 90% of all... to end up in the state, not in cities and counties, and to initiate and help that simple things and the flow of people, goods go in the direction of not happening when we have a new airport, and that a passenger who comes can only take a taxi or wait for a bus, I don't know, 15, 20 minutes or half an hour. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was at the airport mass, but I don't remember any of them if there wasn't at least a tram or a subway connecting the city center to its airport. Well, that's the story and the city of Zagreb, which has been here for the last couple of years, has not had a single capital investment or a capital project done, and these are the things to which a simple local or regional self-government should also, give some impulse to start and start cooperating and to give its contribution to investments that will definitely be less than what the state should give. I will no longer be in debt, and things are clear, support in all major investments or projects should have, but also certainly prepare project documentation, prepare property-legal relations, resolve property-legal relations that simply do not pass us the opportunity to report to some projects for essential investments, of national importance, so that we do not get past those deadlines to solve them, not at least at 10 years of age but at 15 or 20. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183242	Thank you. The next club representative is that party, excuse me. I turned the line because I feel wrong here, it is the HSS and the Democrats and will speak to the respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183243	Thank you very much, Vice-President of HS, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates. Here's a few words about the Law on the Security of Interoperability of the Railway System, on behalf of the HSS Club and the Democrats. The aim of this law is to achieve through a legislative framework a better system of traffic security management and a common rail system. The rail system is the blood flow of the European economy, as well as general mobility in Europe, both people and goods, and our goal is to transpose through this law into our legislative framework of the provision that we must, and with the aim of achieving better traffic security and increasing mobility for both citizens and goods in Croatia. However, as our rail system is, it is best seen from the EU Commission Report, which on page 171 writes on the state of the Member States and related to this issue where it states that the Republic of Croatia and the state of rail transport, or in the competitiveness of rail services, is significantly lagging behind the EU average. And what is even more important to point out is that it warns us that the late implementation of projects approved by the EU has been funded. If that were the case, the data we have from the official pages of HZ Infrastructure, which was planned in 2018, would be more than 688 million kuna, and only 250 million kuna was realised. And yet, according to the reports we have, 116 million kunas have been disputed because no works have been carried out according to the project and there is a dispute over it. Well, here I am, taking the opportunity to ask the minister if he has any information on where this came from, will this 116 million kuna have to come back or will this investment be justified and who is to blame and why are these late projects? If the EU funds are already approved, we heard, the other day from the Dean of the University of Zagreb, that the delay in the projects is partly wrong and the very procedure and the prejudiciality that our state enforcement bodies impose on our users of these funds, so probably both HZI and HZC and others who use these funds. Why don't we finally tell the truth, that we're partly guilty here, I mean the state bodies, let's, let's simplify the procedures, let's, in cooperation with these investors, make these projects go faster and better, and that these funds are withdrawn because we certainly have a common goal of increasing quality and rail transport, but also in other segments of Croatian society, we see that it gets stuck there. The minister announced investment in infrastructure, in railways over a billion euros, we certainly welcome this, but here we are warning of these problems that have already appeared on the projects so far that he is late in designing, that through public procurement these processes are often slowed down, and that these critical points and those professional complainants at these competitions are seen and try to eliminate the processes, which is exactly the role of the government and the resolution ministries to identify it and to better address it. I personally look forward to the announced over 500m euros in investment in project documentation and infrastructure in Slavonia on the Okucani-Vinkovci railway and here is the minister said the competition '21st is expected. It is a good announcement, but it is far from what we Slavons have because it seems that nothing has been invested in these railways for years and that trains have been driving us slower than 40 years ago, not to mention how much the flow of goods has been reduced by railway lines from Slavonia towards Zagreb because the decline in production in all industries, and part of it is that there was no quality transport from the Croatian railways and the possibility of transport to the same. So this is also an opportunity to ask and what is the fate of whether these projects announced and modernization of the railway from Nova Kapela via the Pleternica towards Požega and Velika because we must not forget the area, because there are still a lot of operators in Požega who are active and who want to have that railway connection with the railway towards Zagreb and Europe, and it would certainly cost their production if it could be achieved. I would also like to know if these projects also envisioned the construction of an industrial track that would bring together the industrial zone of the town of Nova Gradiška with the railway track, as well as the announced construction of a regional waste dump because it is certainly better to drive waste on the railway than on the roads, and this is certainly an opportunity. And I think that both the town of Nova Gradiška and Brod-Posavina County has launched an initiative to bring both the industrial zone and the regional dump to the Croatian railways and thus have the possibility of strengthening the economy of this region, as well as safer environmental protection through the transport of waste to both the regional waste dump and from Sisak-Moslavina and Požega County from Brod-Posavina to the regional waste disposal site. And it's also important when we talk about rerouting transport from road to rail which is certainly good. An important project was announced by JANAF where it would connect its checkpoint near Slavonski Brod near Donja Vrba with the railway, where the tanks that lead the oil products would load onto the wagons and drive further along the railways without burdening our road traffic and thus reduce the risk of environmental pollution. I know that documents have been prepared about this, I don't know what stage it is, and I'm sure it would be good to get into the projects of modernising the construction of railways and connecting them with the economy in the Republic of Croatia, especially in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. And in the context of that, I've already asked the minister in the replica, and I didn't get an answer. Đuro Đaković Spacial vehicles and other companies deserve greater and better attention from the good master's mara as announced when they are removed from the list of strategic companies to take care of them. Why? Since it is already investing so much in HZ Infrastructure and modernising Croatian Railways, it is not possible for Đuro Đakovic to be re-involved in the burning of both infrastructures and wagons because they have proven that they know and can also be on the European market. Several years ago they worked up to 300 wagons for Croatian railways, why now and this segment is not included in the project of modernization and conservation of production in Đura Đakovic because of these 300 million kunas signed yesterday, it is certain that part of it would be possible to return both sustainable production and through the construction of a car in Đura Đaković for Croatian railways for HZ Infrastructure for HZ Cargo etc. So I'd like to hear if that's what you're thinking about when you're looking for strategic partners. Why would we attract some partners on the side if we can already through our own investments and investments and through eu money to ensure production in Đura Djakovic Special Vehicles and other companies that know and can do so. I would also ask Mr. Minister a question here, a year ago, all the petrol stations that are filled with fuel locomotives are given in the concession of Crodux and are shown both by timid and HZ Travel and HZ Cargo that it will collect their production or business for more than 20 million kuna. Now, after about a year away, do you have any information on whether there was an increase in costs since now Crodux is a monopoly on all 16 gas stations where the fuel for locomotives is poured, or was it just the fear of these two companies, and that didn't happen. We think that in such decisions we must take care of all segments of the Croatian Railways, not just the step of one member of that group. And what is certainly important is to point out that Croatian railways in the context of transport must be more concerned about investment and arrangements for the crossings. This is a series of field associations, and our agricultural producers also warned that often it happens that the spring crossings are not quality-marked, that traffic accidents occur. And what is particularly worrying about is that investment and maintenance is obviously not good, is it happens that the moustache that exists is raised, and the train passes. We must no longer invest in the marking and safety of traffic, which is the aim of this law, and the fact that, in the opinion of the citizens, a little investment is achieved or slow is achieved by the degree of security that should be there, especially if we want to raise the speed of passenger trains from the current 40, 50 km/h to 160 or 220 km/h, then we must do so. And in the context of development and continental tourism, one of the segments that is very important is cyclotourism, I think that Croatian railways have not invested enough in modernising cars and trains that are ready to accept cyclists and their bicycles in their journey and we want to develop this segment of a specific type of tourism, one of the chances is for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem which are located in some cyclotourism routes, why not then and the Croatian railways prepare it and certainly that in both this segment and in the context of this law should be considered in what way to regulate it, if it is necessary and to install it in law but certainly modernise and leave the possibility of accepting bicycles and cyclists and in Croatian railways. I hope that through these discussions we will contribute to a quality law but, more importantly, that we have better rail traffic in the Republic of Croatia and safer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183244	Thank you very much. I see the esteemed representative Maras has asked for a break, probably, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183245	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to consult on this bill, it's about railways, it's about a very important infrastructure work that needs to be invested in. When we see, for example, the crisis that occurred in the world in China, when we have a threat to mass epidemic, the pandemic of the coronary virus, you can see how important it is that the railways are immediately interrupted and the railway connections with this city of Wuhan in China, but then the question is, how will we react in Croatia when we have a minister burdened with incredible affairs and we can turn Mrs. Even though your eyes, you support Mr. Kujundzic, who cannot explain the difference in the value of his property with what was shown in the property card. At the same time, Mr. Kujundzic shows the value of the property 100 000 euros and the bank estimates the same property by what is written in the media, 2.5 times as much. We now see a violent attack on a journalist in Dalmatia who was investigating real estate, which was also obviously not written according to what was meant to be. So how can we expect a high-quality and real reaction from this minister of burdened affairs regarding the possibility of such a crisis happening in Croatia and then being tied to the railway and being set up by him? So we can't expect the Croatian government to react in the right way, given that this kind of suspicion and corruption exist at the ministerial level in the government of the Republic of Croatia. I expect if we see that the minister has announced a press conference, that he will give answers, take responsibility and step down from his post. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183246	Thank you. Of course I'll approve the break, they're probably all members of your club outside, so Ett will join them to advise on the subject, but I'll see you at 11 o'clock and 28 o'clock. It's 11:19 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:29 AM]] There they are, speaking the esteemed representative Maria Puh. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183248	Thank you, Vice President. ... /Intruder Reiner: There were now.../ [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183249	No, no, it's Boris, I just saw them outside the door, so here they come, are you happy now? I said I saw them at the door going in. ... Here you go, colleague Puh. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183250	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are on the agenda of the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System. So we have in fact an implementation of the EU Directive aimed at the development of rail transport and their safety and, of course, that we, on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, support this law. This law that's on our agenda today, I would actually take advantage of, like all my colleagues before that, to look back on the very problem of rail transport, railways and actually what I see as a very nice future that is possible. On second thought, I've traveled around Europe quite a bit and I've used the opportunity to travel by train more or less every time, much rather than travel by plane, and I've always been fascinated and thrilled with trains, with the way I drive, and I believe that such a future someday awaits Croatia but not in such a fast period. All these past years, very much has been invested in road infrastructure, highways have been running, and I hope with this approval yesterday where we get new trains, where there are more than billions of kunas to rebuild the rolling stock, I believe that now the time has come on the railways and that we will work towards making our railways and our railways the same as in other EU countries. As far as security is concerned, we definitely have a lot of work to do to secure the crossings and the education of the people themselves. So many times it happens that they also provide crossings that have built-in and ramps and signals, that they simply don't start but a lot of train crossings in the Republic of Croatia and I have to mention this, and in my county, they're not provided in an appropriate way, there are only light signals and as often roads, come or at the right angle, it happens unfortunately that there is also an accident so definitely this law can serve us and that it further invests in ensuring all the crossing points in the Republic. My county, Krapina-Zagorska County, I would say that it is very connected to the railway and very connected to rail transport and all these investments that are currently in Krapina-Zagorje County, means the current electrification of the railway line to Zabok and I am happy to say that we are at a session of the government held in Krapina on December 6th, that decisions have been made that I have advocated to continue that railway electrification towards Krapina continue towards the Slovenian border and also to be made towards Kumrovec, so-called. The Sutlan railway is revitalising, and this is really something we welcome, and I believe that it will contribute even more to the development of the Krapina-Zagorje County itself and a very, very much can contribute to the development of tourism, other than this development, the construction of new railways, the shortening of driving times, for example. to Zagreb, in Krapina-Zagorje County, a lot of people work in Zagreb or around Zagreb. Unfortunately for the moment, even as the railways are being renovated and refurbished and up to future electrification, very many people who would actually like to use the railroad do not use the rails but come by cars, automatically close the traffic in Zagreb and if they had a railway that would be as fast as I hope to have it soon, much would be solved. From the crowds in the cities, people could get to work more peacefully and happily, and that would take care of environmental protection because the railroad is definitely one of the cleanest forms of transport. What I would particularly mention and what I have to look at and I've already talked about and I'm going to talk a lot more, the entire Krapina-Zagorje County, I would say and actually the entire northwestern part of Croatia and the ring around the city of Zagreb, would get a lot to finally get the Integrated Transport Act and start with integrated transport. According to my knowledge, the Working Party for the Construction of the Integrated Transport Act was formed if I wasn't mistaken, even before last year, somewhere in the 11th month. and from there, I am not sure whether there are any movements or not, so I would ask the representatives of the ministry to really work on this law, that as soon as we get there and that we allow people to come to the assembly centres with one card, so now I am a cartoonist from the municipality of Novi Golubovec will come by train to Začretje, sit on the train and be very fast in Zagreb. Under number one, it will be a cheaper variant when one card will be bought, it will be much better for the environment itself, there will be much less cars, and there will be a simple mobility that is in Krapina-Zagorje County, unfortunately quite limited in some parts of the county, I think it would be much more improved because in some ways the railway and rail is one skeleton of our county that can help. What I've noticed is that HZ is doing a lot of work, and I'm saying that it's doing more and more contract deals with county and local self-government units to co-finance children's train tickets, students to the place of study, and I think it's a very, very good example of how to start teaching children from small feet to train, so that their train becomes something normal, so over 10 years when we're going to have a much more modern railroad and when they're going to travel faster, they're actually not going to think about getting in the car first, because they're driving away from being the most logical variant of sitting on the train and coming to their destination. Here she would also appeal to her Krapina-Zagorje County if I wasn't wrong, and that contract was not yet signed so that students could be co-financed until the end so that they could travel free of charge to their place of study, so I hope that it will happen eventually. Yesterday's news about the permission to move into the purchase of new trains and worth over a billion kuna is really I think one very good news and a lot will help the quality of transport and the quality of driving. I, for my part, travel quite a lot with the train and come to work a large part of the time with the train and simply this Zagreb ring is really overworked. In the morning, many times you regret to stand at the station and simply cannot get on the train because there is not enough room or standing on the train for you to travel on. So I believe that these new trains that are going to come will also go towards dissipating it and that it will be more comfortable to travel by train and that it will be possible, that at some station here people simply can't get on the train because there's no room. I certainly believe that one big future is the railway, and I hope that all the resources available from the European Funds that will be available to us will be spent on modernising railways, on safety, so that accidents at railway crossings do not occur, and that we simply return or build up such a railway glow as it is in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183251	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates that we've had a lot of. The first will be spoken by a respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183252	Thank you very much, Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues when we talk about the Law on the Security and Interoperability of the Railway System and the adoption of certain directives proposed by European or adopted by the EU or its bodies, of course we need to watch first where it is rail transport and the system in the Republic of Croatia and what is the idea of rail transport in the future in the EU. So what I am sure is that in the next 10, 20 years in the EU there will be standards, something that we will also adopt as a directive in the Republic of Croatia is that, because of the desire to reduce CO2 emissions, that is to say, Europe becomes the green continent that we all want here together, and already some countries are going in that direction to ban and limit air transport lines to shorter relations of 400,500 km. So on this side, Europe is thinking in a way that is more and more invested in the railway and that compensates me for an ecologically problematic transport, which is an air transport because it is the most polluting transport I would say means emissions, emissions and creates environmental problems in the EU, and that at some point we will move on to this, for example to plastically explain that between Zagreb and Split we will have to have a rail line because simply more planes will not be able to fly either Zagreb and Dubrovnik. So on this side, Croatia must prepare for rail transport that will allow citizens faster and simpler, more comfortable connections than it is now. We can't think about ecology, we can't think about Croatia having to have and give citizens an alternative in such transport if our trains drive on average slower than they did in the '90s or '90s. So we must have the opportunity to connect Zagreb and Split, for example, to a line that will cross that distance in less than or 2 hours if we want to and if we want to adapt to the trends that are in the EU. Unfortunately, we are still far away, and I think that simply investment in this area is not enough, more is invested which is not bad, and should be invested in railways that are tied from our port to Hungary and still towards the EU, and I welcome these investments that are going towards the Križevci, Koprivnica continues towards the Botov border crossing, but we must also develop passenger lines, and that is, if we are looking at the traffic of passengers, surely the most interesting lines that are heading towards Dalmatia. Of course Rijeka is connected there and should be connected in a way to develop this alternative direction that goes down towards Rijeka, but Croatia unfortunately invests very little. He's investing very little, and according to Slavonia, who has a real paradox. So today's trip to Vinkovac lasts longer than it did in the '90s, it's something that certainly cannot be welcomed and what should be thought about in the future. And if we want to have safe and operational and used rail transport, the investments must be oriented in this direction after we have circled the road infrastructure that is in Croatia at an enviable level, even saying a lot more than the financial Croatia as a country can handle, means we have road infrastructure especially when we talk about highways that are at the level of a lot richer countries, when you see that in Germany people are driving even on highways built in the middle of the last century, then you see that Croatia has made a step and invested a lot, now that we make this bridge on Peljesac, that story with the integration of Croatia round but at this point I think that we should be a priority and that we should focus on investment in rail transport because it is something which, by force, by decision of the EU, green Europe, green plan for Europe, will be imposed in the near term. And what we talked about 10 years ago or, not 10 years ago, but 20 years ago that we want to connect Zagreb and Split to one quality highway and realize a certain step, believe me, in 5 years we will be talking about a track that has to cross that distance in two hours because we see a whole series of here is completely abandoning, say, in Italy a plane transport between Milan and Rome because a railway that simply competes not only at the price, not only at the speed and security, but I would say with all possible aspects of it and so will be in the future at many destinations in Europe. And here I would encourage all those who have the ability to decide at this point the government, to focus in that direction. What we have a local problem and what is also very important with these connections because of the large number of people who would use them and the passengers who would use them, we are not developing local railway infrastructure and when we see a situation that has started with some plans but unfortunately stopped prematurely, the railway traffic that would connect to the city of Zagreb and the surrounding county. So, unfortunately, we don't have a solution here that we should, not invest in the Zagreb Railway Station, in that network of local railways, for example, we have an incredible project that I think is totally unnecessary and we're doing a railway project to the city of Zagreb, instead of making a line that would join the railway line that goes towards Sisak and we're building a few more stations of the suburban railway, we have a very effective link with the city center of the airport in Velika Gorica, so there's no development, no coordination between the state and the city and there's no development of the city in the way that it should and as far as traffic itself is concerned. When we talk about railroads in the city itself, it's amazing that we still don't solve the problems we have in the eastern part of the city, meaning from Sesveto to Gl. The station where there are several critical crossings, so one is in Trnava, in Lower Dubrava where the state would have to find a solution with the city that our fellow citizens must be able to use that road in one more efficient way than every 15, 20 minutes because of the line that goes with Gl. Station, track closes and then people in columns wait half an hour for that problem to be solved. And not only in Trnava, but at a few other locations in the city of Zagreb, I especially say in the eastern part of the city where this step must simply be made and the citizens are justifiably rebelling. So if we are talking about the operationality of the railway system, if we are talking about safety and the use of the railway system, it is impossible not to solve this problem locally, not what a colleague in Zagorje said but if we do not solve it where there are the largest number of people, the largest number of passengers potential, and that is the city of Zagreb, we will not solve anything. So we have an air figure that's not connected in an adequate way and it could be, we have parts of the city that are now used by the suburban railway, but that's what I would say, maybe just the tip of the ice dream that people would use and not use cars if it were more efficient, if those lines worked out, if you had regionally solved with Zagor, Zagreb County, northern Croatia, Sisak, Sisak County, then there would be a large amount of people on me to say, at a local level, meaning at a regional level, inter-zonal level, call it whatever you want, using that transport but now they don't use what the state and the city are developing in a way that we should develop, so we have very traffic routes that are unfortunately much more unacceptable and more transportable and environmentally, so if you want to end up and spend more time of the citizens and the city of Zagreb and the surrounding districts than what we should develop in the city rail quality. So there are a lot of projects that we could develop together, which unfortunately we haven't touched yet, and I've listed only two by me urgently and critically, and that's also the development of local suburban railways, but also these lines that would develop between our cities, which would compensate for maybe in the future and air transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183253	Thank you. We've got two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Habek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183254	Comrade Maras, here's when you talked about local problems and some kind of train crossings, I'd like to take this opportunity, this minute to remind the ministry gentlemen, namely we in Varazdin have a huge problem, it's about so-called. The home ramp, it's a ramp that's closed and I'll read it to you now, I've got information from people who work in railways how much the ramp is closed daily. depends on the number of trains and other details with that impact period between 7 and 19 hours closed about 75 times. If we take some time average down and up from 4 minutes, it turns out that the ramp is closed 7 to 10 hours a day in 24 hours, so that doesn't count train failures and anything else that significantly prolongs constipation. I've already written to the Ministry a memo, sent a memo to get this test done, did so by both my colleagues and the Striker and everyone from the Varazdin County, the MPs and the others, and the Mayor of Varazdin and here I appeal to you to answer me or you don't need to answer me, but try, try to solve this problem, this is an extremely big problem, or this is the biggest problem. [[Intruder: Thank you]] The problem of traffic... [[Intruder: Thank you]] in Varazdin. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you fellow Habek]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183255	I don't know what my colleague Maras will answer because you haven't asked anything, but he's probably gonna say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183256	Well, I picked up this tile, and...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183257	No, no, everything's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183258	...now, I will satisfy your interest, and you will hear what I'm about to say, this what my colleague Habek said is just one in a series of spring crossings, and I'm asking here again, and I'm asking that, in this case, I may be officially answering what and what kind of solution the state offers in cooperation with the city for the Trnava railway crossing, so it's a spring crossing point in the City of Zagreb, we all know about which supply crossing is being done, a hundred thousand of our citizens in the City of Zagreb have huge problems due to the suspension of the road crossing on the crossing of trains, so I'm curious to know why it's impossible in 20 years. Find a quality solution, and people complain there. At this point, we have petitions, 3-4000 locals or the people of Lower Dubrava and Trnava. who are looking for this solution and we want to hear what the ministry has to say about it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183259	Thank you, the esteemed Puh has the same replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183260	Dear colleague, here you have pointed out that more attention should be taken to the number of inhabitants, so in improving the railway I would only mention here, I was promoted in the debate, so this railway, the Zagorje railway and the extension to the western part of the town of Zagreb is actually the most profitable railway in the Croatian railways and the largest number of passengers passes through that railway. We definitely need to work to improve the railways, and once again I mention the solution to very many of our problems is integrated transport and here is another appeal to the ministry for the task force to be launched in terms of integrated transport and to allow citizens to come to Zagreb in a simpler and easier way, as well as in other large areas to other cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183261	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183262	Thank you very much, all the railways, local railways or suburban railways when we talk about the City of Zagreb would be extremely profitable, so this Zagorska you're talking about, but it would be profitable and the railway that would go from Sisak and Velika Gorica if we had a quality link and a railroad from Samobor through the Council Sunday towards Zagreb would also have great rentability, unfortunately in that part of the project exists, but it is not realised, by my deep conviction because of the local interest or one company that has a monopoly on the transportation of passengers from that part of Zagreb County to the City of Zagreb, means suburban transport and rail transport is one of the more profitable investments that could not only be invested by the state, but also by private investors if there was an interest and if at the end the state and the city could be agreed in which way it would be realised, while there were no concepts. Until there's no strategy, unfortunately there won't be [[Intruder: Thank you]] no agreement, no possibility to invest in this. [[Employee: The next individual debate will be respected MPs...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183263	... Anke Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183264	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate, so in our first reading of the proposal for the Law on the Security and Interoperability of the Railway System, it is not about the new law, so we are 2013. The law, in 2015, was two additions and 2017 was the following supplement, and now we have a law that is actually in line with EU directives and that corresponds to the time in which, therefore, what was certainly not worth 2020, and in this sense very little and has so far debated very much about this law, this law opens a much wider discussion, the debate on rail transport in the context of all of this and we must say that this law is correct, that it fits the time, that it is all the things that should be incorporated, but I have to say one other thing, so we already have something, for some time now, that together with the law we have a series of regulations, so this is not an exception, a series of rules that need to be passed, and then you are discussing in the House of Law, and all those rules that regulate, of course those who are interested can participate in public debate and do something, but you have no contact. So, the law that was adopted on the basis of it is 19 regulations at this time, and this law will be added, so all these rules will remain in force, you gave the provision that they should be in 5.g. bring in new ones and bring in some extra rules, so that's what some other things are up to. It always seems to me that maybe that deadline is 5 years, the question is, in 5 years. You'll be changing the law twice again, so it's a general question of this relationship, but what I'm asking myself, and maybe to all of us, it seems to me that we're prone to an awful lot of these regulations, some of you have to because you can't define everything, and the question has given us everything we need, this is the right time to think about it a little bit, and let's see, we have a terrible lot of laws, but behind that a lot, a lot of sublegal acts, and it's hard to follow. So, this law, if someone works by it, can't just work on it, but it has to look at all these other regulations, maybe it's basically a matter of legislation, a system to see a little bit of how it's regulated differently because, so someone who's going to work under this law is going to have a bunch of everything they need to know and have to follow and a question about who's following it. I will, of course, refer to the subject of railways as everyone before me referred to, and that is the kind of call you can hardly resist. In 1892, so I did not make any mistake, and I was not confused, Mr Milan Lenuzzi was the head of the city of Zagreb Construction Office, according to Lenuzi's horseback and everything else, that I was not bothering, and then there was a heated discussion where he very revolutionizedly left that session of the city's headship and said that he was leaving the coalition as usual, there were always some coalitions, not only today, because they couldn't agree whether the railway line going through Zagreb and the main station, whether it would descend under the ground because it was already realised that this railway track was a problem for the development of the city or would rise to the viaducts. We are in 2020 and I think that this debate would still be discussed on any professional body. What exactly am I trying to say about the railroads? Railways are in terms of spatial planning of the project in space, but on the other hand the railways offer safety and should offer traffic safety, traffic speed, they can solve a number of other things and I am one of those who is very prone to and thus debate and discuss the importance of rail transport. So we are under the lights of Davos where the main topic was climate change, climate change adaptation, the fight of the climate crisis. When you look at the Green Deal that is talking about a trillion euros that will be available to the second indent, your first indent is a problem of waste, waste management in terms of space and environment protection, the second indent is traffic. So traffic is one of the great and important pollutants that is extremely important and significant by having cities that have already banned car traffic in the city center, banned diesel and everything else and there is the advantage of the railway. So, when it comes to railways, you have to plan it well, you have to build it and trains must go to it that are from the point of view of combating climate change and, in that sense, absolutely acceptable. And now we come to where Croatia's findings are. We have these railroads that were made in another time, not to mention others because I already mentioned Lenuzi so not to mention Hungarians, we have a country that is so unusually shaped, so we have this horizontal and that vertical. I am absolutely sure of the following, the development of the railway network should be the top priorities of this government, of some other government and of some third government, it must be a strategic commitment to Croatia's development for the simple reason what if we don't do the cascade. Other countries are doing this, other countries have recognized that in terms of traffic you are even faster than in some cases aircraft or you have to come sooner and then it depends on some weather conditions, rail traffic works. Trains are safe, fast and in terms of someone who performs business of some kind where more, you can work in Zagreb, and I don't know in Bologna have an office and once a week go to Bologna and you from Zagreb to Bologna equally work on your computer and everything else So, different occupations, different style of life, is different working and there is a great advantage of railways. I am sure that from this envelope, which will be available by 2027, there will be great resources, there will be those who will be ready, there will be those who will have strategies, there will be those who will have projects and there is a priority. Now we come to the part where politics has its role and importance. Everyone likes the projects you can see in one term, so in a four-year term you start a project and you can cut some tapes at the end of the term, this is the kind of projects you can't see, which in one term you have to make a strategy, decisions, projects, in the second term you do, and in that third term you actually see the real effect of that, but we need to know that. We need to know that such decisions are strategic decisions for the development of the country, for the development of the state, and that's one of them. Of course, the good development of the railway will allow people to really not know how to live in Koprivnica, work in Ljubljana, once a week there is a good railway connection in Ljubljana, knows that in two hours they will be back. It's a new way of life, it's some new stuff. The countries that will have the privilege of recognising it in time, that in time they will be ahead of everything else. And I can really see the possibility and that big niche for Croatia. Of course, in a particular section, rail transport can also be used to solve suburban transport, solve and part of public transport in certain cities, but it is easy to develop, take care, work strategies, work projects, be prepared. There's a catchphrase for you, says I never won the lottery. So how'd you pay for the lucky one? So I didn't pay for the lucky one. So how are you gonna win the lottery if they didn't pay the ticket? It is equally related and with the withdrawal of funds from European funds, we must be ready, we must be prepared and applied at the same time where it is. Therefore, once again, this law is a very correct law and in this sense we have it and I really have that doubt about all these rules because, while we pass the rules of law two or three more times, we need to change the legislation really reasonable, but in the context of adapting to climate change in the context of new interests in the context of railway development, the railway should be one of the key priorities of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183265	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183266	Dear colleague Taritash so I'll take this opportunity since I haven't been able to say everything in the first line about the House ramp and the problem of the crossroad in Varazdin. Namely, where's the biggest problem? The biggest problem is that you have a situation of passing 3 trains, 3 trains passing in 15 minutes and that 15 minutes is the closed rail crossing. Instead of changing it in a way that when one train passes, it opens up, so a traffic light is released, so people pass, etc. So we've got 24 hours, 7 to 10 hours of the Minister's ramp closed. So in one day, it's official data, 7 to 10 hours the ramp is closed in the city of Varazdin. And I'm asking you, is that normal? It's not normal for me to have a situation like this these days. Here's another appeal, and I sent a memo to the ministry, and my colleague, Strychk, has worked it out, and I'm asking you to meet me, to talk, to call the parliamentary representatives, to call the leadership of the city of Varazdin, to talk, to try to find a solution because this is the biggest traffic problem in the city of Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183267	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183268	Thank you very much. So here is a specific problem that my colleague points to, I really don't imagine, and I always say that I'm not this assembly representative of general practice that I understand in all nor doubt that any, that there are any solutions that you can get out of your sleeve, the one where Dr Rukavina, so he has all the solutions, really and that, I also said in the debate that the railroad is an obstacle to the development of space. That's right. Especially when a single urban tissue develops, you have to close it for safety, you're very careful because every time something happens in the sense of an accident, people are always killed, so there's no train crash and anyone else knows how it goes and there's probably going to be a project of denivelation of the railway. Lifting up, I have to admit that as someone who imagines being understood in spatial planning, I don't see any other way than the one that is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183269	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183270	Thank you very much. A colleague of Anka Mrak Taritas in your debate had one example of travel between major cities in the EU, where it is completely abandoned or not completely abandoned, but a large part of it is leaving the air transport, in Croatia it still seems like a utopia or something that we will wait for for decades, but it is very real that in some period of 10-15 years in this Croatian Parliament, some other representatives will discuss EU directives and ban air transport between cities less than a few hundred kilometers away, which is between Zagreb and Split, Rijeka or Dubrovnik. So it is surprising that Croatia is not developing that kind of passenger transport or that our trains will drive for 7-8 hours to Split for years instead of being 2 or 3 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183271	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183272	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras I am that such a directive will come before we all expect it together. So in terms of climate change, you plane, the plane will not change in terms of fuels that are not exactly drastic, so that many EU countries will, regardless of the small-distance travel directive, but it will also be a way of life for you. So I see it from my son says I prefer to travel by train anywhere out there because while I'm on the train I still work, so I don't have a waste of any time. Therefore, the railway should always be considered in terms of adaptation to climate change or in terms of eco-acceptable, in terms of rapid availability, in terms of security and in terms of the fact that it really provides you with great opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183273	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183274	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the debate is about railways and I would like to point out one thought, which is that in 15 years from 2000 to 2015 12.64 billion kunas of state guarantees are meant to be loans they have received. How much is given in a total of 29 years since the existence of Croatian railways, we can only guess. At the same time, Croatian railways receive support each year on average over 700 million kuna. The question that is being asked is whether billions have been spent, yes, it's about tens of billions, whether they've been given the same in billions of subsidies, are, but what we're interested in is the final result. I found a contemporary article on Telegram that talked about the speed of railways to go from Osijek to Zagreb Intercity train Croatian Railways today travels for 4 hours and 27 minutes. It was 2017, watch the thought, today 2019. I went to watch the timetable says the fastest train travels in 4 hours and 46 minutes. So, compared to two years ago, the trip went up 19 minutes ago. However, in 2011, the road lasted on the same 4 hours and 19 minutes share. So we got bigger or faster in 2011 than today, but we traveled even faster in 1990, then, from Osijek to Zagreb, it arrived for today unimaginable 3 hours and 20 minutes. So, '90s. We traveled for 3 hours and 20 minutes, and in 2019 we travel for 4 hours and 46 minutes. What does that tell you? So it's about how time goes, year after year, the road takes longer and longer. I will give you another example, it is about the railway or the route Zagreb-Vinkovci. 1990s, or 91st, then from Vinkovac to Zagreb could arrive in 2 hours and 28 minutes as a rule, but the fastest train was the business train Matoš, which then traveled only 2 hours and 11 minutes. So the fastest train in 1991 drove for two hours and 11 minutes. The question to ask is how long it takes from Vinkovac to Zagreb today. Now, today it takes three hours and 28 minutes, which means about an hour and 15 minutes longer. At the same time, 2017 took 3 hours and 20 minutes. So two years ago, the train traveled eight minutes shorter, and in 2011 the train traveled on the same route for 3 hours and 11 minutes, which means 9 minutes shorter. So, year by year, it means that the amount of loans given, i.e. state guarantees, as the amount of state subsidies increases, we have a situation where the train ride takes longer and longer, and what's the problem with that? Well, the problem is that as it takes longer and longer to drive by train, parallel HZ increases passenger transport prices and ultimately we find ourselves in a situation where the number of passengers in HZ falls year after year. But this government, as we see from the timetable, has done absolutely nothing to change that. On the contrary, trends remain negative. I'd also like to point to another thought. Very often when I'm on a train, I dare even say I'm in a situation where I'm not actually on a train, but on a bus. If I remember correctly, it was maybe only a month ago, I traveled by train from Zagreb to, from Zagreb to Karlovac. What happened, instead of riding the train, we drove the bus. However, not only did we ride the bus, but that bus was standing at every train station on the way to Karlovac, which means that he was always getting off and on the highway, driving these slow roads. In the end, this train ride that was supposed to be, I say, the fastest means of transport pulled off and lasted too long. And what I'm saying is, precisely because this ride takes too long and we don't really know, or even this timetable that exists with these huge delays, that is, with these long journeys, we can't even rely on it because often trains just don't drive, tracks aren't ready, we're being transported at the end by buses. I ask if it's HZ-owned buses or HZ-rented by someone, I don't know, but what I do know is that because of all this, the number of passengers is falling and simply citizens are unhappy with the state of the railroad. At the same time in these 30 years where trains are driving slower and slower, the world trend is, or, I dare say, the global trend is that trains are driving faster and faster. 160 km/h, e.g. I'll never forget when I took the car from Hannover to Munich, what happened? I'm driving a car, I don't know, 130 an hour, we've got a train passing by, the train was even faster than our car. Which means in translation, the fastest train ride in Germany. That's why people drive a train in Germany. And that's why we in Croatia have a decline in the number of passengers, without talking at all about those railroads that are on these magnetic pedestals where they reach record speeds that, type 300 per hour, we won't see in Croatia God knows when. The question with this system will we ever see. And then we get to that key thought, and that thought is next. She was said by Albert Einstein. He said that the definition of stupidity is repeating the same things, i.e. the same actions, and with the expectation of a second result. What we have is that we have the same policy that's been going on for the last 29 years, regardless of whether they were HDZ or SDP governments in front of the railways, and all these policies expect some different results. Well, after all these years I can say, yes, the results are visible. The results are obvious. Trains are driving slower and slower, and we all see it here. However, the question arises why voters in the election support the policy. When I saw that in the presidential elections HDZ and SDP received about a million votes and one and the other, I wondered if it was possible for the Croatian people to be so blind, is it possible for the Croatian people to continue to decide between the two parties, i.e. the two policies that lead us, ha, in the case of railways to lead us from year to year, instead of driving faster and faster and faster, we drive slower and slower. And the answer is yes, the Croatian people really chose it and I got a relatively small number of votes and I want to wish the Croatian people happiness because they will need happiness with the policy they chose and where that happiness he chose for himself with HDZ and SDP will take him away, I don't know. I personally am not optimistic about the current situation, however, what gives me hope are new generations. The new generations that will question this system, the new generations that will ask the question why or how these tens of billions have been spent and what was their final result, but what's most terrible no one has answered, it's only normal for you to have billions leak, and that the total result is not zero but minus, you have minus people this is a great shame for the people of the Croatian railways, for the politicians who have led that policy all these years, but also for the voters who support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183275	Thank you, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Curray, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183276	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Pernar, you mentioned the trip from Osijek to Zagreb, the last time I took the train on a business trip 10 years ago, the em would have been a tilt train moving in 5.25 from Osijek, arrived, arriving at 8.38 at Zagreb's station. And we actually watch these times as faster vehicles in the past, which is nothing weird than normal and expected, turns out to be faster travels for us in the past than the future is coming to us. In fact, we don't need tilt trains with current infrastructure, we don't need a modernization of locomotives because simply the infrastructure, which we're talking about here today is a point of the agenda, can't handle high speeds. The existing ones, those old locomotives go over 100 an hour, but they can't drive that much, and there's actually this, the main issue, and with this part we're planning a little bit of infrastructure to modernise as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183277	Thank you, Your Honor, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183278	Dear Representative Curaj, you're telling me we actually have enough fast locomotives or we've had them before, but you just say they can't drive on these tracks, so here's the question, why aren't the rails up-to-date? What happened to, by my estimate, the minimum 30 billion kunas given to Croatian railways? Where's that money? Where's that money people? So we can't go on a normal train from Zagreb to Karlovac, let alone to Osijek, something wrong is going on and the question is why the government doesn't see the problem in the end and why voters just go to elections indifferently and support the policy that is ultimately turned against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183279	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183280	I thank the esteemed president, so colleague Pernar, here I am, perhaps a little bit of a joke, there's some theory that the globe has increased, and that's why the length of train travel is increasing, the second theory is that we have a lot of these Chinese tourists and then when you tell Chinese tourists that from Osijek to Zagreb they travel for 4 hours then they wonder, Jesus Christ, what kind of a big country is that, here's a little joke. I opened the route of Madrid Barcelona, here's a chance to ride that train for 3 hours and 20 minutes 620 km with all stops on all stations, what to say, in... The EU has not been that far from it, but unfortunately on that train that goes up to 308 km/h it is more peaceful to sit than when I travel from Kutina to Zagreb and drive 60 km/h. Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183281	Dear Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183282	Dear Representative Lenart, so I remember all the fairy tales when we were entering the EU, I believe that when people heard that Europe was coming to the Republic of Croatia, they might have thought that those trains would come quickly to the Republic of Croatia or the railways would speed up, but as you can see from the entry into the EU, not only was the production of milk halved, the wine, not only that the big shipbuilding was completely gone, but also for example the railways, you can see how far we've come, we've got there now to drive even longer than before and there's no one interested and I can't understand how simply people are blind next to healthy eyes and still don't question the whole of this system and its honesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183283	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183284	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague, the Croatian people are not blind, it is definitely, choosing who they think is best at the time, but I would say neither the Croatian people are blind, nor the Croatian railways are all bad, I know that there are bad examples in the Republic of Croatia where this railway is where, when the road takes place from Zagreb to Split 8 and 9 hours that it is not satisfactory, but I have a positive example, I live in Zagreb County, in Brdovec municipality i.e. near the Slovenian border and at the beginning of the suburban railway Savski Marof – Dugo Selo. I have to say that certainly the vast majority of my fellow citizens, but also the wider one drives that suburban railway which is good, often drives, good trains, relatively fast, would like to be faster, between every 20 to half an hour, 20 minutes to half an hour drive by a suburban railway, it's like a tram and it's for every praise, but I'm not saying that to praise the minister and his associates than to encourage them to be even better, the railroad in one part is good, it can be better and it's an incentive to do even more work and to make even more citizens more satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183285	Dear Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183286	And here's Mr. Prelec you say the Croatian people aren't stupid, but again Einstein says the following, those who repeat the same actions, the same things with the expectation of different results of Einstein saying that's the definition of nonsense, now the question is whether the Republic of Croatia can go forward with this monetary system, with this kind of transport system, so with the roads that are probably the most expensive in Europe my people, so we in the Republic have at the price from Zagreb to Dubrovnik to travel backwards, so it's cheaper for you to take in Switzerland an annual vignette for all highways, so that's the reality, you rob people on highways systematically, and all those people who vote for that policy are smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183287	The next individual debate is that respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183288	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, the topic is I mean very extensive about and inexhaustible about talking about rail traffic, and as far as the agenda itself is concerned, it's not at all controversial, so first of all, what's going on towards raising security is generally accepted and I don't think there's going to be a dispute. What I want to complement more of my debate from the club and now we have heard some time of movement or the duration of travel of different relationships is that we have entered into a vicious circle and we are already spinning in it for a long, long, long time, and that is when we talk about passenger traffic, the number of passengers falls, especially as the time of travel falls. Which is nothing weird. Ten years ago, 15 years in an hour, an hour and a half ago, you could have been on a train so it was cheaper, more interesting, and then you decided to spend that money on that kind of travel. Today there are fewer passengers, costs are higher mainly because maintenance costs are always higher as of course the duration of certain and infrastructures and older locomotives themselves means more costs. And for safety, we need to drive all the slower so we don't have any unfavorable events as far as passenger safety is concerned. And how do you avoid it? So every year we have to subsidize more for less passengers. That's why I say the vicious circle. If something were to work again, the question is, in what way, if this investment resulted in an increase in the number of passengers, only at the end or at the end. The first 30% of the railroads that would modernize me would slightly increase the time, but still could not result in some greater interest of passengers for rail transport that I mentioned also has an economic dimension, particularly the economic dimension, and even demographically when we connect from a remote location to the job market, so someone from Osijek could work in Zagreb, spend their money and pay taxes in Osijek and stay there or in Slavonia we generally speak there, and so we also speak in Dalmatia, and thus we would not have a population drain that we had for many years and years before the EU. And then of course, we're talking about security, and then I wonder why we were buying slope trains? It was 20 years ago if I wasn't wrong, revolution, modernisation, we bought tilt trains that were after 10 years, if I'm looking have no purpose and function because they can't even develop those speeds that were then a comparative advantage over the existing infrastructure. Because I remember that lean train from Osijek to Zagreb that doesn't drive anymore. Why? Because that old locomotive can't develop its maximum speed of 90, 100 km an hour, because the track won't allow it, and as a tilt, they went much faster. And then someone decided then let's go modernise ourselves, and didn't make a basic prerequisite. So there are some mistakes that are obviously following us and what is very important is that I and I really believe that railways need and there must be new highways in symbolic meaning what highways meant to us to develop tourism at sea, to connect Croatia, etc. That what the ministry does well is to use maximum of all the European funds available, to invest everything in Europeans in the railway corridor's end line, but that's not good because we can't and we don't have to wait 10, 20 years for something that was already standard 20 years ago. That's why it's crucial to invest that something happens in the next five years, and that's why we're talking about billions and now we need to say what the priority is. Where we want, what we want. It's nice to talk to you, it's nice to say we all want a fast railroad going somewhere else 300 an hour, when you have to sit down and say it costs 100 billion, how, in what way, that's the physiology. Whether it will guarantee us the number of passengers, whether it will be self-sustainable, and then that's where we fall every time on the first obstacle. We can't find a model that will guarantee that in those five years if we invest that much money, not in 30, but in 5, we'll get it back. And then we come to the other part of the story, which is that we have to make all the preconditions in both the railway infrastructure and the development of rail transport, which is to raise the standards of our citizens and the economy especially for connecting the most distant parts of Croatia, i.e., specifically Slavonia with Zagreb. Because you can be sure that everyone will sit down, calculate that it is simpler, even cheaper, so that it is not cheaper to sit on a train from the center of Osijek, come to the center of Zagreb in an hour, hour and a half, but to drive, get into the crowds about the plane that I am not talking about, and that is.../incomprehensible/... and that it will then be able to live in Osijek and work in Zagreb and not have to move all the families on bread. Now, all that sounds nice, but we always fall for this first one again, how, in what way and in what time. Things are going, moving, not fast enough we'll all agree, maybe within the framework of some possibilities, but we have to simply say in the next 4 to 8 years, in the next 2 mandates, we want to find the funding model, we want to pawn what we need, let's go stock by stock, or if it's now a low-level track from Rijeka to Karlovac, or to Zagreb, then let's do it not 2030, but 2024. So on that basis we'll do something further, I'd like to, of course, that first from Osijek to Zagreb is settled but certainly they have models that can be found. So, in conclusion, in what we have on the agenda today and the system of issuing unique security and vehicle approval certificates, we're going to get a certain level of more security and flow and we're generally going to go hand in hand with the market and what's good, we're going to have now, after we adopt this, the public register of railway infrastructure. It will have to be published, we will know everything where, as well as I hope it will be and as far as the situation is concerned, and that all the laws, of course, are more technical nature, with which security will be raised, should be worked on the rail crossings, on the overpasses, on the underpasses, I mentioned in Osijek in Chepinska, and we expect it to start from that phase of project documentation at the stage of the contract and the competitions as soon as possible because it has already been talked about for decades and somewhere something has to be started and something that can be praised and if it succeeds in this model of financing, about 40 million kunas how much this project costs, and what was done in the Ship is not, it is not, so there is no praise and done, so obviously that some things can be done, it just needs to be done and to find the ability to do it in particular to use these European funds. And then when I hear at the same time from the mouth of those who say Europe is bad, and how we got into this alien community, whatever, and then it says it doesn't use enough European money. It's all bad but we need to take their money, I mean it's the absurdity that malts not in one sentence cancel out on each other. So absolutely yes, Europe has made it possible for us to do a lot and we need to make the most of it. And that's what we need to be the starting point where we get that stopper and get that trigger and the first injections financially to do what we might never do ourselves. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183289	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183290	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Curaj, I agree with you when you say that rail traffic but all the other traffic is part of demographic policy. Where there's a good ride, that's where people live. I gave a positive example of the suburban train, the Sava Marof-Dugo Selo, there are people living, there is big traffic, good traffic, it should be further improved. But I have a bad example, I have an example of Harmica-Kumrovec where the railroad was lifted 20 years ago, and today it's gone. The minister was at a meeting in Zagorje, and it is an appeal to all of us, the municipalities that we are on that railway to reconstruct, to connect people, to simply get to what you say, demographic policies, people go from there, there's no transport. No rail transport, no bus transport. That's where we're supposed to work. It means to talk about what is good but also to work on simply making this rail traffic even better and that people simply have the means of transport. Here, it's my appeal, the suburban or that Harmica-Kumrovec railroad that's been shut down to reconstruct itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183291	Thank you. Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183292	Yes, I agree, we've had a lot of these things with me in Slavonia and Baranja, lines that have been shut down and that last for a long time, students who can't then come to class, etc., of course on one side I understand that you have a whole timetable, even there have been protests even during and the Government of Zoran Milanovic, so where you have 20 passengers and a whole line because it's simply unreservable to hold for 20 passengers now or should be made an adequate substitution or something to make it interesting. It's the same as the one where you have a cruise dock, so now you're saying what I want the dock for, I don't want the cruises coming anyway. Well, maybe if you had a dock, you'd be coming, right? It's always a question of what's before, a chicken or an egg? So obviously somewhere you have to do a certain study and see where there's potential, that if you put it, people will use it, if it's worth it, quickly and of course it's safe and we all know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183293	The next replica is the esteemed MPs, Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183294	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, dear colleague Curai, in his debate and in the name of the club as it is now in the individual, on several occasions you cited the importance of the railroad in economic but also demographic terms. I'm going to look first of all at the demographic sense of how important it is. And I've been discussing it, and many colleagues have looked at it the same way, and it's true that rentability won't be achieved at the beginning and the question of when it's going to be raised, but whether it has a price, whether it has a price if it disappears, and therefore I think and I am interested in your opinion that investment in the railways will not be enough just EU funds, but that we need to reach a consensus and tell the railways in the next five years is the most important thing and we are going to go to credit responsibilities but to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183295	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183296	Yes, it is. So the decision was made for 2000 for highways when everyone said it was invaluable and more or less retreated and we started working on our own and then the same creditors returned the loan,... Back up, that's the way it's supposed to be today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether it's through that fuel excise model or another, if it's another sustainable model of funding but yes, we can't wait 10, 20 years and some normal fiscal capacity we have, we need to do it as soon as possible from this demographic. So here I am now looking back at these elections, in Slavonia and Baranja, in 5 Slavonian-Baranja County, of course led by Osijek-Baranja there were 40,000 fewer voters enrolled. 40,000 while in Zagreb there are several thousand, two more. What people were going to say to us before this area for Zagreb, now it is, has spread across the EU practically, and there is actually this demographic aspect where we can ensure that people in these rural and urban areas in Slavonia and Baranja are kept, and that they can earn their bread at least in Zagreb or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183297	The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183298	Thank you very much Vice President, distinguished representatives of the ministry, so here I want to say something about this Safety and Interoperability Act of the Railway System because I see today the debate has led to certain activities of the Assembly MPs, although it was quite simple to refer not only to the law but also to the whole system which is easy to criticise, given that it has some shortcomings and that these shortcomings from year to year probably could not or could not be solved, but we always end up at discussions as to how late there is a train and explain what happened without looking at the wider picture, and it is sufficient through the HACOM report in its part they always create a certain picture of the state of the railway system because they are always the regulatory agency that needs to be monitored and rail traffic, so we know that from the railways in Croatia we can easily say that everything is wrong and that everything in their part of being and that there is not a very good idea of the railway system, so there is only one thing that we know from the railway system, which is very easy from the right way, so we know that we can be able to look at the right way, so we can be able to make the right way. We have 8 freight operators and one in passenger traffic, and that 8 came after market liberalisation. We have 1511 applications for 545 stops and station, 109 tunnels, 544 bridges, 3877 passes and 4263 turns, just one shortage on one of these daily creates a problem in the functioning of the system, and it's not good when we approach it lightly because it's keeping one of these systems with this number, just 544 bridges, let's never think about what can happen there, which can happen in 109 tunnels or malfunctioning certain turns or... It is simply not a system that we can imagine simply as it seems to us by looking at the departure or arrival of the train, we have 980 km of electrified railways only 38%, the EU average is 52%, we know what to do in time ahead of us. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today, the minister comes out and says, what we want or what we do in the term of this government, there is also a nice complex of what is going on in the rail system, the Križevci-Koprivnica railway line, the state border 42 km, the works run 300 million Euros. Furthermore, Gradec-St. Ivan Žabno, it is open all mentioning 12 km 30 million kuna, 30 million value, Vinkovci-Vukovar 18.7 km 72 million EUR, Long Village-Križevci 38.2 km 197 million EUR, Zaprešić-Zabok 24 km 81 million EUR, means around 136 km of railway is building the value of EUR 780 million, we are also preparing a project documentation that is very expensive, much more expensive than the project documentation that was built or worked for highways, so there are 44 km of Hrvatski Leskovac-Karlovac, which should ultimately cost almost EUR 315 million, so we have Kukani-Vinkovci 131 km of design, so we have Karlovac-Oštari, this part of which interests us in the Primorje-Goran County, and then from Ostari further to the river itself, these are over 100 km of projecting itself. And it worked. Looking at what we've been doing for 10 years. On the highways with their resources, they took credit and brought themselves into trouble to build this and ensure that the economic progress of this country was made as soon as possible, it is clear that we could not do so with the rail system and that the EU is exactly the one we need to win because they too want to do so and they want to go through our premises and of course have interest that this system is well functioning, so this law that needs to be built up security, but also the way of issuing certificates, I don't know, for certain carriers to have all the same confirmation, that there are not every country for themselves or that security aspects in each country are quite equal, means that they guarantee that this traffic can flow uninterrupted and that there is no loss, it is clear that this law also contributes, I think that we should all support it in this matter because it is visible to us in traffic, meaning in the field, air, sea, sea and railing, and perhaps in terms of 10. 15 years old. Road traffic in the section of passengers falls in terms of the number of passengers because we see, and we have better infrastructure, let's say, so we have a sea and air that grows, we have made better port infrastructure, better ships, new airports, built-up, renovated, we have our own carrier here and we see that this traffic is growing. For what? Probably tourism is one part, probably something else is also possible the reason why it is growing, but why rail traffic is falling and road traffic compared to these growing two shows data because we had 1,80 million passengers in the air traffic in 2013. 2.22,400,000 more passengers, in road transport 2013. 54 million, 2018. 47 million, we've fallen for 7 million passengers in road traffic, we're talking about bus drivers, all the lines a day from all the destinations and transports, I don't know, passengers in various forms. So we have a maritime transport that grew from 12 million in 2013 to 14 million and 800,000 passengers in 2018, means an increase of nearly 2 million passengers. Why? Probably the reasons are the tourist season which is better every year, I don't believe that because of the number of passengers we are islanders who are equal every year or have us something small, a little more or a little less. We have a railway that fell from 24 million passengers in 2013 to 20 million passengers in 2018, 4 million passengers less, so total we in all kinds with 93 million fell to 85 million in those 5 years, there are reasons for this, but the biggest decline is recorded by road and railway. Why? A number of lines have been abolished, bus particularly in rural areas towards urban areas, we have the same situation with railways, obviously there is probably one part of the traffic, I don't believe that it's right up to the operators themselves, that people have become perhaps even more comfortable, each of us today has a car, one or two basically if that is so there are certain shifts because both highways and all the other moments that took place in road construction certainly contributed and that one part of the passengers moved into personal transport to certain destinations, so this story certainly needs to be cared for by railways and railways, because when I say how many they do they really are not small numbers, train miles, 21 million train miles, it's not, we haven't done anything all year, so the system is standing or not working, 13.8 million tons of freight transported, not numbers that can be ignored or... but that there should be 2 million burdens, a ton of cargo more or perhaps more to drive, certainly to contribute better rail infrastructure, and for that there are resources and we see that it did not stand as it stood in some period from 2000 to 2011, '12, but then it started, it was said that the roads have been established, we have some other parts that we need to solve, but everything now that the state can and will, should be given to the railway infrastructure, the airport, Zagreb, I don't know Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, have been restored, built up, are certainly in a better condition than they were 10 years ago. and surely that the seaports all line from county to state are being built, and there are no problems, that number of passengers confirms it, so the railway is focused, not only on us, but also on the EU for the next 10 years. And that's what we're talking about, two important corridors we're going to solve, but it takes a lot of professional better discussions than this, a late train more or less, we see that our speeds are dropping, that's why bad infrastructure, we don't have anything else to conclude here, it just needs to be improved to improve the speeds in that average part of commercial, passenger and freight, and they're bigger than they are today, and they're less than 5 or 6 years ago. And not a little bit, so something in that system is happening and it needs to be adapted to this time, but when we talk about the investments of these 5 billion is not insignificant in the construction, preparation of construction and certainly not so much and that's not so little, today the minister said a billion kunas in new trains and that's also a story for our producers, but also for all those who need to watch that system I say a lot better than it is looking at here politically. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183299	We have one replica of the respected representative of Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183300	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Boric, I absolutely agree with most of the part you said, I think the Republic of Croatia is in the last 25 years. Many have done as far as traffic is concerned, above all by road, here is a lot of work done in railways although it is not satisfactory or only in one part, but we can definitely argue that we must work together to make the Republic of Croatia even better traffic. All of us who travel a little through Europe know that it actually works better in Europe, that we still have a lot of problems in the Republic of Croatia. You live on an island, and I have repeatedly mentioned that the Republic of Croatia has many, many islands, extremely many cities, very badly connected municipalities, this is no criticism, this is just an appeal and a request for all of us to make common forces make those islands that are on land not islands, but to better connect them both to the railway and to the road, and I say generally bus transport and transportation of primary and secondary schools students is unsatisfactory, much is done And we need even better. [[Intruder: Dear...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183301	...representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183302	Comrade Prelec, that's what we said, so we need it better, and that's probably going to happen, not these aren't the means to throw them away, so let's say again after 5 years. When this is built that we've done something wrong again and your trains are gonna be slow, I guess it'll be faster. As far as maritime transport is concerned, I said, years of investment per billion kuna, there we discussed reports of, oh, investment in islands, they started returning funds, we used to have 3 boaters private, we now only have in ferry transport one and the state one in ferry, and in shipping we didn't have anyone, and today you have 15, 20 that maintain speedboat lines and that system began to generate more passengers, but it's easy at sea, the sea is rail, the sea is a road, you have 2 ends, 2 ports and you agree, it's a simple infrastructure and it doesn't cost much. The railway with all its first project tasks, so in performing what is our problem in our construction operation can't go any faster than it's been until now, it's simply a problem we'll be facing next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183303	The next individual debate will be those respected advocates of Marija Mackovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183304	Dear Mr. Vice-President HS, Mr. Minister with Associates, regarding the bill we are discussing today, and in which most MPs were referred in this way and their relationship with the railway system was in almost most cases negative, and it was mainly about train delays and inability or poor infrastructure. I don't think the rail system is something that can be expected to have large shifts, not less than 20 years old, we have to say that after the Homeland War, which has been around 25 years. and that no investment has been made in this rail transport system, we can't talk like that, at least we who come from the area, rural area, border area, specifically from Sisak-Moslavina County, Jasenovac municipality. I have to say that in this space that was affected by the homeland war this whole part, the specific area of the Jasenovac municipality on its move had two collapsed railway bridges on this move in the last 5 years. intensively worked and worked at railway crossings, at 3 railway crossings complete reconstruction was carried out, meaning ramp and electrical signalling, the fourth crossing on the route of this railway is currently being done or is it a Polish crossing, all for the protection of the inhabitants. I must also say that Jasenovac as an area of nature in the park Lonjsko polje, a border area with BiH, which has the possibility of its inhabitants, means students who go to school or residents who go to a doctor in Sisak and Zagreb in some way do not have a lot of opportunities, have the possibility of going to Novska train, so go to Zagreb and Vinkovce or another possibility, it is the Jasenovac, Sunja, Sisak railway still towards Zagreb. And I have to say regardless, what in the area travels 4 pairs of trains that certain, certain passenger safety is also achieved on this route and thanks to certainly and the efforts of the local community, but also the ministry and the county because Jasenovac is a settlement that, through which the train went back to 1888, there was a train station, today there was a station. We have two Jasenovac and Visnjevica stations and at those stations until three or four or five years ago. After the Homeland War, you couldn't even get on the train, here in the last 3-4 years. They are also set up in Jasenovac at the stand and in Višnica in order to enable those residents and those students who travel, and especially those older residents to use the train because they are the only ones and most of them do not have their own transportation and must use the railway. I also have to say that certain efforts have been made to help people to cross over and perform means to go to school or to a doctor by introducing a particular train. For this area, the railroad system that I've been saying for the last five years. Not only is it not only refurbished through these transitions, but the railway line on this route is being restored because we have certain slides on this move that are being restored here, because as far as I know, part of the section from Zagreb to Sisak is being restored and I can say that I was pleasantly surprised when I traveled by train for a shorter time than traveling by bus or personal vehicle. I must also say that I have the knowledge that part of the railway line from Zagreb to Novska, Vinkovci and that part will go into reconstruction, and obviously that part of the traffic will be rerouted if that part of the railway goes into reconstruction, directed towards this route Zagreb-Sisak, so Jasenovac and Novska, and I think that this part will lead to progress and improvement on this part which, as I said, is extremely important economic, but it is also important and demographic. We are trying and I think that we should try to influence all the cities and municipalities in our county to reach an agreement that students and other passengers travel by train as the cheapest opportunities by signing this agreement that we have received and that in some way we will sign and put public people, the possibility of using the train as the cheapest and in some way this most expensive means of travel. I have to say this, whether you agree or not, but that in the last few years, 10 years, because I say since the Homeland War, it's only been 25 years, and this is a system whose results cannot be seen quickly, but here in this area I have to say that there are certain shifts and that I will be more satisfied or residents of the Jasenovac municipality and all of this part, there is Croatia Dubica and all the way to Sisak that if this railway is opened, there will be maybe more trains and that students will go to Sisak to school and to Zagreb and that it will contribute because the municipality is located in the area of the nature park Lonjsko polje, you have a lot of people who want to visit and Croatia Kostajnica and Sisak and I think that sometimes some lines are not justified and I'm even convinced that all of the lines that are going to Jasenovac from Zagreb and Sisak are not justified, but there are certainly the people who can be used and I can be in the transport of Zagreb and the last resort to the City. The projector is working on rail transport projects, that this part of the relationship will also be restored, that this part of the route will be restored and that it will be a more quality transport that will certainly bring economic and demographic renewal to this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183305	Thank you, we have two replicas, one of the esteemed representatives of Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183306	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, fellow Machkovic, I think with all due respect, after 25 years of the end of the Homeland War, we can't blame the Homeland War on the state of HZ. In the early '90s, I was a student, I traveled to Kutina-Zagreb every day, on a fast train for 53 minutes. It's an hour and 27 minutes today. Well, it's not the Homeland War, it's the negligentness and riding in companies that came from HZ. I don't think we can blame everything on the Homeland War. We have to admit that we made a mistake, that it's not good that we let the railroads go to waste. That's a fact. So let's figure out that fact that it is, let's try moving forward now. Let's not wait for the EU to build us railroads. The railways need us, these are our railways, on Croatian soil, the Croatian state railways, which, if the EU goes apart, will remain a Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183307	Thank you. Dear representative Mačković.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183308	Your Honor, Agent Lenart. As I said, the system hasn't been invested in for years, and as you say, 25 years have passed since the Homeland War, but what happened before that Homeland War? So it wasn't invested enough back then. There have been no programmes and projects, but here, as is apparent, there are now programmes and projects being done and the EU is something that is welcome here and how many projects will be renewed through EU funds related to rail transport? What should I do now? You don't need them to prove anything to me? It's important to go and have projects because if you don't have a project you can't get anywhere, so projects are done, you have to have them, time will pass, it won't be today, tomorrow, but it will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183309	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183310	Thank you. Ma'am. Honorable MPs, you spoke often about ramps, signalling, setting, all the consumer material that it takes every 2, 3 years or how much, to change, but bigger investments, let's face it, it wasn't 50 years. The minister spoke in his presentation about projects that we hope will be realized, that he will not remain on projects as often he is. The fact is, for 50 years, it hasn't been invested in railways. The fact is that Bjelovar-Bilogor County 20 years ago, imagine, 20 years ago they started a project and activities that finally came to an end last year, which is the St. Ivan Žabno-Gradac, which is just over 12 km long and the construction cost 240 million kuna, with 80% of the costs covered from EU funds. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183311	Dear representative Mačković.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183312	Your Honor, ma'am. Counselor, you say you haven't invested in 50 years, and that's true. That this setting and this repair of the track, or the slide, are consumable goods, I disagree with you that it is expendable goods. The expendable goods are this paper that you're going to throw away now or like me. So that's vital to us, and if it hasn't been invested, it doesn't mean that we have to fight today, but let's all make an effort to do programs and projects, run for office, and that we all have a better future in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183313	Thank you very much. Next, we're going back to our point. The next individual debate is that respected representative, Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183315	I thank the Honorable President, I would return to that unfortunate break where you did not warn Mr. Glasnović and you said it was normal, so remember when he will be there next time there will be an offensive painting for you personally, that you will also not issue warnings and that you understand that you have done so to Glasnović, so you must also do to others. Here, I'm sorry for using this time a little bit for that, but I had to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183316	There were various offensive messages, pictures, promotional pictures, so no one was warned about it, right? As I recall, there was all this, me, for me personally totally unacceptable, but, that's so, unfortunately, it goes on to the souls of those who do it. [[I hope you won't either when it's at your expense.]] They talk about their attitude towards things, respecting this House, respecting their constituents, respecting them, if you want some cultural behavior in politics. It's going to their soul.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183317	All right. There's gotta be some level. Thank you very much. Let's get back to the Croatian railways. As I have already spoken in several replicas about problems in HZ, unfortunately, these problems have been created for almost 30 years and unfortunately we have not found a model in which to try to solve them. Then we had an HZ company that was controlled by the state and maintenance of rails and freight transport and passenger transport and everything that's broken down today on several companies and by that crumbling on companies we've just come into this situation that our situation on the railways is catastrophic. 30 years ago, it means the beginning of '90s when I was a student even with those cars that were like the ones from the “Train in the snow” when the passenger train was recorded faster than the one we have at our disposal. The problem is the maintenance of railways that are not done properly for several reasons, and the latest one is that there are already some missing workers without which they can not, who have to do things manually on these Croatian railways and we are increasingly witnesses, and I see it at my railway crossing on the street where the train slows down even below 20 km per hour because someone has not arranged the turns. And then one day something is going on, so as a train goes faster and then again a month the train slows down and I think it's a catastrophic state exactly and the reason why people don't travel by trains, why the less and less burdens are being driven by trains because it's taking too long. Crossover capacities are also in poor shape and then normally that truck transport that drives from door to door has taken a large part of it. What is happening today on Croatian railways that contributes to the destruction of Croatian railways is also the appearance of a large number of operators driving along the railways and I don't know how well they are and how much they really check the quality of the locomotives that are not maintained as they should not stop being perfectly round and thus break the tracks that are in such bad shape. When you go somewhere and walk along the track you can see that you can take out the screws that hold those rails in your helmets, which then leads to security problems and I have reliable data from the neighbor who is the driver of Croatian railways who is precisely because of this security problem because it is a younger man leaving for Austria. Here, learn language and drive a locomotive in Austria. His biggest reason for leaving is because a man has little children, he doesn't want to be guilty of something he's not responsible for, and that's what too little attention is added to. For some directions, it is good that they are an EU interest, so the Union will invest money in these corridors, the very corridor from Zagreb to the east should be modernised, but I think it will be a long time before it, because as far as I have information cannot be in the same level of cross-breeding, a large number of overpasses will be built. Many residents who are on that route, who should be either evicted or disfigured living in suspense and often ask that question when they will finally start, as long as we wait, whether we will have to move out, perhaps to those people who are on that track sending some notices and an indicative plan of construction, renovation and railways that they know how to plan some of their lives in the future because it is also about older people, but also to those who, by that very information, are at some stage, I know that even at the buying-out stage, there are some plots and measurements, but people want to know that information so that they can plan their own life. I don't know how much we are able to follow EU directives today, but we can prescribe them into the law to infinity, but technically we're not even close. Although, like I said, I had a chance to ride Europe by train. Madrid, Barcelona 3 hours and 20 minutes. Since I was at the time I was in the ministry with the minister, I had the opportunity to be alone, at the cockpit manager, where that train was headed, the speed was 308 kilometers we were driving. It's fascinating for us when you're sitting down and there's a drink on the table and nothing's rocking and nothing's falling off the table. I think it's an unreal speed for Croatia because I think we're too small to expect such a speed at all, but the speed of 160 km per hour is for us the science fiction so that when we do so, we'll probably be driving by trains more often, the more burdens will pass the Croatian railways. My support for all ministers and all ministries that make any positive move because we are currently witnesses, and my colleague Pernar has not long spoken here about a timetable that is ever longer for the same relationship, which proves that the quality and transport and state of rail infrastructure falls from day to day. So we're still sinking, we're not stopping, we're sinking. I don't know how we're going to do that, that's why we're leaving both young people, and that's why our economy is turning to other jobs, and I think we should look up to Germany that liberalized rail transport, and almost 99% of this transport is being carried by Deutsche Bahn. It's not like that for us. Here I live in the Box where Petrochemy is, and every day I meet some weird locomotives with some weird signs that travel to Petrochemy, from Petrochemy, carrying raw materials. Whether they're in such good shape that they can travel or not, it depends on you, but God didn't let what happened to us with those spraying tracks where people died, where they were killed and machines and where trials went on forever and we don't know who the real culprit is. Please, Minister, make sure that it takes at least a little bit of a positive, and that by next year at least five minutes, you cut some of the ties that we're faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183318	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183319	Thank you very much. As I said in the replica that safety in transport, in this case rail transport is very important, of course, that any public transport improves, i.e. It also affects our climate problems that we need to be careful about, the public transport obligation to encourage, and, unfortunately, rail transport which is much worse at this point than it was 40, 50 years ago. It is slower to come from Split to Zagreb than it was in the 1990s and even a few hours later, the infrastructure is old, trains could be much more capable of rail transport and could contribute much more to the climate conditions of course and passengers' assistance and development of the Republic of Croatia, mainly areas where this railway infrastructure means a lot. And everything the minister said at the beginning I would immediately sign about security, as far as development is concerned, a little off the subject of parliamentary representatives, but the development of railway infrastructure which is as I said at the time of the Wild West that we looked at in the film, so that in this context we can observe today's rail infrastructure in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Just look at what passengers say, what they say about this mode of transport. Croatia is a beautiful country and I think it would be much more helpful for tourism if these trains were a little faster, people liked to observe and have the custom to travel a lot of people have this custom of traveling by train, meaning that it would also contribute to this potential of travel by rail and rail. However, neither is security at the level, we will bring this regulation or the EU directive, we will coordinate, however, it is a fact that in this financial period 2014-2020. Croatia didn't do anything. Otherwise, after withdrawing funds from the EU at the bottom of the EU, below Malta, we were one of the last. So we talk too much about agreed projects, and we don't talk about what's been paid, what's been done. So when I'm listening here otherwise, or the Minister of Regional Development or the Minister of Resort as much as it's been invested, you can't be the source, I mean, of those 10 billion, it turns out we've invested more, but it's not true. So we're at the bottom after the withdrawal. How many projects are agreed, that's another thing. What interests our citizens is how much of these funds have been withdrawn. And I'm glad that the minister is ambitious that he predicts it in 2023, 2024, 2025, probably the Minister of Youth's account looks like he'll be a lifetime minister, but if we look at the continuity of the development of traffic safety, mostly railways, railways, and then I believe that we'll all keep on calling and that minister who comes after you that you didn't do anything, then he'll say we couldn't in four years. When the Croatian state was created or before the railway traffic began from you. No, we just didn't take advantage of all the potentials we had. We haven't obviously had too much bad governance, management of everyone about railways and passenger transport and cargo and overall, we have a huge problem here, and we haven't taken advantage of that potential. I'm glad, here I was just saying that Croatia has former rail routes that have been shut down, it was recently the minister. In his opening speech, he mentioned either the replica, that it had been closed 50 years ago, and recently it was opened by a railway route of about 12 kilometers. So it was my Cetina landscape known for the ferati, we called it the Fermat Sinjska rera, it was the only link of the Dalmatian Burn with Split, the one from that area. '62. The year was shut down in fact she was the key to development, all of our grandmothers who produced agricultural products were on the Split Market driving with that rover and there was a part of that railroad, I think it would tribal in thinking about returning the famous Sinjska rra. If you were watching Vela Misto was the Baco who ran they said he came faster from Sinj to Split he ran faster than the rra. I think it's a tourist's even potential, but that's what the Ministry of Tourism would do, and you could even find that locomotive, that would be good. And I think the triba has that vision for the survival of these people and of life in those areas mainly of traffic security. I believe that Croatia is on important traffic routes that are mentioned from Rijeka to Hungary, these are all important routes because of the ports, because of everything we have, but the real situation is currently no major shifts. Minister, I wish there were bigger shifts and I could say that in 2030 you would open it, I can trust you. And who guarantees we'll open it in 2030? So, realistically, the plans are important, I know it's pre-election time, and that you're a good eye to the people, and that's where I really admire you, and that's where I give you the award for eye massage to the people, there's phenomenal, phenomenal, especially the other day when you were in my Dalmatian burn, and again you mention the quick road compound... Zagvozd-Imotski will now be a Kukuzovci... but I beat you to it I've laid stone foundations, you know that are the cornerstones. You have to come right away with the baggers to take down and start working, so don't trip the costs, I've saved you insurance, gnaws, drinks, toasts because we've had enough openings and rock foundations ahead of the election. Let's go a little bit more seriously now, I'd come back once more when we talk about traffic security the minister is and we talked here a little while ago is a significant problem outside the debate itself, meaning a huge problem and it's not out of the debate, traffic security is very important, and when we MPs have the opportunity to watch the minister it's good for the people to hear and that the minister hears about the problem. So once again, I talked to the minister here in front of the assembly about the problem, I had a press release, so we have a problem that we have no limitations on the age of buses and bus owners, the oldest buses transport students and students. And what's happening to you? I'm gonna do it again in the press, and I'm gonna do it again until this problem is solved because I don't want to listen to the parents cry every day, that it's a fear of sending them to school. The buses on Kliss are broken, he's burned on Kliss, he's burned on Betelić, he's burned, I mean, it's really a problem, and we have to. Clearly, clearly, I said that I went off topic, I think they will and so are all respected colleagues with Reiner i.e. Vice President of the Parliament, everyone was speaking out of the question. [[Intruder Reiner: We are talking about railways colleague Bulj.]] This is about security. Let the minister say how many questions he had about security, how many questions he had about the projects, so you've been trying to warn everyone. This is an important topic to me, and I think it's about the safety of rail traffic and I've been speaking my mind, and here in the context of this debate would use traffic safety is buses up daily. The children are in danger, only the driver's ability so far has not burned. I don't think I ran off topic in the sense that I wanted to usurp something, I believe the minister is familiar with this security problem in transport because here is the safety of course about railways. I made the request on October 17th to the inspection, the inspection carried out the surveillance she sent to the MUP, so there's no attitude for three months, and I don't know what happened and what happened. I believe the minister will by regulation, if the taxi service for safety is also a railway and taxi traffic for five years, it seemed to me, now five years of driving, the bus has no limits. And of course concerns Mate Jujnović's buses for Germany's latest, buses to Zagreb latest, in Makarska latest, and here in Zagor us to be seen by people fellow MPs every day failures, children are on the road, imagine what is in the rural area, these are areas of Dalmatia Zagor. I think the tribal, I don't think, would be our obligation that every child in traffic security must be a primary child and all passengers, and especially a drawer. Well, I can't skirt buses waste buses 40 years old transporting our students. Imagine when your parents call you, there's an announcement, there'll be protests, I'll join them, I'll be the first to be with the people, and I believe the minister has the right rules as he made for taxi services can and the bus chiefly. I warn you, the safest money is to traffic those owners, their safest money is to pay off the state, the county... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183320	... Uncle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183321	My colleague Bulj, on our Adriatic Sea there are three interesting ports of Rijeka, Kopar and Trieste. What am I saying that for? Because lately, there has been more and more talk of the new Chinese silk road. These ports are essential that through them goods, not just from China and from the rest of the world they come here and then transported to, say, northern Europe, the central part of Europe, etc. And in order for us to compete for our Rijeka to be the Port of Rijeka right in competition for that silk road except that we need to build a port so that large ships can dock, and also to build high-quality railways. Therefore, I feel that this law is welcome than should have seen the light of day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183322	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183323	I agree, and I will be happy if Croatia is on the world traffic routes most important, that the port is more developed. I prefer it to be onion than Kopar, personally. All we're trying to do is make everything that comes through us, across our port and that these directions and that Croatia has profits and the triba investment and I don't have that problem, just let God be that way. I'd like to mean this is a harmonisation of the law security this, what, here you were now off topic like me. We haven't talked that much about projects at all, we talked more about security, the agency, security... I read this law, but it is good to speak affirmatively about these directions, and I believe that Croatia is in these directions and that these projects will be done as soon as possible and that Croatia will be significant and will benefit from that for the survival of people in this area. But I also expect the minister to answer me... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183324	Finally, on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, the respected representative Curaj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183325	Thank you. Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will really take this opportunity, given that we here today have discussed 99% of the content of what is not a topic of the agenda directly, so the proposal for a law on the safety and interoperability of the railway system is generally about the railway system. And of course we're all full of that mouth of how something's wrong, how there should be herbs, how we've all diagnosed nicely, and we know what these problems are, and I think every citizen of ours knows that too. You don't have to be too smart to see what the problem is, why something isn't working, and of course we haven't heard anything about the solution, not a single suggestion that this is all we've heard today and since the morning, so all day long something changes, not a single proposal. At the very end of the line, if we had so many smart people, I guess something would be done in terms of previous governments and those who might now have some subsequent brains. That's why, I didn't mean it, but I'm going to say it right here just as long as the minister is one of his humble proposals, I'm not saying he's going to be revolutionary, I'm not saying it's something that we could all agree on first, but we really need to set ourselves strategically as a priority to be our development of transport infrastructure, and then the economy, demographics and everything that goes with it, to be rail traffic, passengers with an emphasis on travellers, of course, how you develop passenger and economical or freight and all this is going to be a problem. If we were to really determine ourselves as I said earlier that the railways were becoming our new highways, I didn't just say it symbolically, but I mean it literally. One way is we're not waiting for 2050 to do something about our fiscal capacities and our funds because we're going to invest dramatically for the next few years, where's the money from? The main and basic question of where money comes from for all of this, for these beautiful desires, for all of these diagnosed problems, for all of us who care who want better, honestly, inexplicably,.../incomprehensible/... however anyone who wants to help is always welcome. The proposal I'm seeing and it's in the highways right now, that the means we need to transfer to the one we spend on the highways on the railroad. To use everything we've invested in highways so far to develop rail traffic. How? By monetizing, by rerouting some of the excise duties that went to pay off loans and highway financing, and then even by issuing government bonds. By monetization or concession if we are to be financed by credit, and even here, a concession is possible because we don't need suddenly EUR 10 billion—and how much we would get by monetization or more than we can by concession and through a concession concession to manage highways we pay the loans with which we invest in the railway. To calculate whether the part of the excise duty that we are now taking for HAC and HAC and credit funding would be released by doing so because they would be reduced, would certainly be reduced by concession costs, operational costs of doing business on these highways, and also by earning a part for new loans potential and thus actually create a huge credit potential that will bring us this all we dream of and talk about not 20 years from now but by 5, because it's only a matter of money. Because it's impossible for 10 years to work a railroad through Slavonia to be a fast track, that's impossible, that's what people do for 10 years on water cities, cities on water. So the island finds and builds cities, skyscrapers on water not 10 but 5. So it's possible construction is possible today and this is one of the proposals. I'm not saying he's the best, I'm not saying he's revolutionary, but he's constructive and concrete. If we want what we want, then someone says they want a railroad, then let them say they want a fast railroad, let them say they want to get to it. In what way? Whether they will take from workers' salaries, whether they will take from education, whether they will take from something else, from health care, from the police, or perhaps support this part of the concession to give some things with a clear goal of purpose, not by drawing up budgets like it may have been in that government's intensity, but by investing in something that will lead to the development of economic, demographic and everything else. Here, that's a concrete suggestion, if you might have a little more of those suggestions that way, you might think about it, but I'm also calling on all those who discussed today to make their proposals on how to do something, at least one part of what we've heard here today. A nice list of wishes and one long list of things that are wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183326	Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183327	Dear colleagues and colleagues, there's not much of us, it's Friday, but every topic is important, every one of them needs to take advantage of the occasion, I've been repeating it mostly since the minister's here. I would once again say to the minister that the most important thing is to present what has been done and to have plans and solutions but as few promises as possible because people are more inert to those promises I know about what is promised about the traffic itself, but this is about the Law on the Security of the Railway System which is essentially a proposal of the Government, which is essentially a alignment with those regulations that are expected of us to act at all, but the current situation is disastrously unfortunately in the railways and to look at that tribune realistically, and I simply said at first and I am standing there that it was just better when there was a wild West and from those films that we loved and watched there. that it was during Wyatt Erppa and Doc Hollyday. If this was the way it was, that they were state and security, it's not good. Every year, an hour slower than Split to Zagreb or from Zagreb to Osijek, so it's not good. We have social networks here today, so they also know when social networks show what our railroad is in, what security is. Whether administrations can work, whether the best way to function and organise in us about everything about rail traffic is a question, but security is very important. We can also try to believe that Croatia is in key directions mainly as regards these ports and that this will contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia and the rest of the people in these areas, mainly where ports are like, where we mention it as Rijeka and others, that these railways will mean a lot. Well, it would mean a lot to the Zadar part, and it would mean a lot to Split if they were much better ports, this one that's a much better railroad, but it's not. I mean, unfortunately, and that's what they're testifying, because they'd unload both the highways and the alternative roads of these state roads as far as traffic goes. Unfortunately, it's not the best condition, it's the worst. I think it's the worst in Europe. We even have parts of the Republic of Croatia where we have railways, where we have to enter third countries because in Slovenia to come from Istria to Croatia. So there's this problem, but these alternative directions that the minister mentions are really saying, that it's not pre-election time and promises, and that's what's most important is the safety, the safety of our passengers is, if there's no more security, the rail traffic will sink, people will lose jobs, the only thing that's going to work is the administration of these companies that are inside of passenger traffic, commercially, and so, what's not good in the Republic of Croatia, so that administration will live well, but it'll lose jobs, it'll lose those environments that extra value with the railroad, but here I would say and this historical part of di mentioned that it's 50.g. Open railroad, I reminded him of the sonic rare, I hope that's his... Sinjska, if it had come into his ear and such, there is certainly another project that could be made from EU funds through both tourism and transport, so that in the future the triba and plan it, and in the end it would have really asked once more about traffic safety, unfortunately road traffic, we talked too much about projects, but this is the most people interested in what is with the projects, it was little more expensive and out of the topic not only of me but of all parliamentary representatives. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would once again just the minister to publicly state what would happen to the rule that taxis were cut by 7 years. at 5.G., while buses have no borders and those the oldest and worst are essentially transporting students like I said transport and students because there is the safest charge for them, these ministries subsidize, local self-government and founders of the county, of course most of them are founders of the county and individual cities and that traffickers are mainly in my Sinj, here is Promet Sinj i.e. Transport Makarska, Mate Jujnović, which is essentially, is a corrupt octopus as he took over the Auto Transport Sinj and in the way he took over absolutely nothing from the contract he fulfilled, nor does the guarantee still lie in the safes he gave, and our drawer and our parents are terrified because parents are anxious to get back a drawer and would like the answer to what's with the rule, it's part of your minister about the buses. [[Intruder: Thank you, I conclude...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183328	...the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183329	Proposal for a Law on Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 819, Proposer of the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System and other all objections and proposals will be adopted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 109 for, 6 abstentions and 1 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183330	We move to the following point: - Proposal for a law on the provision of information on multimodal travel, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 820. What is it? What's up, buddy Bull? You're not listening to what's being said here, are you? Uh, I'm based on an art. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the respected Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Oleg Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183331	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, honourable parliamentary representatives, for the proposal of the Law on the provision of information on multimodal travel, a legal framework for the implementation of Commission Delegated Regulation 2017/1926 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the provision of information on multimodal travel at EU level, which for the first time regulates the establishment of a national access point that combines data for all modes of transport and prescribes the necessary specifications and in order to ensure that information on multimodal travel throughout the EU is properly and accessible to intelligent transport systems users abroad. The national access point is a unique information and communication system for users on static data in travel and transport, as well as historical traffic data for different modes of transport, including data update, provided by transport authorities to transport carriers, infrastructure managers or transport service providers on request in the area of the Republic of Croatia. The objective of the law in question is that travel information services can offer end-users more opportunities to travel with different carriers, which is necessary for information and planning needs before travel. This law provides that the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure shall establish a national access point, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, by means of a decision, verify or entrust the technical tasks of the national presence of a legal person with public authority, the bodies responsible for the transport of carriers, infrastructure managers and transport service providers on request once a year by 31 January for the previous year, be obliged to provide the Ministry with the necessary target data and that the Ministry shall cooperate and exchange data with the national access points of the other EU Member States. The Republic of Croatia should bring together existing public and private access points at one point to allow access to all types of relevant available data covered by the scope of the specifications in question. Currently in Europe, there are a significant number of services to provide information on multimodal travel to services that offer complete calculated routes from door to door, are mostly limited in the area of a Member State. A key solution for greater geographical coverage of travel information services and support for multimodal travel information throughout the Union, linking local, regional and national travel information services. Several information and communication systems are currently active in the Republic of Croatia which collect data on certain modes of transport. First, both the Croatian Integrated Maritime and Information Data Exchange System on ships, cargo and passengers in the formal procedure of announcing and reporting arrival and departure as well as related official procedures. Second, river information services or information services intended to support the management of domestic water transport, including wherever technically justified connection with other modes of transport and third, the Crocodile II Croatia project, which includes public road managers and highways. The data on travel and transport referred to in the attached Commission Delegated Regulation may be integrated into the national access point by means of a gradual approach, this proposal for a law on multimodal travel shall be based on static travel and transport data representing the level of service of one of the annexes, which we can integrate at this time. For passengers across the EU, it is essential that service providers provide accurate and reliable travel information. The total cost of establishing a national access point is 3.7 million kuna starting in 2020 and we plan to report this cost as a 3 million kuna co-financing project for EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183332	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, you've raised your hand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183333	Thank you very much, Vice President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club of 10 minutes on the Proposal for a Law on the provision of information on multimodal information because I believe that when discussing these points, important points for our citizens, and when parliamentary representatives ask questions about important points, they always expect in the end that the minister will answer them something. I know that today is Friday, I know that everyone is in a hurry, and I would like to come to Sinj, it was written on the screen that the minister will answer questions asked by parliamentary MPs mainly about traffic security as we discuss some points, about 3 million kuna, 3 million euros, the minister does not answer key questions that parliamentary representatives are asking, and I know that the rush, I know that he quit and I even withdrew, I will be correct in the hope that the minister will correctly answer the questions of the parliamentary representatives, and when we talk about traffic, I have not received answers, so I believe that I will not get answers to these questions about access points, traffic, information, who, when, as long as we're up in the bus. I can't, it has to do with this point, dear secretary, don't be, it has this point because we're talking about traffic, we're talking about traffic information, a point that 3 million will cost that reference point where we need to install the infrastructure and we have buses up there. Once again, worse for us buses where the children are, I didn't get an answer and I expected Minister Butkovic to answer because it's solely his responsibility and by this moment, he's taking that responsibility and of course we need to discuss now in the club this proposal for a law on providing information on multimodal information, so it means your proposal, so we'll sit down, and we'll discuss what we'll... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183334	Thank you very much, of course, even though what you're saying has nothing to do with this point of thread with the previous point, you said it at the previous point, of course I'll give you a break and then I'll see you here at 14 and 15 minutes. MEETING IN 14.06 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.16 HOURS]] The first is a respected representative of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183336	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of HS, Your Honor. So this bill will introduce a national access point and now, it would be good to know that in Croatia we already have a Law on national spatial data infrastructure. Let me just say in a sentence, every data is spatial data. About how much water someone spends, how many children are enrolled in kindergarten, and this data is spatial. The assumption is that some automation or some national point related to this will be networked, or in a certain way related to the national point, so infrastructure data for which the State Geodetic Authority is normally in charge, so I wonder if this law needs to be defined in such a way that it is known that this relationship exists or that you have already held talks with the State Geodetic Authority to see how It actually works. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183337	The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183338	Very briefly, this second one, we're talking to them, it wasn't necessary to put it there because this is a clean alignment with the directive so it wasn't even envisaged, but we're in contact with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183339	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183340	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, I think this is unfortunately right now at this time, I don't know how many people are looking at us, but one of those laws that will really make it easier for people to live on their own. It's commendable, commendable, I mean, I can't admire that something like this will exist. I'm just curious about how we're going to unite these public ones, I can understand that, but these access points, private access points, given the transport on demand, personal transport, so here when we talk about all possible car rentals, bikes, etc., all that exists, how we're going to abdicate those data, how we're going to get there, and then whether that data is actually going to be used as a database for other applications that will have access to that database, or whether this will just be directly linked to other European national access points.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183341	The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183342	So it's very short. It'll be connected to everyone. It will take us 3 million kunas to establish it all, it is not an easy job and service to deal with and it will be in touch, or it will be connected, the goal is to be connected to everyone. That's our goal, yes, and the information will, of course, be available to everyone who needs it, who will look for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183343	The next replica of the respected representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183344	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, the multimodal transport system is a combined transport system that connects every road, rail, and I don't list all the forms of traffic, so I'm interested in the fact that with us, it's the same prerequisite for creating an integrated travel solution, when you think we could set up the first objective case or example of an integrated journey, or we're thinking about a tourist who can buy a single ticket, if we could just put it in motion to have some result of everything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183345	The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183346	Very short. So by the end of this year, it's the establishment of a national point, that's the goal. Now, I can't make promises that it will be at the end of this year or early next year. Software should be established by the end of this year, and then we will see when the first implementation will be, or when it will be, first available to that, I understand what you asked me, tourist, clearly, when his train, when his plane, when it is, in fact, in a series, is all connected. I'm trying, what I think is real, in 2021, is that we're going to have that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183347	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183348	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Transport today is one of the fundamental factors and economies of a single country, it represents one special economic and social activity that has a decisive impact on both economic and political and social movements of individual social communities, so the minister has already explained everything that this proposal of the Law on the provision of information on multimodal travels is accomplishing. Therefore, the following EU Parliament and Council Directive on the introduction of intelligent transport systems in road transport and related to other modes of transport as a priority measure has been established, therefore the provision of information on multimodal travel throughout the EU and the objective of this law is to establish a legal framework for the implementation of that Regulation and, in practice, the proposed legislation, the establishment of a national access point which represents a single information and communication system for users on static data, travel and traffic and historical traffic data for different modes of transport including the update of the data as set out in the proposal for this Regulation, which is provided by all relevant transport, transport operators, infrastructure managers or transport service providers on request in the whole country. This national access point is therefore a unique access point for all users from different modes of transport provided by stakeholders in the area of a Member State. The aim is, therefore, to unite all existing public and private access points into a single one that would allow access to all types of relevant available data covered by the scope of these specifications. What is crucial, therefore, for passengers across the EU is that service providers provide accurate and reliable travel information and, when changes occur, transport authorities or carriers should update those data in a timely manner by means of a national access point. In addition, when the service provider uses travel and traffic data, there is the possibility that these incorrect information to show users what is creating problems and making it difficult to travel, etc., therefore the aim is essentially when the authorities are responsible for traffic, transport operators and managers to detect such errors, that they are obliged to correct them in a timely manner and in that sense the information on multimodal travel is based on statistical data and traffic and are necessary for the purposes of information and travel planning. Therefore, the aim throughout the EU is to have quality, accurate and reliable information on these travels under the obligation of the transport authorities or carriers to update these data in a timely manner by means of a national access point and, in the sense that I am not expanding further, the HDZ Club accepts the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183349	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183350	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, state secretaries and associates. It is before us in the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the provision of information on multimodal travels. I only hear two, three sentences before I look back at this law, sitting in this House for a while, always wondering when it's a good time and when it's when there's a little more MPs than it is now and then it turns out that I don't know it, sometimes in the morning, and not before lunch, and sometimes behind the first coffee, and then behind the second coffee. This is an interesting topic, and I'm not going to say that all MPs need to discuss everything and I don't think that we're representatives of general practice anymore, but there are no more or less interesting topics and I have to admit that it's so little depressing when I see that there are fewer people on this side of this table, there are always three of you and there's often more here than we are in the assembly. It's Friday, it's not so late, I know that those who go home go home, but maybe this particular topic might interest them because it's multimodal travel, so it would be convenient to see what it's going to be. We at the Voice Club will support this law first reading. So this law creates some frameworks and some assumptions that something might work. In the replica, the minister said to establish a national access point takes time. That's right. It takes time, no one has a magic wand and no one can do anything overnight, about whether it's worth 3 million or another, I guess you did the job and you know what it's supposed to be. Therefore, it is necessary to establish and then take care of how it is filled with data. You can have the best hardware possible and everything but it's important how you get the data, how much data will be available to everyone and that's something to take care of. I am and I will repeat that, there in 2013, the Republic of Croatia was one of those first EU countries, which is respecting a directive on this... Directive adopted the Law on national spatial data infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means that spatial data is collected, collected in one place and what was the key place that was in charge of it is the State Geodetic Administration and it seemed to me to be one of the ways that you're showing that you care, that you're taking care of, so these are different data, really very different that you can then for all possible strategies and all possible documents collect and everything else. What I know from time to time to go and look at how much data is collected there, I'm afraid it's relatively small and it's actually in a certain way depressing, it's not the data that you're using exclusively for a kind of job, but let's say for every strategy, for some earthquake maps of Croatia, for where a water network needs to be developed, where it needs to be strengthened, it's good data but what it is, there it is. To get back on the subject of this law, so we're going to have a national access point, and there it is, all the time, that big difference between reality and some theoretical setting. We'll have a law between the first and second readings if there's anything else to be done in cooperation with other bodies, you'll do it. We'll have a national access point and everything done right and then we get to reality. Some time ago my younger son told me that he was at the main station, in Zagreb I'm talking about the main station in Zagreb, and that they were there, and the darkness was headed by all these tourists from the far east countries, that there was a group of Japanese who didn't take pictures of the main station, didn't take pictures of anything, she took pictures of the order of arrival because there was a train, now all I'm going to say is wrong, from somewhere to come at a certain time and then there was a delay of two and a few hours, they had such fun, they took pictures of it, they probably rarely saw it when they saw it in life, so from architecture and the ambience it was more important. We often have a case that, of course, the media always take advantage of and absolutely have the right, now there was a case of a bus where the driver was, because the highway was closed because of the storm, so the driver turned away, so he went to the wrong place, so he was going round and round, so there are some realities when this point is, well, we have it, when we network it at the level of all points of the EU, is that the point of positioning and everything else, I'm afraid it's all a little unsettling together. The example that counterpart Vedran Babic said, so an example of a tourist arriving by plane, then landing at the airport, and then by means of a transport must come to the main station, so from the main station some train needs to get to Split, and then by some ferry to Vis, it will be interesting to see if it can be combined at all and how long it takes, but maybe it is good for us all to see the real reality and see how it works. I'm not talking about being here right now, I don't know either ironically or negatively all together, but we have to live in the reality that we live in. This kind of thing, I think we need to be encouraged to become aware of some of the things that we're aware of when we do, so we forget and become aware of some of the things that matter. The usual function was 10 or 15 years ago. At the level of other EU countries, we operate in the EU, so it was well taken for example where people used, traveled by car, the whole family sat in the car and then traveled by car. Then it's been replaced by some other means, I'm not related to the problem of climate change and adapting them to some kind of religious fatalist, so that this one thinks exclusively, I think this great activism is good to develop awareness of having a problem. I am for some real frames, I'm sure that people will travel less and less with their personal cars for a simple reason, not to get into another topic, but there are reasons why because hybrid cars, electric cars, the question is when you go to the country as many chargers and everything else, that people who have a consciousness about their small actions have to influence it, use public transport funds, use trains that we talked about earlier, will benefit some other models and other things, and therefore it's important that the country actually has some way to use different types of travel, that now there's really no need for these talks to go a lot further than the topic, to repeat what I said at one point, we at GLAS Club will support this, I ask you to see this conversation with the MP that every sector does not turn out to do its story, and then someone who needs to eat it in a closet, and it's always say it's very important to do it. And equally, it's good, and we'll come to a picture of what that means about multimodal travel to the Republic of Croatia, I'm just afraid we don't get depressed when we all see together where other EU countries are compared to where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183351	Thank you, the next Club of Representatives is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Stephen Curaj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183352	I thank the esteemed Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, here as I have said the proposal of the Law on the provision of information on multimodal travels, this may sound abstract to viewers, such as citizens, in fact, that you use more different types of means of transport to get to your destination, that means not from the point of departure to the destination with one transport, but by combining different modes of transport, and then you have all possible in that included, public transport, I don't think I have to mention what it means and then says transportation on request, by bus, by taxi, by taxi, sharing a car, sharing cars that our citizens are already doing, you have different applications for the same where they connect with others, etc., renting bicycles, renting bicycles, and then saying more personal transportation, so this means all of walking, so to one place and to the other. What exactly is that supposed to bring? For us as a tourist country, I said that this is one of those laws and, and something that we are discussing here, which should have a concrete effect, not only on our citizens, on users, but not on service providers who will also be users of this point of access or database, but of course tourists as tourism countries in planning their journeys by certain categories are the starting point being chosen, it is seen whether it is the fastest, most favourable or whatever model they have involved. What I read from the material to begin with is that it will be static data, we have dynamic and static, in a manner of speaking static would be those who rarely or less update themselves, so these are some timetables that are known in advance that are not included in some delays, changing the route, etc. Unlike those dynamics that should actually seek to get as precise information as possible about whether a line is late, a ferry cancelled or one stopped transporting or not, a taxi is waiting too long, etc. Namely, of these static as I understand it, in research, 43 different categories to which you can determine what you want more or better, but those are the main locations, destination, destination, travel plans themselves, in which way, by means of transport, calculate how much it would cost, etc., etc., therefore, availability whether there is something available or not, whether there is a bike available, electric car, rent a car, taxi, metro, tram, as far as public transport is concerned. And it's a great thing at the level of all Europe to communicate, when you go somewhere then you can have, you can use it as an opportunity to come from the airport, which is a significant thing to say that when you come to some foreign airports and that's true for our tourists, the most expensive part is when you take a taxi and you know that you can go through a combination of public transportation, let's say up to 10 times cheaper. Now, what I asked here, I guess it's in the plan except for some web interfaces and portals, making and certain apps that would take it off to smart phones. We already have on the market certain applications that contain it. I don't know... some Googles, of some special smart phones, from their apps where they calculate to you what is most optimal, which are at all transport possibilities but don't have any such or approximate such databases that we could do here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My idea was also the question of whether it would be on track as an application, whether these external applications of others would be able to use those databases, whether it would be open bases so that they could pick up all these cars in order, all the infrastructure part that we do, which costs millions to bring it together, you know what all the timetables of all the public passenger or any kind of passenger transport in one country, in one city and not in one country, and this is what we're talking about throughout the country. So, a huge project, but one of those that will really come to life, not if but when it comes to life makes it easier and better and better transport. And now let's get back to the previous point. When you have that system, imagine now the situation that some low-tariff company comes to Osijek, and from Osijek to Zagreb with some kind of means of transport, Budapest or somewhere else-- because it has exactly the cheapest way to get to Osijek and then from Osijek, I want to go from not knowing, London to Zagreb or Budapest, in fact, the cheapest way to get to Osijek and then take some super fast train that's gonna be 10 years from now when we make this model that I've come up with and drive to Budapest or somewhere or to Zagreb because by train that hour, that's when I go to London, I think... 'Cause I was traveling to Baker Street out there on some bus, I don't know how I found it, mostly, I wasn't paying a cab, she didn't leave me smartly, but for an hour and a half I was still driving to London. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what's going on. I'm telling them a series of apps that can be halved, with which you don't have to have too much knowledge or organisational ability that you can do for yourself, and you actually need to incorporate it here. To use such access points, to provide our tourists with a wider picture, to include ourselves in transport systems that are not only going to Croatia but also beyond, and this is this, by plane to Osijek, from Osijek, Serbia, Bosnia, let's not include them in the EU, but we can have those data that are driving there and they should be in this system and at that point of access, and I would pray there, another crackdown, just to find a more sounding name for it all. This national access point is a lot of people, it won't understand what it is, some kind of beautiful name to find out what that app and that system will do and then we use and get as many incoming passengers as possible that will then transit further or di that transition goes on. So absolutely something that I can't admire, and that's why I'm staying here and I'm waiting for this because this is something that will really make a lot easier and help, make a difference, give added value in the quality of life and quality of travel, and especially for us as a tourist country, so all I can say is commendable, I don't know what words to say, go for this bill, if it lives in the quality of life and the quality of travel, and especially for us as a tourist country, so all of this information that we know is a model of inclusion, that people have exact in real time how much something goes, how much something goes, whether the ferry is cancelled, whether it's a closed highway, etc., means that it's one upgrade, but it's important to us that we pick up all these timetables, how much it's really important it's going to be, that all the types of transportation in Croatia now so when we talk about private and the blah-cars more, that it's all that it's possible, that we make it's easier and that we can's easier and that we can're easier to make it easier to make it easier to get one's the first and then, and then, and then, and then, and then it's the key it's really, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then we's going to get it's going to get to get the key to get to get to get it's, and then, and then, and we's not really, and we's, and then, and we's not really, and we's, and we's, and we's not really, we's not really, and we's not really, and we's really, and we's going to get to get to know, and we's not really, and then, and we's the right, and we's really, and we's not really, and we's going, and we's going to get to get the right, and we's not really, and we', and we', and we', and we', and we', and then, and we's going, and we's not really, we', we', we', Once again, all the congratulations on this proposal, and I hope that the sooner and the sooner and the more support it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183353	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Vedran Babic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183354	Thank you, Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on the provision of information on multimodal travels. As was the case with the previous law, so this law also harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. Minister and colleagues have introduced us to the objectives of this legislative proposal and there is no need to repeat them, I will only point out that this law is simply necessary, it is in line with the time in which we live and, of course, is good, precisely because of what core business is in Croatia, and it is tourism because we have to imagine how to meet every tourist, give him as much information as possible, and that from his starting point of view, he can easily reach the destination and get more information. I'm going to look back at the next one, like it's actually working or the multimodal transport system in our country would work. Namely, travel information is based on static travel and traffic data necessary for the purpose of information and planning prior to travel. The multimodal transport system is a combined transport system that connects every road, rail and airway and waterway to create an integrated travel solution. In my replica I looked back and asked the question when we would be able to have the first case of integrated passenger transport or travel because, as my colleague said, public transport, integrated passenger transport is not only public transport but is the largest part of it and it is definitely. Public transport is the future because of a series of circumstances that we are all aware of both in the first place and economically. I just want to know what kind of presentation of our real situation will be when we form this integrated transport or when we give that information and when someone from the outside wants to come to any island and doesn't even have to go to the island, so when they start throwing out combinations from when they land at Franjo Tudjman Airport, so when they see that they have to wait for the bus, I don't know, 15 minutes that will take them to the train and they're waiting there yet, so they're always on the coast or to Plitvica, not at all, so much transfer here, there, I'm afraid that this information will be devastating in our case because there's just not enough synergy of course between the service providers, and in the first place, it would be ugly to say that this is the problem of my authority, it's simply the continuity that there's just no good relationship between local self-government and the relevant ones in this place. Perhaps here, if I continue with the affirmative tone because the SDP club will support this law, I believe when you give that information, so when we face the real circumstances in black, or the real time and space that this information will provide, we will simply be forced to invest as much in infrastructure as possible, in improving the communication of passenger transport, i.e. the foundation of good tourism, because a lot of tourists require a good infrastructure and yet by the arrival of a larger number of tourists we will be able to deal with this transport infrastructure more easily. Here, in order to do that, I want you to establish this system as soon as possible, so that everything starts to work and you have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183355	Thank you very much. Now we move on to the individual debate, he should have spoken to the esteemed representative Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's lost his right to speak, and I'd have concluded the debate on this point and we'd vote on it when the conditions come to pass. We will see each other again on Wednesday, January 29 at 9:30 and the first item will be the draft law amending the Law on the conduct of student affairs with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 823. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 14.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-24-0.u183356	Proposal for a Law on the provision of information on multimodal travel, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 820, Proposer is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on the provision of information on multimodal travel and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of the 111 votes for and 6 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
