ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182392	Good afternoon, everyone. We begin today's session with: - Proposal for a Law on the Centre for Special Care, first reading, P.Z. No. 804 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Health and Social Care. Would the representative of the proposing State Secretary, Ms. Maria Pleikosa, of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy want to take the floor? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182393	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Centre for Special Care was established by the Family Law of 2014 as a public institution in which the activities of representing children and adults are in court proceedings and other bodies in accordance with the provisions of the Family Law. The centre according to the statute is based in Zagreb and three dislocated units in Rijeka, Osijek and Split. The activities of the centre shall be carried out by special custodians, who are lawyers with a legal examination who have additional education in the field of communication with children in the judiciary. There have been some difficulties in its operation since the start of the work of the institution. In view of the need for a clearer definition of the activities of the institution, it has been assessed that it is primarily necessary to improve the legislative regulation governing the centre as an institution, clearer organisation of the composition of the Governing Council and its work, conditions for the director, additional regulation of the expert council, employment of workers. Namely, the applicable provisions governing the centre are not fully elaborated and need to be redefined and further elaborated. Furthermore, certain areas such as expert workers or expert councils are not regulated. It also provides for the possibility of a lawyer with a legal examination. Taking into account international standards of protection of the rights of persons, there are a number of additional actions that require conversation with children and adults. The age of a child or the functional ability of a person requires competences to access them from a psychosocial perspective. Respecting the increasing specificities of court proceedings in which a special custodian is appointed, especially in relation to children, which requires specific expertise and skills-related difficulties associated with the differentiation of the child's rights to express the child's opinion, interest and desire, as well as the need to prevent secondary traumatisation of the employment of other professional workers specialised in conducting talks with children and adults as professional assistants will significantly strengthen the protection of their rights. The Centre for Special Care is a public institution which contributes to the strengthening of the Institute of Special Care, ensures the independent performance of the special guardian’s affairs and prevents future infringements of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In view of the specificity and importance of the activities carried out by this institution as well as the further need to strengthen the quality of child and adult protection, we consider it fully justified for the Centre for Special Care to be governed by a special law. The following is proposed by the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Proposal for a Law on the Centre for Special Care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182394	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182395	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a counselor. I welcome the adoption of a special Law on the Centre for Special Care and I am pleased that you have not accepted the proposal to speak about the Centre for Representativeship. So what is the significance of this Centre for Special Care and Exiting from the narrow legal structure is the fact that you have made a political decision, but also a professional decision to have a special law on the Centre for Special Care. I'm interested in what was said in the debate, so I absolutely welcome that both social workers and psychologists are part of the profession within the centre for special custody, but as a person working on an interdisciplinary team, I think there would certainly be room for social educators, if we look at the powers that social pedagogues are dealing with, so please consider that option until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182396	You can answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182397	Thank you for your objection, Your Honor. I can also say that we have considered this fact and I think that between the two readings we will decide to include other assistive professions in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182398	Second replica, Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182399	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the respected secretary of state, reading this law, the special Law on the custody center, I did not notice in the law itself, when setting up a branch. So far, the centre has been a public institution, an institution with public authority, will now be an institution, so it is independent and is foreseen to be dislocated centres or branches. Can you tell us how many branches would now be provided for by this law? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182400	Thank you very much. I can't answer that right now, but the statute will determine the organisation of new branches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182401	And Mrs. McNally. Strenja-Linić. Ines Fire, excuse me. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182402	Thank you. Coliga Celić beat me to it, but in fact, I also wanted to say that social pedagogues absolutely deserve as an auxiliary one very professional profession that deals with children with the risk of behavioral disorders or behavioural disorders, that they are certainly involved because they are actually capacitated, it is very often about children from families in which it is a very difficult situation, where they are at great risk of being involved in this whole process. It's an exceptional sub-capacitation of the center. So now we already have 250 children per single guardian and they sometimes have daily even, when distributed, 680 cases of court representation, 3 days. How do you mean to resolve it because in this way they cannot do their duty well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182403	Would you like to answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182404	Thank you very much for asking. Well, just by passing this law and statute, we're already planning on hiring, actually, we're planning on hiring more special custodians and by opening up new dislocated units, I think we'll work this out successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182405	Does a representative, uh, want a representative of the board to give an explanation yet? - Here you go, Mrs. President. Ines Shooting in front of the Health Committee. The president of the Health Committee, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182406	I thank the chairman. I welcome you and the representatives of the ministry. Thus, at its 83rd session, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Centre for Special Care in its first reading as a parent working body. The proposer's representative also pointed out how it was done, as the draft law was approached by respecting the increasingly present specific nature of the procedures in which a special guardian is appointed, especially in relation to children, but also adults, represented by the Centre for Special Care. For the quality protection of them and their rights, it is very important to prevent their secondary trauma in the process of obtaining an opinion. Now, in the centres of children and adults in particularly prescribed cases, lawyers with a judicial exam and additional competences for communication especially with children are represented. In this respect, the need to employ other professional workers with special experience, knowledge, competences and skills regarding communication and obtaining opinions is imposed. Accordingly, according to the above, it is now being arranged, the issue of these professional workers, where other than lawyers, will be passed with a legal examination, will be done by a social worker and psychologist with a professional examination. We're also hoping for a social pedagogue. Therefore, during the debate, the committee members expressed satisfaction with the bill's proposal, primarily with regard to the employment of professional workers, as it is currently the biggest problem of the centre for special custody sub-capacitation, and the number of cases is increasing. It also praised the opening of 4 new branches in Virovitica, Zadar, Pula and Varazdin. They think this institute is well imagined and represents a shift for the better. The Ombudsman expressed concern that this is the only way to represent a formal child protection institute and felt that the role of a special guardian was not understood because his role was not only attended by hearings but also direct contact with the child and an assessment of the best interests of the child. The Croatian Association of Social Pedagogues, which also attended our session yesterday, expressed dissatisfaction because the profession of social educators is not included in the draft law in professional workers who would be employed in special care centres, since the core of their education is just communicating with children. Following the discussion, members of the Committee unanimously decided to propose to HS the conclusion that the Proposal for a Law on the Centre for Special Care and all objections, proposals and opinions expressed in the debate would be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182407	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. She's the first lady. Ljubica Maksimchuk in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182408	Thank you, Vice-President of the HS, the distinguished secretary of state with the co-worker. My colleagues and colleagues, today we have a proposal for a Law on the Centre for Special Care. In the Republic of Croatia, the foster care institute is governed by a family law which defines as a form of protection for minors without parental care, adult persons who are unable to care for themselves and persons who are not for other reasons able to protect their rights and interests. The Institute of Special Care in Croatian legislation was introduced in response to requests from the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. A special guardian for a child may be a person who has passed a judicial exam and is employed at the Centre for Special Care. It shall be appointed by means of a resolution by the competent centre for social care or court, primarily for the protection of individual personal and property rights and the interests of the child, i.e. the adult person. The same solution determines his duty and authority. The Centre for Special Care is a public institution whose activity is to represent children and adults in proceedings before courts and other bodies prescribed by the law governing family relations. The Centre shall represent, on the basis of public authority, the adults for whom a proposal for deprivement of a business capacity is submitted for which at least three months is not known or is not available, and there are no proxies in matters which are decided by the provisions of the Family Law of the Protectors where there is a conflict of interest between him and his guardian or close relative or other guardians in property proceedings or disputes or in the conclusion of certain legal transactions, proteges in the case of a dispute or the conclusion of a legal transaction between them when they have the same guardian in other cases where it is necessary to protect the rights and interests of an adult. Taking into account the uncertainty and uncertainty in the applicable regulation governing the structure and the part-time centre, specific areas should be developed or more clearly specified and regulated for the organisation of work. This proposal introduces the possibility of setting up a branch centre, we currently have a headquarters in Zagreb and three dislocated units in Osijek, Split and Rijeka. The proposal for this law shall provide for the activities of the Centre, public-authorised transactions and other professional activities, the composition of the Board of Directors, the appointment or selection of its members, the duration of the Director's term of office, the conditions of appointment, the procedure for the end of the term of office, the replacement for the Director, the Expert Council, the composition of the Council, the powers and the way of work, and the general acts with special emphasis and the way in which they are adopted. This law prescribes a card for professional workers, a job obligation, professional training, obstacles to admission to service, a way of keeping records and documentation, and the delivery of reports to the Ministry responsible for the family and the type of supervision and the manner in which they are carried out. The Director shall represent and represent the centre, organise and conduct the business and professional work, have responsibility for the legality of the work of the centre and shall carry out the tasks of a special custodian in one part. This proposal will also ensure better protection of the rights of children and adults represented by the centre, remove ambiguities in application and ensure better monitoring and improvement of professional work. In view of the above, and in order to continue the work, better quality of the performance of jobs, better quality protection of the rights of children and adults in court proceedings by independent bodies, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the proposal to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182409	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs Nada Turina Đuric's turn in front of the GLAS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Since this Law on the Centre for Special Care is in the first reading, we should focus this debate on making comments as representatives as clubs or to discuss content in terms of possible repairs of this law. As a club, we believe that the decision is correct in the direction of a law that will regulate the work of the Centre for Special Care because when you see the data on the number of items that come before that institution, the centre received a total of 5,635 items during 2017, and in 2018 7,088 items were received. This is a huge, truly huge number, and behind that text means behind that part of the text, which contains data on the number of items that have arrived, I expected that we would also get data on the outcome of these items, or how successful it is in some particular period of time, and I think that there could be at least 2017 data, how much of these items were solved or how efficient the work of the centre itself was, and if it was not efficient enough, the reasons why it was so. In fact, we as a club support steps that go towards better quality work of this center, primarily in terms of protecting children's rights and weaker ones, which is the intensity of this law. However, according to us, the law has not focused enough, or at least that's what the public debate is saying, that the more quality communication of the profession is in a way that the current problems in operation are solved, and what is evident is that the centre is primarily lacking in human resources, and that means people who are from the profession above all lawyers, means custodians and that there are no material or financial means to equip them or to the functionality of these centres. And this question has already been raised since the very beginning of these centers, and I am not sure about it, or it has obviously happened, and so the law has been passed in order to say that something seems to be happening. I think we too think that, above all, there should be sufficient resources and financial and material resources to make the centres work, that the centres are adequately teamed up with the legal profession, of course in cooperation with institutions and institutions that can additionally provide transport to the lawyers in solving these problems, because first of all they are legally, these centres and guardians are primarily legally represented by the users or persons for whom they are in charge, so that we do not see any overstep. In fact, the state or government or ministry could have already made a step in terms of increasing both the resources and ensuring the color of working conditions and creating conditions for cooperation with institutions and professions that are not just legal professions. And that's visible from what we read in the public debate. So, I'd like you to explain to me, so the center that is under your jurisdiction had the most objections to this law, suggests some things that are to me that I have never been directly involved in the work of this kind of activity, but we quite logically sound, most of them still you haven't accepted for just your known reasons. And it insists on a great expansion means professional associates or the possibility of hiring professionals outside the legal profession, who are true God and how useful. However, at this point in time when you cannot solve the underlying problem, and the underlying problem is still judicial proceedings and you do not have enough lawyers, then it is a priority to hire enough lawyers who are adequately educated, in which they are adequately invested in their knowledge that these problems are being solved in cooperation with all other professions of medical, health, social, pedagogical and I do not know which others are not all needed throughout the process. They are needed as a port, but they are not necessarily needed in, to say in this first step of solving the problem, and we problems have de facto not started to solve even because we have thousands of objects I don't know exactly what state of things is right now. I think that the law in this sense, we think in my club, that the law in this sense is not adequately prepared or that the only thing that could be welcomed openly is that the centre will now function more territorially in terms of the establishment of a branch and that it will be better covered ground and that the number of objects that are in the jurisdiction of the centre and the guardians will be better resolved and that they will be able to monitor their more quality, their cases on the ground because it happened as we know and from the inscriptions on the newspaper that the guardians did not simply arrive at individual hearings, that they did not have cars I don't know if they have them now. So there are a whole series of very specific problems that could have been solved in order for the situation to be better. However, the situation is not better seen that from day to day unfortunately we have situations where the rights, human rights and rights of children are seriously violated, where these children are seriously threatened, and I think that the ministry should listen to or hear first of all, quality talk with institutions that are in its jurisdiction, and right here it seems to us, personally, that in this communication through public debate with its centre, the centre means it participates in a written way in a public debate on the law of which it is subject. This tells me about the conflict between the centre and the major conflict between the centre and the competent ministry and some kind of conflict that will certainly not end well for those under whom this law is going or who should solve the problems of those who, which are the subject of the content of this law. I don't know what to say about this law at the end of the whole story because I think this profession that's already had a certain experience of a few years, which is at the center and which has made the most of the remarks should have been more involved, that it should have talked at some table with that center and with those people who run it, and then wrote the law. Because watch out here is in this bill, so in this whole file, it's 10 pages of the bill, and 30 pages of the public debate in which the main challenger of most of the provisions of the law is the Centre for Special Care. That means something with the bill is wrong. I don't know what's gonna happen next. I mean, I'm always about to listen to the waist first. It seems that I always say something is doing something with the most sensitive groups wrong, something to show that something is going on, so there's a new law being drafted, or it's calling for some kind of newspaper that should help those who are in danger in this case, and in reality, it doesn't seem like the right moves for which the government is, and that centre is in charge of already existing provisions of the existing laws. From ensuring adequate conditions to adequate personnel, to education of these staff, to resources to be provided. All of this thing that was possible without this law, I say perhaps the only thing that is real newspapers and what will improve all together is the establishment of a branch or some kind of territorial quality coverage of this problem. So, given that I have said here in principle, certain principle remarks, we will try to see what we can do until the second reading as a club to help propose certain amendments, and I think that the competent ministry should sit back at the table with its centre and see what we can change in this law to help those who need this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182411	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists will be presented by Mrs. Ines Strenja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182412	I thank you and welcome you once again. This is an important law, and that is why I think it is necessary that we all get involved together at this stage if we said this should be regulated, special custody should be regulated by a special law and we should see what these remarks are, which we can do to make the law until the second reading that doesn't have to be quick, really doesn't have to be fast, are adopted. Therefore, in 2015, the Family Law for the first time defined the representation of a child independently of his parents through special custodians who were lawyers with a passed judicial exam and employees at a special custody centre established by the ministry responsible for social care affairs. In addition, the Family Law defines the express duty of the Court to enable a child to express his opinion in family matters in order to exercise his rights and interests as well as the procedure of giving the child's opinion and to determine the right of a child who is focused on expressing his opinion, indeed. So there's this special custodian here. Adults, they are also part of this; they are also meant by this law, represented by a special guardian, are mostly persons for whom the deprivement process is initiated and which special guardian, if possible in view of the health condition of the person, is familiar with the procedure, finding and opinion of the witches and the court solution. Because of the few special guardians, so we are talking about this in particular today as well as increasing the number of court proceedings which, year after year, at 1500 procedures more every year, are being conducted in relation to the child, with children and persons with disabilities, it is not possible to discuss and represent these two most vulnerable groups in society at this time, which are children and persons with disabilities. I'll explain that in detail later. So what's this center doing? The activities are therefore based on public powers, on representation of children in court proceedings and other bodies and other bodies in the process of disputed motherhood and paternity, in matrimonial disputes and other procedures in which parental care and personal relations with the child are decided, in the process of expressing measures to protect the rights and well-being of the child from the jurisdiction of the court, in the process of adopting a solution that replaces consent to adoption, when there is a conflict of interest between the child and his legal representative in property proceedings or disputes, or in the conclusion of certain legal matters in the case of a dispute or the conclusion of a legal transaction between children when the same person exercises parental care, the child of a foreign citizen or a child without citizenship who, without the escort of a legal representative, is found in the territory of Croatia and in all other cases where it is necessary to protect the rights and the interests of the child. The Centre shall represent, on the basis of public authority, adults for whom a proposal was submitted for the depriving of their business capacity, of which at least 3 months. the place of residence is not known or is not available and there are no pronouns, in matters which are decided under the provisions of the Family Law, the protégé when there is a conflict of interest between him and his guardian or close relative or other guardian in property proceedings or disputes, or in the conclusion of certain legal matters, all of this where it is necessary for the protection and right of the interests of an adult. But the two questions that this law has raised, so that's when this law was passed, is like I said, whether it should be passed or should be more detailedly regulated by family law and when and how it was to be passed. In case you should have brought it, I am absolutely on the side of the ministry, I think in this case the duty of a special guardian was to represent the person in the procedure for which he was appointed and it was important that we here have the opportunity to fully clarify and legally regulate the relationship that is actually needed and this is the relationship of a special guardian to those who need to be cared for. As far as law-making is concerned, at this point I think it was still premature. Why? And yesterday on my board, the child's attorney explained it in detail. In your e-consultation you have repeatedly explained that it has not been made, so with a few years away from when this institution exists, a real analysis of what has happened so far, which is deficient because we, as we see really in e-consumption, even those who are doing it, special guardians and that center, a lot of, a lot of remarks have been made, so first of all, should have been analysed, it went quickly into the adoption of the law, quickly in the first reading, and that in fact everything that is currently happening on the ground and not good, is not good because it is inadequate at this point, is not respected. So, we can't say, we have even known cases where after a few years after a special guardian was assigned, he comes to court and that special guardian has never seen a child again. We have a situation where we have conflicting opinions, so the expert has one opinion, a finding of psychologists second opinion, a special custodian decides and saw a child only once or once in a few years, represents quite differently. It is his to work in the best interests of the child and to protect the rights of the child but does he have enough information that such a decision, which he represents and his position, can really and rightly use? So, the reform of the child's procedural position and thus the institution of a special guardian for the child, at national level, was the result of a long-standing effort by a number of family-legal experts who have repeatedly called for years to improve child protection standards in the context of the judicial process, also pushing for the establishment of specialised courts, which we still do not have, the licensing of lawyers who defend children that we still do not have. Founding special professional services in courts, which we still don't have. The need for expert teaming of the Social Care Centre and the systematic education of experts participating in a judicial procedure whose participant is a child. So the D.A. sent a whole series of recommendations to the D.A. The adoption of specific rules governing procedural rules for decisions on the rights of children, the manner of handling of the court and the representative of the child, the necessity of education of professionals working with children, the establishment of a list of experts who would, with their knowledge and expertise, meet the assumptions for a special representative of the child in court and administrative proceedings and the licensing of experts to provide this type of service. So, the arrangement of institutes of special guardians for the child, its classical rights and duties is to represent the child when there is a conflict with the interests of parents, characterizes the continuity of the longer than half a century to be done with the institution. Therefore, our legislation needed to implement the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights in '96. the objective of which is to recognise, respect and respect child's procedural rights, not only declared but effectively in the practice of the bodies deciding on the rights of the child and the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. Did we determine that? No, I don't. So when you have a special custodian who has a year to last year by how many 688 hearings there are, how one person can get to so many hearings. So how can she, if she has 3 hearings a day, when we share with the working days, conduct a conversation with about 250 children she has in her care. It can't be just one conversation, sometimes it takes more, sometimes it's necessary to do it in a parent's home, sometimes it's now decided as we heard in a neutral position because if a child is in a house where sometimes conflicting divorces of a parent that child should be heard on a neutral ground, etc. I can't. And that's why we're going into lawmaking, and we haven't really done all this time what they say about child disease, teamed up and tried to make it more accessible at least to have enough time for that child, and then work on this upgrade afterwards. So, only in 2015 did we define it more precisely with the Family Law, but until today we haven't moved too much. So I'd go back to, so mostly what they said. The centre is not an institution that does no social service, no care has any protégé, no users of social care services. And that's where we have to do a clear distinction. That is why we support the involvement of additional professionals, it is very necessary, but I welcome the good will and respect of attitudes that also social educators who work with children, with the risk of behavioural disorders or with children who already have behavioural disorders, should be involved because such children are in all these processes, in all these procedures, and I think they are necessary to become part of the expert team. So, the ministry's position was that given the importance of putting this, do this and regulate this with a special law, that's what we supported. However, the adoption of the law, as I say, should have preceded a comprehensive analysis of the existing situation, the institution of a special guardian, and it was premature to present it to us today. What's the problem? Territorial availability. So are we and 4 going to have 4 centers now, planning another 4, are we going to make that territorially available? So we'll still have practically completely all of Lika, Senj, down to Zadar that we won't have the whole part at all covered with a special guardian who then has to go, and all there means the courts that they have to come to and represent the children. We think it would be much simpler if these centers were organized at every county level. So where the county court is, there is also a special custody center in the city that we would really make available to those who need it. So, totally banal problems, cars, really, cars are a problem. So if you have several special guardians, and the centre has only one car he can't get to court in small Losinj, in Crikvenica, in Rijeka, in Pula, etc., especially if each of them has several hearings in the course of one day, absolutely impossible. And what's going on? In the end he was supposed to defend himself, expected it from him, he felt frustrated, that child we betrayed as a country because we didn't fight for his rights and actually something that was well imagined falling because of some organizational things, but it was our responsibility. Professional teamwork, like I said, is extremely important. So, education absolutely requires continuous education that we are not sure that in all cases it is done and therefore we think that, with the new law, we expect that, especially before the second reading, you will further explain and strengthen it. I'll mention it again last year, so there were 7,088 items, of which 4.460 were for children, and 2,620 for adults. Even adults should not be neglected, adults need our special attention, especially when it comes to taking away their business ability, but also to increasingly regaining their business ability or restoring part of their business ability. For all of this cannot be done with just one conversation of such a person, or with one conversation of a child, as I have said sometimes, and we heard these remarks happen on the day of the hearing, in the hallway, in front of the courtroom. So, the number of protégés is on the rise right now because they are in the courts, but also because there are absolutely all the other social and all the other circumstances that require that such a person have really one legal protection that we as a state have to give to their families. Therefore, the Family Law defines the express duty of the court to enable the child to express his opinion in family matters in order to achieve his rights and interests, as well as the procedure of giving opportunity and determining his right to express his opinion. Therefore, his special guardian is important as further specified in the rules on how to obtain the child’s opinion. In all the procedures in which a child is appointed, special care parents are not authorised with a special guardian to take work on behalf of the child. And we have to keep that in mind, so these special guardians aren't at the service of parents, they're at the service of children. And that is why it is our duty to fight for these children, which means more special guardians, more centres and their capacitation, or support with all the professionals who can be available to make that legal part, so legal representation the best. For other social services, there is a social care centre, and we will discuss this later in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182413	Thank you, too. The position of the SDP representative club will now be represented by Mrs Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with an associate. The indisputable fact is that in the Croatian welfare system there was an exceptional need for the establishment of the Centre for Special Care as it happened in 2014. In fact, we know that the power of representation of children and adults in front of court proceedings has and still have welfare centres, but because of the asphyxiation simply in the cases, because of the large scope of the job, simply the centres for social care are not, simply impossible, inexplicable to provide quality services to adults and children representing them before courts and other legal bodies and have gone into establishing special centres for special custody. The scope, i.e. the description of the activities of the Centre for Special Care, was the remaining provision, stressing the provision of legal services. So social care centres have a slightly wider range of jobs, legal representation and legal affairs were one small part of it, and social care and a large and wide range of jobs is actually the responsibility of the welfare centre. Specialized services let's call it that, we can put it that way, the representation countries are just these special custody centers. Of course, it has been taken into account that both children are being treated and that in these particularly traumatic procedures per child and in order to avoid secondary victimisation of children but also adults in the proceedings themselves, it has been pointed out in particular that persons who may be special guardians must naturally be lawyers with a legal examination because, if there is no judicial examination, they do not have what practical to do in the court, but that they must also have additional education in the field of communication with children in the judiciary. It means the Kor activity of providing legal services, but taking care of additional competences of education in the field of communication with children in the judiciary. That's what it says in the scoreboard. I don't just know where this special extra education in the field of communication with children in the judiciary went, I didn't see it on the terms of a special custodian, it just says he has to have a judicial exam. I may have overlooked it, I didn't see it right in the law, if that's what it is, it's not normal to have it. Okay, I didn't see it. It wouldn't be normal if it were thrown out because that would mean that you threw it out as a condition that you could open space for something else. All right. Let's move on. So, special guardians, regardless of what we now have, the Centre for Special Care compared to the years before 2014, which we also have certain branches, which we have tried to regionally disperse in order to ensure that all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia have a quality service regardless of which part of Croatia they live and that is something that is commendable. It is also commendable that through this law, we will go to the expansion of this beautiful branch, which we absolutely support. However, the fact is that still social care centres, excuse me, and social care centres, but also special custody centres are actually quite deficient in human resources and that the number of objects that are burdened simply by people who work in them and, with exceptional effort, they simply cannot do it in quality because they are too few. And what is now actually asking me is just as illogical that the centre responsible for this part of the job is the most active in consulting the interested public and contests a good part of the assessment of the effects of the regulations, warns that, so what is the impact assessment of the regulations? That's what my colleague Strenja Linic said. I'm sorry. If you're going to change the law, so it needs to be preceded by evaluations of the effects of the regulations, it's a document that looks at where we are right now, which is not good at the moment, why we have to change, through the estimates we actually need to detect through a public discussion of the rules' impact assessment forms, whether we need to go into changes to the law or not, why we're going to change the law, how much it will cost, and how we're going to remove the existing ambiguities in everything. It would be logical for me to say ok, through this law we are now defining more, hiring more special custodians or lawyers with a passed judicial exam because simply the number of cases we have at this point cannot be solved through 19 employees indefinitely and one employee at a certain time. 20 people at this moment in Croatia can only be special guardians who are employed and we do this... And now, through the law, we're going to make a decision to some government to hire more of these people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But no, we're focusing on two things with this law. One thing is to open a space for the employment of social workers and educators, yes, yes, and then we wanted more but we gave it up, open space and that the director of the centre can be appointed or can be selected person who is a social worker or a educator. But in the meantime, you've given up, and that's what the center warned you about, and it's a good thing that you gave up on it, but it's also a lot of things that drains on law enforcement, and why did you give up on it? Because a person who has met the conditions and could be elected director or director of the centre after the adoption of this law, has reported to the director of the ministry’s administration in a manner that has been taken care of. That's true. Now. It's not good for laws to be passed out of strange motives and in this way. The Director of the Centre can't and shouldn't be a person who doesn't have a clue about the key business that the Centre is dealing with and you wanted to push it through, you wanted to push it, not to be a lawyer, but you wanted to push it, that it could be a psychologist, social, with all due respect to these people, but what kind of competences do they have to run a single centre that is a legal service? It may be appointed Director of the CZSS, thank God you gave it up. And thank God that in a public hearing, the center warned you about that. But what you haven't given up on is that you're actually doubling the job, that you're forced into centres to hire psychologists and social workers and actually law enforcement centres. The courts are the ones who assign a legal guardian, when children are assigned to a legal guardian, these legal guardians already have, children have been through the whole treatment, professional treatment, lawyers who represent them have complete documentation, so the right centre that warns you in public consultation is what you haven't really defined anywhere what these psychologists and social workers are actually going to do. You're saying that they're going to help communicate, but in order for someone to become a legal guardian, he's already in addition to being a lawyer and having a passed judicial exam, he's also got to have special communications competences with these groups that he represents, so I don't know that, here I just don't understand what's actually going on here except that there's going to be a lot of confusion and chaos. It will, it will. So you're in art. For example, in paragraph 18(3), you say, when obtaining the opinion of a child and an adult, informing a child or an adult about the subject of a dispute, on the course and outcome of the dispute, and on meeting a child or an up-to-date person with the content of a decision and timely declaration of appeal, a special custodian shall benefit from the assistance of a social worker or psychologist unless he himself has the expertise and skills necessary for communication. Well, he has to have it in order to be appointed special guardian, which we talked about earlier. That's what we talked about earlier, it's a legal prerequisite for someone to be that person. Please calm Mr. Cellic, you'll have a chance to say on behalf of an individual debate what you think, I'm sorry I took your part, so I'm calming the MP. It means that, yes, the greater expedition of the Centre for Special Care, yes, the employment of even more legal advisers, yes, the employment of even more psychologists, social workers and other professional staff in the CZSS, not in the intervention centres but not in this way where it might have been possible for some to become directors, although, in fact, in their profession, they have no professional relationship with the scope of the institutions that were supposed to be at the head, you will now push them into the administrative council, meaning that, they will have a laundry being, so yes, but look at you in the law, 80% of the law to you, don't be angry about the administrative council and the less part of the law on the profession itself, that's the same thing talking about law intention, too. It means that the profession is protected here and to benefit users then all employment money would be directed to the employment and financing of professional workers, educators, social workers in welfare centres, and lawyers in special care centres. But you see, tomorrow, if this law is passed by a pedagogue or a social worker at the Social Care Center, you think they'll be paid the same for their business as an expert, you think they'll be paid the same as this pedagogogal or social worker who's going to work at the Centre for Special Care? He won't. You know who's gonna get paid more? The one at the Special Care Center. It will be a prestigious, privileged group of people who will be paid more than their colleagues who die from work in welfare centres. Is that fair? It's not. Why do I say they'll be paid more? Because when the Centre for Special Care was established, we had to pay these lawyers with judicial exams more to get them to do these jobs, to get them to work in these public institutions and public institutions, because it certainly wasn't worth it for them to get out of this private section to work here for much less pay. And that's why I'm responsibly here saying that I'm convinced that through the coefficients of these people we don't yet know what they're supposed to be doing here all over the story, and I'm sure they'll be doing a lot less than their colleagues at the welfare center who are falling apart from work. And when there's a problem in the field, and I'm not going to say thank God, but unfortunately, it's more and more, they're the ones pointing their fingers at, and then they're listening to them when they say how impossible it is to work under these conditions. But the state decides not to invest where it's supposed to be, but to invent a double line that already exists in the centers so that the same thing or much less than that would be done by people in some institutions that aren't at all specialized, and only for that, means that money has to be wasted. But that also means that the real problems have not been identified and that it has not gone into investment and amending the law in line with the priorities but some individual interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182415	Thank you. It is now up to Mrs. Dragana Jeckov to speak on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182416	Thank you, Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with an associate. So the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Centre for Special Care, something about the Centre for Special Care which was established as we had the opportunity to hear from the basis of the Family Law and as a public institution whose activity is to represent children and adults in proceedings before courts and other bodies prescribed by the law governing family relations. In practice, this topic should be regulated by a special law and I consider a positive and additional extension of the activities of the centre to other professional tasks related to the representation of children and adults has been demonstrated. In view of the importance and specificity of the operation of the centre, this part should be regulated by law in particular. If we look at the development of a special guardian institute for a child from '47. So far, the work has shown key changes to this institute that have taken place under the influence of international protection of children's rights. The Institute of Special Care in Croatian legislation was introduced in response to requests from the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Taking into account the best interests of the child, it has been decided that the special guardian will assign the child in all procedures in which there is the possibility of conflict and the interests of parents or legal agents and the interests of the child. The child's special guardian shall represent the best interest before the court and shall be appointed by the court or the social care centre in accordance with the applicable Family Law. These procedures include the temporary trust of a child to another person, the withdrawal of the right to live with a child and to trust the day-to-day care of another person, the trust of a child with behavioral problems to assist in the establishment of social care, the resolution of the right to parental care, etc. I believe that any proposal aimed at professional empowerment of centre experts further strengthens the protection of children and adults in court proceedings and other bodies by attaching greater importance to respecting the opinions of these persons. Furthermore, I believe that the arrangement of the centre will allow for a smooth continuation of the activity, i.e. ensuring that children and adults are represented in court proceedings by an independent body, as well as better protection of their rights. Given the specificities of the centre and the possibility of setting up a branch, we expect that just better availability of the centre will ensure smooth work and improvement of organisational and professional issues. In fact, it is also the most important thing of this law, and it is precisely in this part that the biggest and most significant changes are expected. The activities of the Centre for Special Care shall be subject to public authority by representing children in court proceedings and other bodies in the process of disputed motherhood and paternity, in matrimonial disputes and other procedures in which parental care and personal relations with the child are decided, in the process of giving measures to protect the rights and well-being of the child from the jurisdiction of the court. In the process of adopting a solution that replaces consent to adoption where there is a conflict of interest between the child and his legal agents in property proceedings or disputes, or in the conclusion of certain legal transactions in the case of a dispute or the conclusion of a legal transaction between children, where the same person has parental care, the child of a foreign citizen or a child without nationality who, without the escort of a legal representative, is found in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and in other cases where it is necessary to protect the rights and interests of the child. The Centre shall also represent, on the basis of public authority, adults for whom a proposal has been submitted for the deprivement of competences which are not known for a period of at least 3 months or is not available, and there are no proxies in matters in which it is decided under the provisions of the Family Code of Protectors which exist, in cases where there is a conflict of interest between him or his or her guardian or close relative or other custodian in property proceedings or disputes or in the conclusion of certain legal affairs of the proteges in the event of a dispute or the conclusion of a legal transaction between them when they have the same custodian. The Ombudsman’s report shows that the Centre for Special Care faces a number of challenges as well as most social care centres. Of course, among them is the most prominent disproportionate need and available resources. The problem in work highlights insufficient number of special custodians, given the number of cases in which children should be represented by a special custodian. Then the size of the territory covering both the dislocation of individual courts and the lack of financial and material resources. Especially several times here mentioned official cars that are not enough to carry out their activities. They are particularly concerned about the fact that they are not able to attend the hearings at times, and then there is either a delay in the hearing which leads to the length of the proceedings, or because judges do not want to postpone the hearings sometimes make decisions based on the state of the file, allowing the child to be an active party in the process and to realize, thus preventing the child from being an active party in the proceedings and exercising his right to participate. In view of the problems identified, the Ombudsman also addressed a recommendation to the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy. A few important things and several important numbers need to be pointed out here, which is that in 2018 4.468 cases refer to children and 2,620 cases to adults. It is important to say that these figures are increasing from year to year, and to 2014 respectively, this shift is also really significant. We've had opportunities to prepare for the adoption of this law to see that, on these jobs, there are 17 graduate lawyers with a passed judicial exam, 4 administrators and 1 director. So when this little, when you divide the number of cases by 17 graduates with a passed exam, there is a number that approximately every lawyer during the year, each lawyer has more than 417 individual cases or disputes. It's really a very large and very complex job that's really, really very stressful and very stressful. All of this should be taken into account when, when this law is proposed and decided on and certainly should affect the employment of a larger number of lawyers with a legal exam. What is really disturbing to me in preparation for this presentation is the fact that these graduate lawyers with a judicial exam may not have been provided with assistance first and foremost, and they need it most. One way to provide them with help and support, apart from administrators would certainly be to welcome traineeship or traineeship, it should be considered in, and may take into account this in other readings because such experts, when they have someone who will sometimes end up with administrative and easier jobs, will surely, over a year or two, depending on whether it is a training or traineeship, surely acquire certain knowledge and experience that will help them in further work, or I dare say that in some ways they may already have prepared, perhaps prepared people who would be doing the same work tomorrow as their mentors. I urge you to consider this with, possibly consider in the second reading. To date, an analysis of the work of the Centre for Special Care has established that it is necessary to introduce additional dislocated units of the Centre for Special Care with a view to enabling the quality and speed of treatment, continuing the education of special custodians in the development of competences as well as supervisory assistance to special custodians, because it is unimaginable to work without it due to high levels of stress in performing day-to-day jobs. One more thing, I think, is that it is certainly doing the basic, basic, most important detail of this bill is Article 18, i.e. professional workers. I said earlier that I believe that we should certainly work to increase the number of lawyers or to ensure more of these jobs. So I thought that the centre should have psychologists or defectologists, educators as professional workers, but only as an auxiliary body to provide professional help in conducting conversations with a minor child. Also, something that needs to be spoken of openly, I would very much like to hear your position, in your eventual final presentation, the distinguished State Secretary, is that in the public debate, this legislative proposal had a total of 55 comments, of which 47 gave the Centre for Special Care. 26 comments, the proposal was not accepted, 7 was partially accepted, 4 were accepted and 10 was accepted. This concludes that this legislative proposal has been prepared in a way that is not the most respected suggestions for those who do the most concrete and direct work. About that, you know, it's very indicative and it needs to be taken care of, there's room for this bill to change, work, change and make this better. This center is telling us something, and we're ignoring through 26 unacceptable proposals, ignoring his demands. I wonder who we should listen to if not the ones most directly involved. We need to listen to what they tell us, think about it and comply with this bill, we have room in the second reading. I invite you to take all these allegations and predecessors that have spoken about this issue, it is always, of course, interesting that these topics are spoken by women, and this time I point out, rarely which fellow is involved, if not quite out of the profession, but certainly in the second reading should be respected by those who are most professional and directly involved in this work. Ensure the establishment of branches with the employment of people who will work on cases and who will receive professional assistance from the Social Care Centre, where there are the most competent people who will certainly help the lawyers in, during the proceedings and at the very end of the procedure. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS will take into account all that we have had the opportunity to see in the public debate and what it will certainly be, we expect a change in the second reading of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182417	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Željka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182418	I thank the chairman. Here I can partly agree with my predecessors in this debate that the Law on the Centre for Special Care is an extremely important law and what is actually going to be resolved and what is trying to solve is the number of employees that are needed in this center. What we must not forget is that the activity of the centre is exclusively the representation of children and adults in the proceedings before the court and other bodies prescribed by the law governing family relations. If we look at the number of objects that entered the centre through 2017 and 2018 we will understand how small this number really is and that we need a significant increase. I'm glad the ministry is going to expand, I would say the networks of the centre for special custody and will extend them to other parts of Croatia, which will allow better availability of users. We're all talking about how to protect children's rights, improve the quality of their lives, so I think this is one of the essential indicators that goes in that direction. The debate raises the constant question whether or not they need professional associates. Yes, we can, I can say that, given what the centre is for, and that's the representation activity, our most important lawyers are. Therefore, lawyers, other than having passed a judicial exam, must also be very clearly educated in the area they are conducting, which is the protection of the rights of children and adults. Through my particular education, I believe that the vast majority of them, or all of them, have these competences. But in view of modern society, we also have to ask ourselves so little, what else do we need? I believe that centres do their original activity and that they really protect children or adults who need help, but every time you come to court, well, just representing yourself or looking for a lawyer yourself, you know that this is a very stressful situation, especially for children and adults who do, for those adults who need a special guardian, and therefore I think that professional associates in this situation should be a great help to those who represent them. So, apart from social workers and psychologists being foreseen here, maybe this activity should be extended to social educators because we know that they are a very important part, not only of the judicial system, education, education, but also of many other parts of our society. Why would I think that? Here, this is my personal point of view, which is guided by, and I have brought this in fact on the basis of the Regulation on obtaining the child's opinion which clearly tells you that it is important to prepare the child in terms of informing the child, on the right to express the child's opinion, the assessment of the child's maturity and ability, the assessment of the child's cognitive ability to shape and express his opinion, and the expression of the child's opinion. So, personally, I think that all these professional associates could be extremely helpful in the further work of our special guardians. It is certainly worth mentioning that about 250 items involving children are going to one guardian. Let us not forget that children are the most sensitive population and that 250 objects per person is an extremely high number. So here I am, glad to go in the direction of spreading this network, to really hear the needs of our society, and also let's not forget that through these litigation disputes we must certainly avoid the secondary victimization of the child himself, and therefore we certainly support these changes, and all those constructive proposals that have been made in this debate I believe that you will consider them and that surely in the second reading we are going with one, with new additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182419	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. The first replica was sought by Mrs. Maskichuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182420	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, we all agreed in today's debate that we have a small number of employees compared to the number of items this center receives. We saw that 7,088 items were received in 2018. We also see that the proposal of this law, that other workers, or social workers, psychologists and educators, can be introduced, but I believe that they can only be introduced as professional assistance, because we see that in particularly complex procedures, it must be this and remain the centre of law with a professional examination because it alone can represent children or parties in the judicial proceedings it leads. So here I agree, of course, that experts are being introduced, but of course the focus and number of professional associates that need to be increased must be lawyers with a professional examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182421	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182422	Here I thank my colleagues, of course they should primarily be lawyers with a legal exam and all the necessary education. But I certainly need to continue to believe that all the professional associates needed in all these processes should be. And here is the proposal one was to take the trainees who could possibly further educate themselves as I personally think that in this way we could also keep them in the centers and get an educated person with a completed law school who could continue to do so after his training.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182423	Another replica has Mr. Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182424	Proposal for a Law on the Centre for Special Care, First Reading, P.Z. No. 804. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a Law on the Centre for Special Care and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 85 for and 30 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182425	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Josic, I am sorry that some political debates, so of the 24 employees, are currently 19 lawyers and will remain so. And these assistive professions we would like to have people who are highly qualified but are not in all systems, they are missing even in one Germany, let alone in Croatia. To speak in such a way that it could serve to entrenched some social workers and psychologists, it is indeed an exultation of that profession, people who meet people daily in need, and such insinuations make me sad. I believe that the Law on the Centre for Special Care is something good, something that will allow people and the mentoring system of current lawyers working in these centres to have as many qualified experts as possible, and that is why it needs to be set up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182426	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182427	I fully agree with you fellow Cellic, you come from a profession that is perhaps the closest and perhaps the best you can understand this problem. I think that we can all agree that lawyers do their jobs, that they represent, and all those professional services that we need in all systems, both here and at this center, can only use their advice and their work. So here I am, in any case, supporting this and certainly professional associates should be involved in the work of the Centre for Special Care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182428	We're moving on with individual debates. Now it's Mrs. Ines Strenja's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182429	Thank you. I'm going to make a few more remarks in an individual debate because I think this is an important law, as I said, and I think the ministry's position that special custody should be regulated by a special law is justified. However, the adoption of the law really needs to be preceded by a comprehensive analysis of the existing situation, an existing institute of special guardians, and I think it was primarily necessary to wait for a new Family Law, and then go into the making of this law. With the draft Law on the Centre for Special Care, it was necessary to define the activities of the Centre and its powers more clearly, since it is unclear what specific tasks it performs and can carry out only by stating the provisions in accordance with the law governing family relations, and we expect a new Family Law. The relevant Family Law states, among other things, that the Centre for Special Care represents children in court proceedings and other bodies in accordance with Article 240. Family law. In view of the doubts expressed on the role and effects of the work of special guardians, in particular in view of the number and material technical sub-compatibility, we consider that, prior to the adoption of the new regulation, it is necessary to examine the situation in detail, to evaluate the work of the centre so far, and to take action for further empowerment on the basis of the outcome of the evaluation and with the participation of the representatives of the Centre for Special Care in drawing up the draft law. In doing so, I believe it is necessary for the law to regulate and in practice to ensure conditions for the uniform and efficient implementation of the activities of the Centre for Special Care and all of this could be done all this time and done before the Family Law was passed. We didn't need a law to empower the center. So better territorial availability is needed, as we see it will also be done with branches, professional teaming with a number of special guardians with insurance and support from professional workers. I am pleased that you accept the proposal to enter this team and the social educator, with special knowledge, means a person who will contribute to their knowledge and competences and skills regarding communication with children and the achievement of the child's right to participate in the processes concerned, needs better equipment that is not now good, suitable rooms for working with children, official vehicles and education, means the continued need. In particular, the provision of Article 241 of the current Family Law of 2015 clearly provides for the activities of the Centre for Special Care, and therefore this law misstates the activity of the Centre, as I said, contrary to the provisions of the applicable Family Law which clearly defines the activities. These misstatements therefore lead to the erasure of the provisions of the activity in which a special custodian acts in accordance with the applicable Family Law. The provisions of the law therefore comply with the provisions of the Family Law, legal uncertainty and loss of the rights of children and adults to represent themselves in status rights. Namely, the sentence that it represents children and adults in front of courts and other bodies in accordance with the law governing family relations is bad and wrong and challenges a large legal gap leaving out status issues. For example, Article 345. The family law clearly indicates and differs family matters from the status issues governed by the provisions of the Family Law. Such a prescribed definition of activity has left out the conduct in deprivation and return to business skills, which is contrary to the Family Law, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. So I think this law should have waited. A comprehensive analysis should be preceded, and as we see it done, because special guardians are extremely frustrated. I've visited some centres, I've talked to them, I've talked to them this morning, and it's clear to me that they want to do everything right for those they care about, but in a way that they have a few hundred hearings a year, that they have 380 people who care about one special guardian, 250 of which makes it impossible for them to do what they've been chosen for, or why they're in that workplace. It was absolutely during this period that their number should be strengthened without opening branches, their material capacity to have available and vehicles with which they can visit all these courts where they must represent children and adults and all of this is what we could do to make this institute more efficient. I hope that during this time, I do not expect a quick second reading, but I expect you to stop talking to all those who want to contribute to a better law and then in the second reading that we have what we need. Although I am saying, I am showing great concern because I think that for the first time clearly defined is the institute of a special representative of the Family Law and now we should wait for this new law to be familyed, and then go into regulation by the law of this institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182430	Thank you, too. Now it is up to Mr. Ivan Celic who also has his individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182431	Thank you. So before us is the proposal for a Law on the Centre for Special Care in First Reading. I have carefully followed the debate and I can say that the biggest problem, but also the greatest wealth in any system was educational, whether health care, was social, and unfortunately those people would have been educated, we need to spend some money and everywhere we have a problem with the lack of professional staff, but I think this passing such a law contributes to having as many highly qualified experts who know how to do their job. I'm going to look back here at one situation that is related to drug decriminalization, so there are three concepts of depenalization, decriminalization and de jurisprudence. I welcome the decriminalization of drugs in the sense that they're more severely sanctioned dealers, not those offenders who get caught with one or two joints in their pocket. However, we have come to the situation that, apart from the county judges, municipal judges have begun to prosecute crimes so we have encountered the problem that they impose relatively low penalties on those who resell drugs and that is one of the problems currently present in Croatian society and that can be answered by the education of these judges of municipal courts who judge such crimes. A similar situation is also here, if we compare some laws from other EU member states, what was also stated in that 9th part of the Family Law, which provides for the establishment of a special care centre where it is stated that a lawyer must have the expertise necessary to communicate and obtain opinions whether it is children or whether it is adults. In German law, for example, it says that there must be evidence of education in the field of law, pedagogy or psychosocial field. So now I'm asking how many people like that and those highly qualified lawyers? Unfortunately, we do not have many, but with the very establishment of a special custody centre, we already have people who have been working on this problem for several years now, and we are certainly better today in 2020 than it was when the ministry proposed that within the Family Law, the establishment of a Centre for Special Care as a Public Institution. I see this law as a step forward in improving and in this staffing primarily, but also in a material sense. We're aware of the problems that are happening, we're aware that the cars are missing, that these administrative workers are missing as well. If you look at the situation, one special custodian in Germany who handles two complicated cases gets a fee that is greater than the monthly salary of a special guardian in the Republic, but that is our reality that we can establish and all work together to change the situation. Objections that this law has many points concerning the powers of the Director, the powers of the Board of Directors, the expert council that is equal to the situation for me when we took a step forward, when we were doing the adoption of the Law on Psychological Activity, the socio-pedagogical Activity, the activities of social work, and some of them commented on it is not the law on the activity of social work but on the chamber of social workers, and so does the remark, although I think it is most optimal to be a lawyer. Personally, I don't think it's necessary for a lawyer to be the director of the Special Care Centre, like I say, I'm going to pull the parallel with the healthcare system that I come from, so it's most optimistic for me to be a doctor who's going to have assistant economists and lawyers, but it's not necessary to be a doctor of some medical institution, so that this remark doesn't stand. It is important that a special custodian be exclusively a lawyer with a legal exam. The question is how do you get lawyers with a legal exam that will come into a system like this and that will enrich this system, it's much, much more important. The question of whether it should be in the law that out of the three members of the Governing Council must be the founder's representative elected President of the Governing Council, we can troublesome it. I think what the secretary of state at the outset pointed out was that they were already considering the option that social pedagogues would be along with psychologists and social workers who would help graduate lawyers and I believe that this would be changed by the second reading because if we see what the social educator is doing and assessing early intervention, prevention, promotion of mental health, counseling whether the socio-pedagogue was psychotherapy, then I certainly think that it is absolutely desirable for legal assistants to be both social educators and psychologists and social workers. But I agree with what my colleague Glasovac said that even in welfare centres, she needs more of that kind of helper's call as well as in my hospital. I have a working therapist in my department who only works two hours a day, and it would be optimal to work eight hours a day. We need to share a working therapist in multiple departments, that's ours for real. We should all try to keep these assistive calls as much as possible in the system and social care centres and the health system that works with people with disabilities. So anyway, I welcome the adoption of the Law on the Centre for Special Care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182432	The first line was requested by Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182433	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague. We are all aware of the roles of the Centre for Special Care and I think we all support the adoption of this law today, but I ask you as a profession that is related or close to the proposed expert associates that will enable the employment of centres based on this new bill, so please what do you think and how do you interpret the possibility of introducing and other professional associates in the centres for special custody? Is that good or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182434	Answer, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182435	Well, one of the proposals was for special custody centres to be renamed representation centres. I think that would narrow it down... to everyone, so the concept of special custody is not an idea that is inherent to the Croatian social system but exists in other EU member states and I think it will strengthen the centres for special custody. And just another association that came to my mind, of this large number of remarks from the Centre for Special Care would be interesting to see if this was directed by the current director or by several of those professionals who are currently working at the Centre for Special Care. I don't think it's necessary to accept all the proposals, they're being considered, and I believe competent people have considered them. What could have been accepted was accepted, what could have been partially, in part, what could not have been accepted could not be accepted because it was not in the spirit of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182436	The second line has Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182437	Dear Vice-President, the respected representatives of the ministry, Honorary Representative Celic. I see you understand the problem, clearly because it is also your area of action professionally. Is the draft law on special custody a little confusing, or should the formulation be changed to a legal representative because the special guardian is primarily a legal representative with special expertise?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182438	Here you go, Mr. Cell, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182439	Well, maybe you could ask a spelling expert, but I think a special guardian is something that's already been addressed as a technical term. So I don't think there's anything special to change about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182440	And Mrs. McNally. Jeckov has a third line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182441	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Cellic. In the first part of your presentation, you referred to the serious problem of drug abuse among young people, and it is always good to remind and believe that as an expert in this area, you have made no doubt a contribution to the reduction and reduction of drug abuse and even the problem of drug abuse among young people. In one part you mentioned the problem of the lack of professional experts dealing with this particular topic. In my presentation, I highlighted one of the alternatives to address this problem, which is to help, i.e. the recruitment of trainees, trainees with graduate lawyers with a professional exam. I wonder what you think of that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182442	Mr. Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182443	Here, I agree with you because, as my colleague Strenja quoted a scientific article by Professor Rešetar as talking about how specialised courts should be established, how to license lawyers who specifically represent children, to set up special professional services at courts, better professionally team up social care centres, so in this context I certainly see a place of trainees in such institutions that in perspective might also continue to work if they show good, and wherever they go into the system, they will have some, some kind of additional knowledge, say a trainee at the Centre for Special Care, if they go to work at the Centre for Social Care, it will be very, very high-quality. So there are those ideals that we have to strive for, and that's, let's say, establishing specialized courts. Everyone knows about Lana Friday Kujundzic, a judge who specializes, but unfortunately we don't have much in Croatia, we should try to make more of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182444	Now it's time to discuss Mrs. O'Donnell. Milanke Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182445	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Whether this institution will be called a special guardian or legal representative I think is less important, it is important content, what they really do and I am glad that in these, what, 4 years, how much does it work or 5 centres so for special custody, that they have proved necessary, good and justified. The fact is that we have a shortage of personnel everywhere, and these centres are founded with a minimum number of people, with, of course, year by year in search of new employees, and I think it's much better to give opportunities to younger people who have a lot of enthusiasm, who are willing to learn, invest in themselves, in their knowledge, these are not easy procedures, they're very difficult, complicated, these are human fates with which you, as well as people at the Social Care Center, go home every day to sleep, so I think maybe those younger ones who have a lot more energy and enthusiasm would be much better off giving them a chance when they take a judicial exam to be employed at the centres for special custody. The fact is that people need to be educated, they all finish certain colleges, but what they do, so working with children, working with people with disabilities, so with people who are adults, who often decide to take away their business ability, whether, in part, you need some specific knowledge. So at the very beginning, special guardians passed the professional interdisciplinary training of communication with the child in the judiciary in cooperation with the Faculty of Law in Osijek, which has an international license. Unfortunately, this kind of education has stopped with the coming of Minister Bernardica Juretic, and I don't know if you continue with that kind of education, I think it's extremely important that people continue to be educated in that part of how to talk to children, how to approach people who have certain, so to adults who have some difficulties and how to get the best possible to say so, an opinion on their position so that the position can then be defended in the judicial process. So, the special guardian is exclusively, I would say, some kind of state-run child lawyer or lawyer for adults who have certain problems and who cannot therefore defend their own rights and those people exclusively in court defend the interests of that type of user. That's why I don't think it can be won or decided on the child's fate in court, and then the court, the special guardian says I haven't been able to talk to the child. It just can't be. Or the court procedure has to stop until this conversation is done, and a special custodian, if he's been so overworked and hasn't arrived, has to find time and have that conversation. So that's what they are for, they do, what you said, work for a coefficient in the state administration, lawyers work for an attorney's tariff that's far higher, but equally when a child is found in the divorce trial, his right, none of the lawyers, neither side represents, and that's why the Centre for Special Care was introduced, that there is one professional person who will defend the interests and rights of the child in court. When not working professionally, when decisions are not made, when avoiding taking certain types of responsibility, of course not every time easy, then the consequences when people grow up, when they become adults, sometimes very difficult and should be kept in mind, the social care system is very sensitive, it's working with the most sensitive population, it's very problematic often, and yes, there's a fine line between what the state has to enter, and where the family story and some family law, a thin border, but I think with education that needs to be continued for all experts, and for the people at the Centre for Special Care, but also for the people who work at the Social Care Center I think there can be a lot of better results. I see that you are introducing, so in addition to the lawyers who are the only ones with a legal trial who can go to court, which is also the purpose of the Centre for Special Care and defend the interests and rights of children and adults, so you introduce psychologists and social workers, but I think it's a small parallelism with the Standard for Social Care, so they're always looking for the help of the Centre for Social Care because they simply can't do otherwise, they're tied up, tied up vessels, so the centre has the same kind of people that they're dealing with in court alone, so a special guardian. Thus, they still use all services, psychologists and social workers from the Social Care Centre. I don't know what it's gonna look like. that a special guardian who goes to court and defends the child's interests tells the social worker now you go talk to the child and then I go to court and defend it. I don't know what it's going to look like, I think it's a lot more authentic when you go to court to have a conversation with a child, you know exactly what you heard from him and then you present it in court to best protect his rights, but in that part it seems to me that I don't know how much more expensive this is going to help, I think it's a lot better to go down the road that someone here from the speaker mentioned before, which is to try more to invest in material assets that help cars and everything that these people need to get on the ground to go to, to the family and see and talk to a certain user, as well as to hire more people because they really are loaded, there are a lot of cases on their back, and they really have to talk to each person and it's not something that looks good day, goodbye, but it's really something that's really something that's really going on quite going on. Not to say that people who have certain mental disorders are often in certain dangers, so that's what this job does as well as the people at the Social Services Center, so quite, quite heavy and I think the pay they get for that job is extremely small in fact for everything they do. I think they're important, here we look more or less at children because we're all sensitive to them, but I also think we should say that adults who often because of their illness are subject to manipulation remain without their property, take away their business ability, turn them into plants, lock them into certain institutions just so that someone who can get to the property, anything that matters to him, the special guardian is right there to protect those rights and I think if we look at some numbers, the number of these are reduced, that kind of manipulations because now there's someone who's going to say no, it's not like that person to completely take away his business ability, to turn him into a plant, so we can take away his business ability, I don't know, that he decides about his health or something else, but we don't have to completely diss him out of everything, so it's something that we're also one big shift, and that we're in some way that we're completely satisfied that we're going to get there, and we're completely comfortable, and we're completely there, and we're completely happy, and we're completely happy, and we're really, and I think. So here, I am glad that even in this debate today, somehow, unlike some other debates, we all agree that the Centre for Special Care, however we call it, should continue to exist, that it should be strengthened with human resources, it should be strengthened perhaps, and financially, and unfortunately with the staff we are troublesome everywhere, if the situation with child psychiatrists is still the same as it was a few years ago, we don't have children's psychiatrists, it won't be as much known to occur to these specializations either, so we have a lot of problems to talk about, and I would love to have a little more discussion in this room, as we are discussing today to look for solutions, and not to constantly insult and mud ourselves and ultimately leave a very ugly picture of parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182446	Thank you. The first replica has a Mrs. Crescent. Shots fired.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182447	Thank you. I would be interested in your opinion as, as former minister, whether you think that some analysis and improvement should have been preceded, continued improvement in the situation in these centres for special care, whether it should have preceded the creation of this family law that is being announced and would have wanted to say that these professional workers who are being introduced now do not think that they will work in a way that they work with children, so that they can only transfer and I think that what I understand they will be someone who will allow better communication to lawyers who are still lawyers, and yet here it is about psychologists and social workers who are slightly differently educated to work with children regardless of what these lawyers have been through certain educations. Maybe I didn't emphasize enough that I really read a lot, and this is what Professor Rešetar wrote about me. and quoted in one particular section, but I think she talked a lot about these relationships and that she should be read, especially those who work [[Intruder: Thank you]] to make this bill. [[Thank you, ma'am. Shots/]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182448	Thank you very much. The answer to Mrs. Crescent's It's a tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182449	Thank you, Mrs. Strenja, I think that I should primarily go to a certain professionalization, and I still think that people who are lawyers at the Centre for Special Care should go through all the necessary education, but also have to go to the judges, so I can't judge the judges who are a little land-licensed, a little property law, a little this, a little bit of that, and then judge a little in family relations, and then when I make the wrong decision and I make a decision that's going to cost the kid a lot tomorrow, so you see, I didn't know what he would do. So, no, I'm here to finally go to family courts, to start in the education of judges, and what Colic said, we have one or two judges who are trained to work with children that can really judge the way, you should primarily protect the child's interest. It often doesn't happen, and we're witnessing things ourselves, not to comment on some publicly available cases now, but once again I'm going to say, when Bad decision to make [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] It has a strong effect on the child. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182450	Mr. Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182451	Thank you very much. I am pleased, and I am very clear to my fellow Opačić that you have come forward for this individual debate because you have actually established the Centre for Special Care based on the Family Law 2014 and I believe, in the best interest. However, when you take a phonogram from that time you will actually see that at that time and in the debate people were talking about exactly what you are now giving forte and what I agree with because yet this center has been for six years now, so the people who are working in it are doing a good job. However, a colleague of Sabina Vosovac today also said that she... the Centre for Special Care is a legal protection for children and older persons deprived of their business skills. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A person with a judicial exam will be admitted today, in the attorney's office, in court or anywhere has far more pay than at the Centre for Special Care. When you see the number of cases of permanent service, 69 and 34 municipal courts, it is a question of the quality of representation those people in the courts. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182452	Thank you very much. Answer, ma'am. It's a tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182453	Regardless of what they have lower wages than others and not being paid by the bar fees, I think those people really do their job well and if they were hired a little bit more and they invested in their education, I think it would really be a centre that would fully justify their existence, I think it's already now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182454	Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182455	Dear colleagues, Opacic. So, the question of the Centre for Special Care, I have already mentioned, the question of a business ability solution is something positive that should be commended, which you did while you were acting as a step forward in rights and children and persons with disabilities. I would point out here that it is an important interdisciplinary approach. Namely, the co-operation of the Centre for Social Care and the Centre for Special Care is almost on a daily basis, but you have a situation where the Centre for Social Care is a proposing for the appointment of a special custodian and then consulting with a psychologist or social worker from that center is a conflict of interest. So, then, these psychologists and social workers must not give their opinions, but what should certainly be stressed, that it is always necessary to listen to the child's opinion, to take it into account when making a decision, but to take care to distinguish the child's will, means its subjective interests from objective interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182456	- Mrs. Crescent. It's a tail, it's an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182457	I agree with you co-worker Celic, therefore, that is why I think it is necessary to continue to educate these people precisely because of this in order for them to be able to talk to the child of 2 years and 5 and 7 and 11 and to distinguish what you said and get a real real picture, and if they can't in the center, you know, there are in the city and the Poliklinic for protection, there are some other associations in other cities, so there are a lot of experts and outside the systems with which they can cooperate and they work neatly and cooperate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182458	- Mrs. Crescent. Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182459	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. I personally believe that, in my debate, I pointed out, that psychologists or defectologists or educators should be held as professionals only as auxiliary, helping a special custodian during and conducting talks, among other activities. In the public debate, numerous criticisms were precisely at the expense of the interference of the social care centre and the centre for special representation. I wonder, do you think this way, if the Centre for Social Care had just intervened as an auxiliary body, that they would indeed help in such a way or that you feel that new employment is needed?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182460	- Mrs. Crescent. It's a tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182461	I think that, therefore, we said that there are very few experts in this entire area, so I think we should use everything and use people all, so associations and certain polyclinics and parts of the health institutions and employees of the centre, they all help each other simply because everyone for them can't do it alone. I think that there should be a lot more hiring lawyers here, my opinion is still that because they go to court, they're burdened here, so they won't be able to go back to some court case, here I think it was better to go in that direction, but if the decision is such that two other support groups get hired, here I would just like it to sort of work well at the Centre for Special Care.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182462	And at the end of the day, A voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182463	Dear colleagues, Opacic. I agree with you in the part where you question double jurisdiction, in fact the same jurisdiction and welfare centres and the one that is trying to introduce itself into special intervention centres. And I agree, even now, with what you've said in your replica. I believe it is necessary to invest in a number of experts, meaning social workers, educators, social educators, psychologists, social care centres, means better teaming them better, and better teaming up special representation centres with a number of lawyers because hiring psychologists and social workers in these centres will not reduce the number of cases and make the number of people more accessible. And we will if we hire them at the welfare centers, and we hire lawyers here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182464	Thank you very much. Answer, ma'am. It's a tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182465	Yeah, well, that's exactly what I've been trying to say all along, yeah, I think that these people are much better employed in welfare centres and at the very Centre for Special Care, so lawyers who go to, to the hearings and who are often the problem because it's so much better for them and that part of them not to make it, and I'm going to say this once again, it's gonna be hard to cooperate in this way, people who are special guardians are already educated those who are now working, and these new ones you're going to have to seriously educate to talk to children and when they get the child's will, they can only be authentic and defend in court.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182466	Now the debate has Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182467	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected secretary of state with co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues, so the intensity of this law is that the centre with public powers grows into an institution and we should actually talk about it, but we used all of this opportunity to talk about the Centre for Special Care, the problems they are actually meeting and how in the best possible way to address children's rights and the protection of children, as well as adults who have been deprived of their business ability. So it should be remembered that this centre was founded in 2014, so it's been working for 6 years now. By the basis of the Family Law, however, certain things were then arousing, so there were changes and additions to the Family Law and in 2015, you know that he was sent for the assessment of constitutionality because of certain things that happened then, until today that part was not resolved, but the Centre for Special Care continued to do his job, I say to the benefit of its users and it should be recognised that so, I hope in a very good way. The Centre for Special Care as such has 12 extremely difficult tasks or very sensitive tasks, they have been well spoken of by a colleague of Jeckov and has actually listed all these tasks related to the proceedings before the courts for children, from the dispute of motherhood and paternity in matrimonial disputes and other proceedings, in the process of expressing the measure of protection of personal rights and the welfare of the child in the process of adopting solutions that replace the termination of adoption, etc., etc. I don't want to pick it up now, and every item is important. However, it should be remembered that in fact these sensitive tasks in our society have caused a number of sensational things that have happened to media courts, especially in the protection of children. I will not mention them in particular, but remember the case from Split where the mother of the Croats is, and Father Italian is now reportedly from Sisak where the father of the Italian, the mother of the Croats, remember the case in Zadar, all of these ruthless events in media exhibited persons, and then more or less we attacked the Centre for Social Care without taking care of it, not taking care of the fact that the court is the one that brings the solution, and the Centre for Special Care and the people at the Social Care Centre are conducting those solutions. Often and what my colleague Sabina Glasovac said, and also colleague Jeckov today, very traumatic for, for the children themselves, and I agree with that. So, without repeating these tasks, I'm glad that my colleague Jeckov mentioned them, I think that's good, but here's something that maybe we should think about. So, the center today as such by proposing this law in the first reading, I hope also with certain improvements that we have heard here today that may occur until the second reading, so remains the institution and, of course, must bring certain acts for the institution itself. However, there remains a problem with what the Kor business is, according to counterpart Glasovac, this centre, it is legal protection. Anyway, most of it should actually be lawyers with a judicial trial because they represent these people in court. Now, in the very explanation of this law, you cited as a proposing the exact number of items in 2017 and 2018. And I'd like to trouble you here. Therefore, from 2017. There were 5635 items and when you divide them by the number of employees, then 19, it turns out that they had 296 items per such employee, almost daily they had to solve one item. The question of quality is now being asked, how and in what way, colleague Jeckov said that because of the lack of inability, I don't know, vehicles or arrivals to these individual courts some solutions were being made alone, and there was no special guardian, which is even worse for children. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It was 7088, when you divide it with 19 employees, it's 373 items per employee, so one per day and more than one per day. Now, when you see 34 municipal courts or 69 permanent services, for example in Split-Dalmatia County, so 3 special custodians must go to several municipal courts or permanent services if you want from Dubrovnik, Metković, Ploč, Obuzen, Imotski, Vrgorac, Sinj, Trogir, Kaštela, not to mention islands on Hvar, Hvar and Supetar. How and in what way? First, technically they can come and attend, time to do this quality, in a quality way and represent any such case in court, very difficult. See, for example, this section of Slavonia or Osijek where we have a dislocated service with 4 employees who have passed a judicial exam because they cannot represent otherwise, so here from Osijek you have County, Vinkovce, Vukovar, Nova Gradiška, Slavonski Brod, Virovitica, Požega, Beli Manastir, Donji Miholjac, Požeg, etc., so very difficult, this should have been considered. When I was speaking, say, from the time of 2014. It's actually been talked about. What my colleague Opačić says, I agree, why not, the centre has come to life as such, if it is necessary and has fulfilled its obligation and its task, if it is a quality representation of children's rights in this case of persons deprived of their business skills, then we have to strengthen it, so it's hard to increase pay, it's not attractive for those employees in the Special Care Centre itself, they should be very well teamed up, they should have their mobile teams when certain things happen, I say which we may forget today, and they caused a sensation in our society, and then we were all sensitized for such cases, and we didn't really talk about these people. So, people who work at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, if we only saw the number of laws concerning the Ministry itself and what the employees of the Centre for Special Care do, it is extremely large, but also sensitive work. We ask all these employees literally every point in law enforcement, and we know that they work with living people, traumatized people, and in situations where it's very difficult to make decisions without a certain professional analysis and people who can follow it. These representatives may be here in the Croatian Parliament who do not know it I would like them to be familiar with such cases and to follow one such case from the beginning to the end, so they would see that it is an extremely difficult and complex job, of course where there is both subjective and objective responsibility, but I am sure of the good intentions, a bona fide for those who do it primarily when it comes to children. I am convinced that all these employees are doing a good and quality job and deserve our respect. Especially when you see this number of objects and the number of people who work at the Centre for Special Care, then we really need to ask ourselves, for God's sakes, how much of these people are making an effort to spend with each object individually and even if we have to overlap certain things that the centre should do, in order to subport the Centre for Special Care and not waste time on it, then we need to consider that until another reading, if there are such things, then they need to be changed and defined differently. Otherwise, when we talk about the Centre for Special Care, we must also bear in mind that if we do not do this second part of the administrative, technical, however and better teamwork, we will find it difficult to reach the level that we all seek, which is that all those who have procedures in municipal courts or permanent services actually get one adequate, and primarily quality protection for those who actually represent in municipal courts or permanent services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182468	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first one's a respected MP, Maximchuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182469	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues have all agreed in today's debates that we have a small number of special custodians in relation to the number of items they have at the Centres for Special Care, but you have also touched on the overlapping of the responsibility of the Centre for Social Care and the Centre for Special Care. So how do you feel about this second reading delimiting that jurisdiction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182470	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182471	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maximchuk, this is what came from today's debate what you're saying. Paralysms are no good, so do something that the centre does, for example, ask for the child's opinion and that it's still a special guardian, I don't think it's good, I think the centre is so teamed that its opinion should be taken as a quality and professional opinion. On the other hand, we're doing an extra job, so extra work and special guardians, which is actually not good, and we should think about it. At times, it seems to us that, for example, social care centres need to fill a certain form because the subject has come to the welfare center as such. But believe me, it's not like that, that employees at the welfare center are watching out because any detail that they miss can sometimes be fatal or cause new traumas, which is certainly not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182472	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Jackov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182473	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Babic, I thank you for quoting me several times and I just want to point out again that one of the, in fact, biggest problems of the Centre for Special Care is sub-capacitation. From year to year, we have an increase in the number of cases and, as I said in my presentation in 2018, we have 4.468 cases relating to children and 2,620 cases for adults, divided into 17 graduates with a legal exam of 417 cases in the dispute, which involve several, each disputed several hearings. That's exactly the sub-optimation the D.A. has warned about. equality, okay. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182474	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182475	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Jeckov, we don't need to go back in time, but we warned then, in fact we should have thought about the Centre for Special Care and Social Work in the Republic, I would like it to be decentralised. So, not to work with the level of the ministry, they can monitor it, but to decentralize it from municipalities, cities and counties and for this case that was now in Krapina actually shows it. So, it gives you certain powers of the county, surveillance must be done by the ministry, which is very difficult, and there would be a lot to talk about. So I'd like that decentralisation to happen. Then we talked about whether it was better for lawyers to represent each individual case in these district or permanent services and municipal courts or if we had a center. Of course, the center, the center can work much better if it was teamed up, kept records, had a certain practice, from these practices arises and certain knowledge, etc., but now you can see that it's a problem by the number of cases. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182476	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Snježana Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182477	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In times of frequent changes and addition of laws, we are constantly fighting indefinite and undefined legal provisions. Undetermined legal standards, unfortunately, result in different interpretations, resulting in the colorful court practice that often brings our country's citizens into an unequal position. What is missing from the proposed law is an insight into existing practice based on which, if there were cooperation with the practitioners that apply the law, surely some solutions were better. When the current Family Law was passed, the lack of the law came into force very soon after the adoption, by delaying the application of certain provisions. Do we have to repeat the same mistake every time to determine that it was actually a mistake? As we have already had, unfortunately, frequent opportunities to hear that social workers and underprotected we hope and should adopt this law as appropriate and better protection and for their work. Social work is a profession based on humanistic ideals and human rights as it concepts in the most important international documents. The social care system can only work if social workers do their job in a good way. The end-users of social measures depend on these people and the first step is to provide them with working conditions. The participation of children in judicial proceedings is a subject which becomes more and more interested in the attention and focus of legislators and all those who decide on their rights and interests in the procedures they lead. In this regard, we must bear in mind that the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child. The European Convention on the exercise of children's rights in 1996 guarantees the child to be consulted and that he may and must express his opinion during the judicial procedure in which he decides in his rights and interests. A special place in court proceedings shall be held by children who, when participating as parties whose personal and property rights make decisions, insurance of children and adults, represent in court proceedings by an independent body as well as quality protection of their rights. We must be aware that whether we want it or not, we influence their life and their future. It must not be forgotten that children have the right to express their opinion and that it must be respected. It should contribute to sound consideration of standards and practices related to the participation of children in court proceedings. By deciding in a litigatory or extra-party procedure in which a child participates as a party, it is always good to ask whether the answer to the legal question in front of us is appropriate, whether we have achieved the purpose for which such proceedings are being conducted or whether the child's well-being and best interests are guaranteed for the child whose rights and interests are being decided. The very purpose of a child's special guardian is to be present in every procedure in which the child has the position of the party in accordance with the law, but that the child's opinion must be respected. Every child must have a safe environment, respect for fundamental rights, because without it we deny the whole society for the wealth that children provide. Children are a priority, and we have to keep that in mind every minute 24 hours a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182478	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182479	The Honorable Chairman. The debate on the social care centre system has been under way for years, and one crucial issue is not being touched, it is related to the fact that social care centres are taking children from poor families. So if you're parents, mother and father of a child, and you're broke, you've got an object, so a house or apartment that may not be adequate or, say, too small or I don't know they're sneezing, etc. will take away your children's welfare center. And why does it matter? I can understand that children are taken from a family in case they are abused in it, it's clear to me, it's acceptable and it's something I support because children who grow up with parents who are heroin addicts, neglect them, abuse them, etc., children from such families dysfunctional they will unfortunately end up i.e. It's very likely it'll end badly on its own. But the question is, why is the state taking children away from poor families? Why, for example, when a poor family comes to Croatia from Syria that doesn't have one lip in its pocket, why does a country give such a family an apartment for free use, pays a director's fee, etc., their children have the right to a free kindergarten, and let's say some poor family from Croatia who are Croatian citizens who, for example, do not have rent or whatever they say or have an inadequate house that is ruined, why does the state not help them? Now that is a question that I cannot answer because I cannot understand the logic of people who share free houses and apartments with asylum seekers from third world countries while at the same time in our own country children are being taken away from their parents because of poverty. Why say if the EU is as human as it seems, if the EU cares about the poor or the dissident, why not build a fund for the Croatian homeless? Why, for example, does he provide housing for people who are already living in Croatia today, people who are here today, people who live in severe poverty, why doesn't he help them? Well, there's no answer logically to that question either. My guess is that the state doesn't really care, my guess is the state wants children who are destroyed, my guess is that the state wants to create a system that spiritually, morally, and in any other sense destroys people, and why, so that I can control it more easily. If you kids leave with parents who are addicts and abusers, you're actually sort of pushing those kids down the road. I'm going to make an example of a charge against Philip Zavadlav who was accused of killing three men in Split. The charge says the following, in the media it was, like, against him where he's being denunciated as a person, says like with his mother he's been stealing around the church. So here I'm asking you, is it more likely that the mother took little Philip to go steal with her to church or is it more likely that Philip took his mother? These are questions that must be asked. I honestly doubt little Phillip would tell his mother, let's go steal in church, assuming that this thesis that the media are saying is true. So if you have such behavior within your family, you realize that a child in such a family should not be. And all that happened finally in Split because the result of the system's girdle or inaction or misbehavior. You have a case where a child is not exempt from family even though it is clear what kind of mother a person is and what conditions children live in, what they are exposed to. You have a system where one of the victims was killed two months before he was killed, now, was arrested, found 270 grams of heroin in his apartment and was released. Oh, imagine, you can imagine that. State's attorney, DORH says if you have 270 grams of heroin on you, you don't have to be careful about the state's arrest with what explanation, it's the first time he's been caught with drugs. Look, you have to ask yourself, and Mr. Rainer as vice president of the assembly and all of you other MPs. Is the person whose apartment has 270 grams of heroin? Is that her first drug contact? Do you think the distinguished ladies and gentlemen and viewers who are watching this today are the person who found 270 grams of heroin in her apartment that it's her first drug contact? I doubt it, I don't believe it, and therefore I believe that the state's attorney should have deprived that person of his freedom for a long time, or kept in custody for at least a few months to send a message to that person, that her behavior is not normal. But the state's attorney lets him go free, and at that point, I'm sure the man who was killed thought that the judiciary was on his hands, that he played the system, that this state's attorney who proposed, who didn't ask for arrest, was careful not to ask for arrest, for him to go down his hair. But only two months after he fell with drugs he was killed, ha, if he had been in prison, they'd be alive today, i.e. In custody, he'd be alive, but like I said, a state attorney lets him go free. I read in other judgments of the court in Split, it is given work for general good, for kilos and kilos of drugs are given ridiculous penalties of type a year. That's the question. Then I read this one who was sentenced to work for the general good, during the time, as a general good, he was dealing drugs again, etc. The simple system in Croatia does not work. I can understand that the police say we can't catch all the dealers, okay, I can understand that we can't say everything, but the ones you caught why these people are still on the street. Why doesn't there be a system that I can put behind bars one by one? And in the end, I want to ask the question of what kind of society do we live in? What is the consciousness of people who after all this, so you have a terrible tragedy, you have three dead, you have Philip Zavadlav in prison, his two brothers addicts. What kind of person does it have to be to sell heroin to Philip's brother after all this? So where's the moral compass of those people? So what about them? What kind of state sees all that, knows all that and lays its shoulders? I think that courts are too mildly condemning drug dealers, and I think that even those people who are honest with the police when they see what kind of punishment dealers get and let them go free, I think the cops are being disillusioned, demoralized, that they simply don't see the meaning of their work. And I think social care centres in cases where they should be saving children from critical families, as well as where you had a man throwing children out a window, unfortunately they don't, and in the Zavadlav case, they don't. But what do social care centers do? Well, here's what they do to my family, for example. The debate about why Noah didn't vaccinate. This is of interest to the welfare centers, and the fact that children commit robbery in Međimurje and, of course, no one takes these children from a family where such behavior arises. No one takes the children of Zavadlav out of the family, but little Noah is interested in them. Why? You ask yourself, my conjecture because we opposed the system because we don't want to be pawns of the global elite that our lives are worthless. And finally, once again, I ask the state, why is it that poor families who don't have adequate housing, solved housing issues are not helped by housing, but taken from children? At the same time, you give third-world migrants apartments for free use, you pay them directors and their children have free entry into kindergarten. My Noah won't be able to go to kindergarten, and they'll go for free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182480	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, he will now speak for the finally respected State Secretary, Maria Pleikosa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182481	Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. I thank you for your constructive discussion and your suggestions and remarks. As I pointed out at the beginning of the debate, the adoption of the Law on the Centre for Special Care, clearer and more quality, is regulated in certain areas of work. The Centre for Special Care is an important institution and specific in carrying out its activities because it represents and protects the rights of the most vulnerable groups in society, children and adults in need of prescribed protection. The establishment of the Centre for Special Care shall ensure minimum conditions. In the term of office of this government, the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy provided 13 new vehicles and now there are 15. There are four special guardians employed. This year provides for the employment of 8-10 special custodians for which the funds are provided. It also provides for the opening of 4 new branches. Furthermore, the increasing specificity of court proceedings requires employment and professional staff specialised in conducting talks with children and adults as professional assistants in, professional assistants to a special custodian. Once again, I thank all those who have helped with their contribution to making the best regulation and I propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the proposal of the Law on the Centre for Special Care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182482	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We are now going to the next point, which is: - Proposal for the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2020; The Reportor is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article. 31. The law on official statistics. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182484	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. As you know, every year the State Statistics Institute with other holders of official statistics, and based on the Statistics Act itself, it is called the Official Statistics Act, draws up a draft proposal for the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activity for each individual year and for this 2020. Afterwards, the Statistical Council of the Republic of Croatia on 2 October last year was the same and accepted and addressed to HS... bringing it in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The annual implementation plan itself shall be adopted each year, with regard to the programme document concerning the statistical activity currently in force, and this Annual Implementation Plan shall relate to the last year of the implementation of the programme document called the Programme of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2018-2020 and shall be based on the needs of the users of official statistics and EU requirements. In addition to national modules to provide data arising from the needs of the state administration body, the scientific community, the wider public, other users in the Republic of Croatia, the programme also lists European modules, since during the EU accession, a special emphasis is placed on the integration of our statistical system into the European statistical system and enabling the comparability of RS statistics with data from EU Member States. As is known, one of the main tasks of the statistical system is effective and timely preparation and dissemination of quality statistical indicators that maintain economic and social phenomena and processes and provide users with a reliable source of analysis of the existing situation and decision-making. The annual implementation plan shall cover the review of all statistical research or development activities which the official statistics holders intend to carry out in the first... and according to the Law on Official Statistics, these are 3 types of research. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first is statistical research based on direct data collection. According to this survey, the data obtained from an administrative source or by a method of observation and monitoring and third development activities, lists and other extensive statistical research. As regards this Annual Implementation Plan, a total of 276 statistical activities are foreseen, of which 155 are based on direct data collection, then 85 based on administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring and 36 development activities. Of the 276 statistical activities mentioned above, the State Statistics Institute plans to conduct 229, while other activities will be carried out by other holders of official statistics and the Law on official statistics and statistical activities programmes 2018-2020 respectively, the Croatian Institute of Public Health, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Environment and Energy and the administrative body of the city of Zagreb, which is responsible for official statistics services for the territory of Zagreb. We are looking at areas of statistical research. Statistical research and projects in 2020 relate to 6 areas. As far as demographic and social statistics are concerned, 70 statistical research and projects are planned, while 46 are planned in the area of macroeconomic statistics, in business statistics 99, statistics in agriculture, forestry and fisheries 39, statistics for several areas 21 and, in conclusion, in so-called ‘the world’. ... out, one statistical survey through development activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Compared to the area of demographic and social statistics, I would just like to stress here that intensive work has been planned for October of this year, that is, throughout the year, and in October and implementation, intensive work on preparatory activities for the implementation of the list of population planned for 2021, and the test list would now be carried out as I said in October. It would include a sample of 100 censuses or 10,000 households in 4 counties and in the very city of Zagreb. A list of populations, households and apartments would be implemented using modernised methods of collecting with testing, using administrative data sources. As far as the DZS budget is concerned, for its activities that I mentioned earlier this year, total planned funds amounting to 201,59 million kuna, and of which, with the DZS itself, is 177,95 million kuna. In addition, within the framework of the National Institute of 2020 financial plan, the planned expenditures are financed from general income and income of HRK 150.64 million, then there are from own incomes that are not significant, but again €248.800, and other aids of €190.000, EU aid of €757,480, other EU funds of €16.12 million and the European Social Fund amounting to €10 million. Finally, in accordance with one of the general strategic objectives of the DZS, it has continued to seek to increase the level of user involvement in the process of defining statistical activities, and active... engagement... are an important prerequisite for further development and improvement of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia, especially with regard to meeting user needs. Therefore, in the last years, a wider set of institutions as well as other users in the process of making it is included in the annual statistical activity implementation plan. That's it, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182485	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182486	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Director of the DZS with an associate. So here I would just once again point out that all of us in this House and otherwise in our private life love to highlight certain statistics and research, and it seems to me that there is insufficient attention to the exact importance and accuracy of the data obtained directly or indirectly through other institutions. I would therefore like to say that all this that is now being done to make greater steps and to get closer to European statistics is very important in order to have more accurate data and records.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182487	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first representative, Marijana Balic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182488	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Secretary of State Zrinasic, the esteemed director... with co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. First of all, I would like to point out that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the proposal for an annual implementation plan for the Croatian statistical activities for 2020. The annual implementation plan of 2020 refers to the last year of the implementation of the new multiannual programming document developed by the DZS in cooperation with other holders of official statistics and based on the Law on Official Statistics. The proposal for an annual implementation plan ahead of us today is very exhaustive and comprehensive, it includes all statistical research and development activities that are planned to take place during this year. The plan provides for the implementation of three types of statistical activities, means statistical research based on direct data collection, research from administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring, and as a third type of development activity regulations and other more extensive statistical research. In his presentation, the State Secretary himself announced to us exactly how much statistical activities will be carried out according to certain prescribed types and how many will be carried out by the DZS and how many other holders of official statistics and, of course, the total amount of the planned funds for the implementation of this plan. So let's not repeat ourselves essentially what I want to point out once again and give an emphasis is, of course, one of the areas of research, which is the area of demographic and social statistics, since it represents one of the most important for the Republic of Croatia. We all know that the Republic of Croatia faces a long-term process of negative demographic movements that are reflected in several segments, primarily in the fall of birth, ageing of the population, eviction of the population from the Republic of Croatia. For example, statistical activities in the area of demographic and social statistics include intensive work to prepare activities for the implementation of population, household and housing lists for 2021, as well as the implementation of the population, household and housing test list using modernised methods of data collection with the testing of the use of administrative data sources, while in the field of migration statistics it includes continuous monitoring of statistics, external and internal migration of the population, general rates and specific rates of migration, as well as data on international and temporary protection, illegal migration and residence permits. So once again, I welcome, of course, all the activities that are planned to be carried out according to the plan in question and of course its adoption. Since the main tasks of the statistical system are effective and timely preparation and dissemination of quality statistical indicators that reflect both economic and social phenomena and processes and provide a reliable source for the analysis of the existing situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182489	Thank you. The next club of representatives is HSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives and New Policy, on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182490	Thank you, Vice President HS. Honorable secretary of state, esteemed director with associates. My colleagues and colleagues, in a brief debate on behalf of the club, I would like to say a few criticisms that, although they are being presented every year and every year, which are not only a problem for the State Statistics Office but also for the administration in general, which might improve that some of the jobs are being done better, better quality and then at the service primarily to the institutions, but also for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be able to monitor in time the trends or flows of what is happening in Croatian society. So let me make some of those reviews. As far as the 2020 activity plan is concerned, they do not differ much from the plans so far and we do not have any more significant comments, however, what we do not see from this plan, and what we are interested in is the percentage of these activities or polls that will be improved in 2020 in terms of being more complete, more accurate than in last year. The EU Commission has also made certain remarks and criticisms related to, say, macroeconomic indicators, they are available, but when they enter their core, when they require more accurate data or measurable indicators, there is much, much missing. Of course, in this debate we can't go, it crosses the frameworks of this problem, but it's certainly a fundamental problem as we see it in the club and what we discussed is that in the Republic, it's not the only country in which it's done so, there are countries where there's a different practice, so in the Republic of Croatia, the data is not collected in one place, so the State Department of Statistics is also speaking in its own explanation, it often collects and administrative data from other sources, and I think that in the Republic of Croatia data is being collected in 11 places, and then that data needs to be processed somehow, and the State Statistics Office would be more efficient if it were more equipped, of course, if there were more money and if these relevant data were collected in one place. That is why we lack some data that would be crucial, and in particular economic indicators. The second criticism is quite practical, and it refers to finding data within the DZS information system itself because the data when they are found are not complete, but what is most, the biggest observation, even though one of the previous discussions and the then director of it somehow opposed, was a little offended when the representatives objected to it, that website on which we are looking for data, as they would say, is not a user friendly, it is not, it is not available. Even people who are more educated find that data more difficult to find. I personally think it's complicated, not logical, especially from the point of view of the average citizen. For example. If you want to get to the employment information, it's almost impossible to find the post-2013 data. You have to do just that, some would say, users, you have to mining on the website to find some data. Here's an example of a job salary to the county. These are mostly data in excel tables, the DZS has annual average salaries only for 2017, and we are now in 2020. Also, there are data on registered unemployment, but of course it is not the same as the actual unemployment rate and it has data for the active population, but not the rate of economic activity. In fact, how busy the population is and how busy they are. These are data that should be more accessible so that it can be made easier then analyses that are also on the labour market, in general economic analysis. Here's the next example. Data on kindergartens give us the number of children per age group, but not the percentage of each age group attending kindergarten or any percentage of children in different counties attending kindergartens. What is the point of collecting kindergarten data if the main information on child coverage is shown? Here, that's for example. In this example, the total number of children covered by some preschool education and education programmes was 1000, 139, 378, of which 67,216 girls, 48.2%. But there are no data on how many total children in the Republic of Croatia and how total they are covered by preschool education, education and education. The third criticism we want to make. These are data on poverty in certain counties or so-called counties. a map of poverty. In 2016, an online map of poverty was created. The DZS received money from funds from the World Bank and then, this map of poverty was made on the basis of the 2011 census data, so in this sense we did not make significant shifts because this data would be extremely significant to us today, especially today, here, in 2020, and we could even call it a modern statistical challenge to collect data on poverty data from individual counties today. So, in this plan for 2002, there is no such data and now to discuss and conclude, but I also have a request from one Vice President of the Parliament, I apologize, is it possible that colleague Vlaho Orepic should take half the time, we forgot to apply, is that possible now on behalf of the club? ... It's not possible? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then it'll be individual. Okay. To conclude this debate, I hope you realize that these criticisms are only critical of improvement. We are also aware that some of the things that are being done are conditional on both staff and financial resources and everything, but we have to, and this has been repeatedly indicated in previous discussions, we have to say since the 21st century, 2020 and here is the fundamental question, why is the census only every 10 years. We hope that this will change significantly in the future. We wish you success in your work, and most likely this report when we make more decisions at the club, we will accept it as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182491	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the HNS on behalf of which a respected representative, Milorad Batinic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182492	Thank you, Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, very briefly. There is a difference of opinion on statistics and statistics. I remember from high school, he says, what statistics are, the exact sum of incorrect data, in college it was a little different, I would say that today statistics are the exact sum of objectively available data. It is extremely important in all segments of life from both social and clean and each of us subjectively if it looks, regardless of where you work, which you do, whether from local self-government, regional, especially national. I'm going to try to go through some very briefly, here's some clean and some thinking and suggestions, I believe that, not only will they agree with me, but that you're also thinking in that direction. It's a population list. Next year, we will be followed by a census, which is a comprehensive, extremely demanding job and expensive work. Now, my colleague Sagar says 10 years, I say 10. Let's set up a system to draw a line every year at the end of the year and know what happened that year. After 10 years of administrative review and after 20 physical, if considered. Why am I saying that? I don't want you to get me wrong, that the forest, the trees, because it's my profession, we have, every year, on, excuse me, 10 years of management with some component is a regular revision, and every, extraordinary audit, and every 10 years it's regular, depending on growth, about this, but every year it's recorded as being in a particular area. To go to the details of how many trees there were in 2019, and how many trees were cut, how many trees were in 2021. If foresters have been able to do this for centuries, I don't see any reason why this country can't set up programs like that and that kind of approach has absolutely nothing to do with it. Especially when you're planning, plans, regardless of whether they're medium-term, long-term, but if you don't have exact data, indicators, planned, trends, especially in today's day, then you're also short on projecting and what we can expect. Here, I know you understand better than I do and what the problems are, but here's a clear suggestion in which direction you should think. Let's say one thing. In particular, labour market statistics. Do we today in Croatia know exactly how many people are working, by age structure, by education, by how many pensioners, we know that, and how many people are working, who are not on the labour market or who are not working, and who are not able to work? Where can we get that? I mean, why does it matter? In particular, many of our companies are asking permission to import labour because it is not available, and I say there are a lot of reserves in this part of it, working inactive, which are neither registered nor deleted, and there is potential. Come on, maybe some profits from the side on the black or they went out to do something, same on black, etc. In order not to be there, I think the state would have an interest in getting stuck in that part, to see who these are, so we have data, health insurance, all of them are health insurance, but how to get that information, and even at the level of local self-government, name and last name. We have data from the welfare center, if it's part of the community. I tried to set it up at the city level, but I'm getting away with a lot, too. I can't get any data at all. Could not close temporary folder: %s The investor comes in, I say, he said, look, I have an unemployment rate of 2.5%, but he's got a space, he's got a workforce that's not even at the office, and it doesn't physically mean it doesn't work, it's free, but who are you? Who are you? So I'm saying in terms of absolutely that this is necessary, all of this needs to be done, but maybe even certain data try, there are always priorities, something more important, something less important, to agree to some and these statistical activities and what we expect to get at some level of priority. I think it's very important to us now that we have more employability. The potential exists right in this part, the ones that don't work. They're not employed, they're not receiving a pension, and they're not at the Employment Service. It is, believe me, at the level of the Republic of Croatia, somewhere more than the region to the region, an extremely large number of people. And where are they? They're not here. But health insurance, etc., etc., and there is a potential to pay in health, to pay in retirement, etc., so that's the responsibility of the state. For example, one detail is particularly relevant to me, and I believe that, first of all, it is about here and these days we witness in Zagreb, polluted air, we have areas, climate change, etc., I see that in that part of the material of agriculture and forestry and fisheries, forestry, that Croatian forests have the exact data of how much forest land, how much hunting, how protective, for private forests we also have something to assume, but if I were to do a single analysis there in '94, '95, and by some progression of natural succession, meaning leaving agricultural areas, we are at the level of the Varazdin County richer for some 20, God, over 5,000 hectares of forest surfaces. The natural conflict that was agricultural land has now become a forest, is that there are chicars, everything, etc. Why am I saying that? There's a lot of mention of the emissions of harmful gases, but we have a pandan and oxygen production, increased, larger than forest trees than... Of course, it was supposed to be an aero photo shoot, not expensive today, it's not as expensive today as it was about 20-30 years ago, I believe in cooperation and with regional or local self-government, I think it would be extremely important, valuable, valuable data even though the basis of the Forest Act is private property private responsibility, and even at that level, at the level of... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] , not to say how many unprocessed agricultural land that is potential, which is currently on the responsibility of local self-government, but I also believe that you are aware that many of the environments of local self-government, less municipalities, means less fiscal capacity cannot employ a agricultural director and will not solve agricultural directors in all these problems. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am, just for a little while, meaning on these two examples that we try to focus on what's important to us over the next few years, which would be a benefit for the potentials that the Republic of Croatia has, there's more, there's more to it and to try to make the system work, now we've measured it right now, so let's supplement, programically to know, in 2019. So many newborns, I'm collecting from, from, from this pardon, let's send a memo as much as it was born, so I'm going to the parish priest give it to me, so I'm coordinating it, so I think people, I think of the Republic, the European state in the 21st century that we should still have it in one place all together. Now, why did I say the available data? Obviously, some data will still be easier, some harder to access, but if we don't start setting up some new ones, not just targets, but also the way the system works, then we'll still be on this part. Furthermore, when I was talking about this part of the work that uses all the benefits of the health system, and have the potential to harm, to put themselves in the labour market, they are able to work, why not, and how to get to them, how to get to them? Here, I won't be long, of course the HNS Club will support the proposal of a statistical activity plan for 2020, I'd like you to try to see about these proposals, think about it, of course these are systems that need to be analysed, set up, pilot do, and I believe that perhaps through let's say realistically objectively over 2 to 3 g. to start working that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182493	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate and the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about a technical matter, but very important to see in which direction our country is moving and, as counterpart Batinić says, the definition of statistics, I would not quite agree with the fact that it can be interpreted as well as in one way or another, it is quite exact, shows trends, shows what the Republic of Croatia is doing, the situation in which we find ourselves, whether the results of certain reforms and laws that the Croatian government is carrying out and which Croatian society has at work, and how we feel that we should vote, whether the chairs of 6 months are more important than to start some things, but what is important to see whether in some situations we can further add to what we might be able to monitor and discover our publications. Here's the other day we were listening and I think it was yesterday in a German newspaper, our prime minister said that Croatian citizens don't leave the Republic when we talk about demographics, that's the first point of this list, this list of what we're going to follow, said that Croatian citizens don't leave the Republic because of what society is unregulated, corrupt, which is unfortunate here because they don't have the same chances as all other EU citizens but are leaving Croatia to earn. Here was a statement from our prime minister, and it was an express moment that one emigrant or our citizen who went to Ireland and sent him a brutal message back and said no, we didn't leave, I don't want to use the words here in the assembly because they were angry and angry and vulgar towards the prime minister, but the essence of what our fellow citizen was going to say is that he left Croatia because he can't stand this society and wants a society where he'll feel good and where he'll be able to work. Not only to earn, as if in Croatia he had no money, so here he wants to make more extra money outside of Croatia than he wanted to work, he wanted to earn his salary and wanted to live on that salary normally. So fair pay for honest work, that's what they wanted and what our people who left Croatia want. In parallel, they want a country that will give equal chances to everyone, who will not prefer this or what is a member of a party or because of what is held at this time by the majority in the City Assembly of Zagreb or the Croatian Assembly because it is unfortunately something that is dominated at these moments in Croatia, where it is most important, and not whether anyone is capable, professional. So now we see that a member of Bandic's party has replaced the HNS in this Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. It is a Croatian reality and it determines how to vote on certain issues and that determines what we will and follow in this plan of statistical activities next year. So I propose to my colleagues and colleagues from the Ministry of Statistics that our Department of Statistics do a one-year survey among our people who went outside of Croatia, and there are over a hundred thousand of them who have moved away in the last year and a few days to see what that is about. Is he right, Prime Minister Plenkovic, who says that they wanted to make extra money and that they were not satisfied here because they could live normally, but they wanted more money or they went to have the opportunity to work and get a fair salary for honest work and live in a society where work is appreciated, where knowledge is appreciated, where responsibility is valued, and not living in a society where the voters are valued, where they appreciate whether you've managed, where they appreciate it when you get or seek a job, whether you have someone from the family, but in the city of Zagreb, where the whole families are employed through connections in the City Headship, so people simply want society fair and fair. And is that even so hard to understand? I don't think so, I think everyone can understand and accept it, only people who don't live in their own time and space, but somewhere else speak exactly the opposite as our prime minister said for example in the German newspaper. When we look at the labour market, when we look at education, it is scandalous that we, for example, see the labour market, reduce unemployment because of this demographic reason that people leave Croatia and it is simply impossible to find a quality worker in certain dams anymore. For example, in Zagreb you have a whole series of professions that are required from those who don't need a lot of school to those who are highly professional, from medicine, for example to catering professions everywhere. And pays the race, but not quickly enough to compensate for the possibility of living in the city of Zagreb in a dignified way. Education, so we do nothing and it would be good to do one research and get information about what parents think about this reform of education and Minister Divjak, who is exclusively in her chair to do some other projects by the end of the mandate and manage to provide the stakeholders with certain jobs that are not at all interested in students, who are muddying on all sides. Here she said that two percent of the students were missing in the compensation last week. So that's a lie. I guarantee you in my school in Zagreb 50% of the students were not present. If Zagreb may hold a slightly higher average with regard to some other parts of Croatia, but in other parts of Croatia it was certainly at least a third of the students. And when you have a minister who's able to tell such a lie dead cold to probably secure projects selling pills without a camera this year to someone else, then what's more to be surprised about? So let's use the statistical institution to do research on the quality of certain services that the state provides, means in education whether parents are satisfied, what bothers them, in health care to demascate this Minister Kujundzic who explains to people that health care is great, and nobody sees it, means on this side, unfortunately, we can monitor certain trends that are worrying, but we don't get real feed back, and we could at little cost additionally because this costs a lot, we have a whole institute that deals with, we have scientists, statisticians, we could do quality surveys and research to see what people really think about a particular portfolio, how much progress has been made and ultimately that we don't have to look at the arrangement of commercial TV houses that then orders it, obviously there is, would be no TV Nova or RTL ordering polls to follow certain areas, that interest doesn't exist. If there's an interest the question is right why the state doesn't do it, probably because it doesn't get tax results back, because people say if you don't know it's easier, it can be easier right now, but long-term nothing is sustainable So here's what one of my proposals, Mr. Vice President, is to put these things in order to get quality feed back. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182495	Thank you. My suggestion is to stick to the weather. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of the Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182496	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Maras, here are statistics, as they say, the sum of incorrect data and statistics in statistics say that the number of unemployed is decreasing, and unfortunately again we have people who, not new jobs, who do not find jobs in the Republic of Croatia but have to go out, we have statistics in Zagreb that praise the mayor, and we see what the situation in the city is like, especially with the disposal of the trash, so here I am expressing concern with these statistical methods whether they are properly implemented or if the data that are being entered inside is haired, here is a little doubt about all this, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182497	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182498	Thank you very much. Absolutely, doubt is justified, when we look at the City of Zagreb, when we watch, people who look at us wonder why the city is dirty and why we have problems with, with waste and what has changed compared to before? The answer is very simple, so before we had no waste separation, we now have 3 or 4 times more buckets, and the resources remain the same and the purity has not been prepared, the city has not prepared itself, the city administration, the citizens have prepared themselves, they are separated, but these are no longer able to take away and the organisation of work is missing and bad and on this side the citizens must understand that inability and the city administration that is not right only by changing and changing can make the new city administration work better and that ultimately we have a clean city.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182499	Before we move on to the next line I would ask you to stick to the topic this one we will now have a statement of view, so anyone can talk about whatever topic he wants, very soon in 15 minutes. The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Whites, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182500	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Maras, when we look at the statistics and I will agree with Mr. Lenart, statistics are for me in this way with this methodology of how to do a haired and dead letter on paper, but despite this, the statistics say one thing, and the citizens see the others as the head of the opposition in the City of Zagreb, you see the third. Now, I ask you, are you ready or ready because it is obvious that, after the next local elections, the following local elections will come to a change if this is no longer the case, if you have the answers, that the statistics that are now being haired, that the future when you and your partners are responsible for the business, the complete business of the City of Zagreb, that these statistics simply coincide with the fact that you are in the field, so whether you are preparing with you and with your partners to take over the final Croatian metropolis. Or the future of the Croatian metropolis [[Intruder: Thank you]] And return it to the 21st century? [[Intruder: The Answer of Respected...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182501	...Advocacy Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182502	Thank you very much, colleague Beljak, the question is in place and the question is expected because citizens rightly want to change in the City of Zagreb for years of inaction and corruption by the mayor and HDZ and when they would move aside the corruption that needs to be eliminated and can be done and cleaned up very quickly from the city administration, remains what is important for the citizens, what we have to provide, is to increase the quality of life, to make sure that in the city for the money that citizens pay 10 billion kunas finally live in a quality way every year, normally that we are ready, normally to wait for change and normally be part of this change and I am sure that the citizens in the next elections will choose a new site for the City of Zagreb where there will be no more Bandić, nor HDZ, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182503	The next individual debate of the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, so when we talk about statistics, I think it's one valuable discipline and one scientific, scientific discipline that might be used in reality and in the present, no longer, to use selectively, and that's exactly what's going on with us, let's say we're often witnesses on the other side that some data is being thrown, not that they're not accurate, but they don't have grounds in anything, and that's enough just to look at sites, colleagues from the HDZ website of the State Statistics Office, so that they get some data, and then talk about it. For example, we often hear ourselves in this home, and also in the last presidential campaign we could often hear from now on the former president about the emigration of young people from the Republic of Croatia, and then it was said that the exodus of the emigration began during the former government of Zoran Milanovic, and that in fact, it was implied that this government and Zoran Milanovic were guilty of evicting people from the Republic of Croatia, however, it was not enough that those who were speaking to the State Department for Statistics page to look at the data there on eviction abroad from 2011 to 2018, and then it would have been seen that the exodus of eviction from Croatia began 2016, that in 2017 it was recordable, and that in 2018 it was at the level of these figures. And now that we look at the emigration of people from Croatia in 2012. 7,500 people, 2013. 8,200, 2014. 12.100, 2015. 16,000 and then it comes in 2016, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, and this government, 36,500 people, then left Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the So in 3 years, over 100,000 people have left the country and no incorrect data should be uploaded. So, my message is HDZ go to the website of the State Statistics Office, look at those numbers and you'll see the exact data there. The second thing, same thing a few months ago, not now when I'm talking about the Bureau of Statistics, but when we talk about this way of statistics or counting, we get a huge announcement from both Prime Minister and Minister Horvat that Croatia jumped 7 places on the Doing Business ranking on the ease of business in Croatia. And basically when we look at the data Croatia jumped 7 places but it is still 18 places below where it was in 2015 when HDZ took power in the country. Therefore, when we use data from the State Statistics Institute or some other international institutions or statistics, then they should be used as they are and shown a relevant view of the situation. This is how we often get into some kind of Facebook news, etc., but then why the data might not even be used. Here, I must say, I am pleased with the work of the State Statistics Institute over the past years, but I must express my dissatisfaction with the political shift of the head of the institution that happened a year, a year and a half ago, and I think that such things when politics gets mixed up in these, in this way in the work of the State Statistics Office that it then ruins trust in these institutions. So these things should be avoided, but I don't think the State Statistics Service is doing a bad job, that it's misrepresenting the data. Statistics are one science, we've all had it in colleges, so data can be interpreted one way or another, but this is important that they're accurate and it's shown. And now on this example of eviction, I just wanted to show what it's like when the exact data isn't being used or when they're being dumped without any information. So, enough here, the Statistics Institute has shown the last 8, 9 years and moving and moving the average salary in Croatia and the economy and reforms and GDP, and all these data are there, import, exporting vehicles and other data and it can be used, but it's always good to watch those data with, say, the last 5 years, 10 years, not draw a year by year to whom it fits. Here, that's about the statistics and this report. The report is as it is, as well as the data and representation of the situation which, realistically or as it is, is. We can interpret it one way or another, but here's my appeal is just to use numbers and accurate data and then we won't have a problem with lies, but on the other hand here's the last choices and they show the last ones that people still have eyes and that people still see what happens in the country regardless of what HDZ tells us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182505	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182506	Thank you very much. In this debate, it was difficult to go beyond what Vice President Reiner suggested because when you look at the list of what is being followed, it practically covered everything. And if you're interested in a particular area normally that you're going to comment on it and it's good that you pointed to some things, regardless of what perhaps the ruling or the chairman is not responsible for opening certain topics. But what I wanted, I wanted to mention here specifically, when you look at the statistics of the report it's amazing that people who are now in the position of government to use, say, one data statistically, which is to reduce unemployment in a way that boasts about it, and we're all aware that, with unemployment going down, unemployment doesn't grow. Because if it were a population that finds jobs in Croatia then it would be logical for employment to grow, but in Croatia, employment does not grow either. So you can see how you can play with certain statistics and basically manipulate them eventually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182507	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182508	That's exactly what you noticed, colleague Maras, and that's exactly what I was saying. When the exact data is displayed selectively. Thus, Prime Minister Plenkovic and counterpart Horvat praised us on the Doing Business ranking, and in fact we are still 15, 20 places behind where we were when they took power. It's the same thing with this job. The number's down, the number's down, the number's down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're Not only that, so we listen to the cry of entrepreneurs to move quotas for imports of workers from neighbouring countries because there are not enough workers in Croatia. So where are these people? These people are abroad, which is exactly what I was just talking about. The expansion of eviction in a country that started in 2016. There are people who want knowledge, who want experience from some other countries, but there are many more dissatisfied with the situation in Croatia, corruption and that image, and they go to countries that they think are more just. I hope that after these changes 5.1. changes will take place in Croatia and that people will start to return to the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182509	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative of the Beljaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182510	Thank you very much. Dear Representative and colleague Đujic, you spoke of certain praises and I will join those praises because indeed in the State Statistics Office people who are of the profession work. But what you said is the most important thing. Politics must not be involved, nor should they ever interfere. That's why we have data that disagrees with, say, German statistical institutions. So, we're talking about the number of people evicted to Germany about one number, and the Germans are talking, and somehow I'm more inclined or more inclined to believe in the settled states like Germany that they have more accurate information about the people who moved out of Croatia. Therefore, politics should be removed absolutely in any way from that institution where honest experts and people work, and then the data will be such that no policy will be able to play, but will be able to use accurate and accurate data or praise or shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182511	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182512	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Beljak, I completely agree with you and it is not only this data that you listed with Germany alone, we have export data, so then we have one export number, say a wooden building which is shown by the Republic of Slovenia, Italy or some other country turns out to be 2 or 3 times more exported. Now, either the data is being faked or in this case I even think it's being stolen, so I have to say that because why someone would fake the number of exports, so that tree came out somewhere, if 100 m3 entered Slovenia, and the Republic of Croatia shows that it exported 50, where 50 m3, who sold them, in which way, but yet it's all the problems of the functioning of the country that makes them young and leaving. Once again, I agree completely with you that in institutions like the State Statistics Institute and such a form of the institution politics must not be within a millimeter because it destroys citizens' trust in these institutions, and then no data is believed to be more accurate or correct and these anomalies that show incorrect information as well. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182513	Next individual debate by the respected representative of the Beljaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182514	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues, I will look back at a few sentences on a part of this whole plan, and as far as my personal profession is concerned, I'm a geographer by profession and I've been following the population's movements for almost 30 years. And I've been doing it through history, and I've been doing it through the present. There have been announcements about the introduction of a population register, maybe I've been doing it somewhere in this whole ghoul about New Year's and Christmas holidays, but I don't know, here's the thing, before I get on with it, whether it's going or not, my debate is basically on the subject, so whether it stops or not, just please yes or no, whether it goes, after the list, badly, very badly. Population censuses in 1991, 2011, 2001, '81, '71. were done by a methodology from Austria-Austria, the 2011 census does not correspond to the truth, you as statisticians need to know very well, so the level of error + -10%, we have a proportion in the number of voters and in the number of inhabitants, i.e. the number of adults, therefore something is wrong. A census long ago when they were working, when they started working, in 1857 was the first census of the population that was held by Austria-Hungarians was a topic among people who were running away, hiding in the woods, reporting less because they thought that the census was something that would mean a list of taxpayers or what they would be, reducing the total numbers of everything they had, because they were afraid that they might have to pay bigger taxes. Modern countries have introduced population registers, registers with 100 or 150 internally unrelated to some internal global networks, so internal checkpoints, internal hubs, internal terminals that can be found in these 150 cities or municipalities around the Republic of Croatia, can be organised very quickly, very cheaply, updated on a daily basis, and then we would know at any moment exactly how many Croatians or municipalities there are or no residents. It's about that at football games 20 years ago. It was an estimate there were 30,000 viewers, remember that, everyone, we're all following the sport. Today when you're watching a game in England or, I don't know, Italy tells you exactly at the number, 25341 viewer, so that can be done, that's that so-called. The digitalization in which your party swears to HDZ, as far as I remember for 6-7 years, and none of it. You're going to make a census, you're going to spend 170 million kunas more or less, but it's about that number, and for 10 times the population register can be made within 2 months, and that population register can quickly grow into the property register and register of everything, it's called then system building. When the system is settled then there are no longer possible tax frauds, it's not possible in that sense, it's not possible, possible failures of certain properties, we solved dozens, if not hundreds of thousands of litigation disputes about property when introduced and the property register, all to do, believe me, I can do it without any problems from a hobby with very little resources to make students of the first year of college, the first year of college, you know that very well. In this way, the Republic of Croatia would show that it is a regulated state, could, could, could follow on a daily basis statistical movements and trends and, accordingly, as an independent, non-political institution, the State Statistics Institute could propose to rulings from any party what to do to make trends change or just keep on doing so, because trends are good, so work on that, a census with 10 thousand censuses of which 90% know nothing but come to earn 100, 200 or 1,000,00 kn how much you will already get where people are hiding, where there is no methodology or methodology is old from Austro-Hungarian, this is practically the same methodology that this census is a blow to nothing, believe me speaking out of the profession, I'm telling you well-meaning because the data will not again be accurate, that the data will be wrong, not now + -10, but + -15% and with that list except as paper we'll do nothing. The census is made together with the register, I think it was one of the ideas I read, but that population register doesn't make sense if it's made to stand, it has to be updated on a daily basis. The Republic of Croatia is not too big a country, the Republic of Croatia does not have too many populations, the Republic of Croatia has 100 checkpoints where 100 people who can update all these data on a daily basis in the number of born, in the number of dead, and all of this, can practically have an updated and 100% accurate census every day as a basis for all future Croatian policy strategies which, I hope, all parties would want to be in positive trends and move forward and show that we are a modern state, not a state that uses the regulations used in the 19th century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182515	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned a list of the people to whom the voters are necessarily attached and a list of voters because we are one of the few countries in the world, if not the only one, in which the list of voters and residents compete with each other, means they are very close by number and by number because that list of voters has been unsettled for years. And the bizarreness of this whole situation is also seen by the Ministry of Administration's praise that in the past elections the dead will not be able to vote as if there was one standard so far normal. On this side, it is absolutely necessary to introduce order into both categories, especially the census, but because of the choice and credibility of the election and the list of voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182517	The answer to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Whites.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182518	Comrade Maras, I completely agree with you and that's another thing that's not strange, which is crazy that the census and the voters list don't match, it's simply impossible, so it opens up suspicion, does not open suspicion, i.e. electoral fraud. If we have about 4 million inhabitants, no one knows, I'm convinced, I follow the movements that more than 3 million 700 do not live in Croatia, and we have 3 million 800 or 3 million voters, that's impossible. So that's the difference not small, not negligible, not statistical, that's the difference between half a million people who are enrolled and who have the right to vote. Are they dead, are they somewhere else, are they even existing, are they people invented like some when they were collecting signatures for a referendum invented by people who don't exist, whether these people are made up, and then someone later when they close the polling stations registers that they vote on what the open question is, and that question has to be solved because otherwise all elections are illegal, simply illegal because we don't know who chooses.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182519	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182520	Thank you very much, Vice President. You've opened a very good topic and you're absolutely right. Here's a big problem with the list of voters. There are 4,800 adult residents in my city, and we have 5,300 voters, so 500 people who don't live there, and there are voters on the list, and that's not normal. I know here now says colleague Orepić behind it, he tried to fight it the same way, we and our government started a colleague Ranko Ostojić here to care because it obviously suits someone and it suits someone because he already has a number of voters he can manipulate from local elections to parliamentary ones and that's one issue that he has to deal with with with first. And it's amazing to me that we in the country are all calling for that digitization, we have uncoordinated data, we have one list of voters and we have one data in the voters' list, other data in the MUP, third data in the IRS, we have one total chaos of an ununited digital system and everything. And maybe this proposal that you've made is one good model of solving all these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182521	Thank you. The Honorable representative, Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182522	Of course I agree with you, but then crazy are examples. Here I can talk about a city where I've been mayor for 11 years. Samobor has a 2011 census of 38,000 people, so according to police data in Samobor there are 42,000 people, and the number of voters in these elections was 36,000, so these are funny things, I'm talking about Samobor. As it is elsewhere, I really can't imagine it. I know of some other smaller environments, especially along the border with BiH. Vrgorac has twice as many voters as its population. But I repeat with good faith, with little financial resources ten times less than costing the census, all that is regulated and all that will be regulated, you know when Mr. Djujic, after the next parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182523	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Vlaha Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182524	The Honorable Chairman. Good afternoon. I am glad that my colleagues have kind of expanded the subject that I have been working on and I am trying to solve a whole series of problems, and that is why I want to speak on this topic today. So the plan of statistical activities in the Republic of Croatia should, as well as everything else, be useful to something and crediblely useful and give unambiguous answers to some questions and even political ones. So you can't allow some kind of statistical data to be interpreted politically differently. In this spirit, the area in which you can make a significant contribution is precisely the protection of democratic processes or the credibility of the outcome of elections in the Republic of Croatia, extremely important. I like numbers because the numbers can't be unmanaged, so you have three areas where you can give concrete unambiguous answers, it's a credible list of voters, it's number one. So what's a little bit of a reference, and that's the number of constituency units, at this point we've got as many constituency units as we have, all of these constituencies give the same number of parliamentary deputies that doesn't match the number of residents, and trust me, the Constitution can bring that down. So the results of the next election can be sued if there is no change. So, for example, a parliamentary representative from Dalmatia in the area where more votes are given for one parliamentary term than in some county in Slavonia, this is extremely important. And the next problem we're facing, which is, let's say, what you can read from the number of health insurance companies. We have significantly more health insurance than the number of inhabitants. So we have a huge number of fictitious populations in the Republic of Croatia. My assessment is minimalized that the number is 250,000, and with these 250,000 people, the 250,000 voting rights arise primarily in parliamentary and local elections. Now I'm going to tell you one disastrous piece of information. We from statistical activities cannot know how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Here, give me a man in the Republic of Croatia who knows the number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I am jumping property from the Mostar Bridge. You understand me, amazing. All right. We have a phenomenon on the trail, so we have a phenomenon where the number of inhabitants, the population is smaller than the number of voters. Well, let's say I do, I like numbers I said. So the list of April 2011, the 12th month elections in 2011, is the difference, so we have in the following counties more inhabitants than voters Sisak-moslavina, Karlovačka, Ličko-senjska, Požeko-slavonska, Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska, Vukovar-Srijemska and more voters means from the number of inhabitants and 42 cities and 153 municipalities. I can give you the information exactly, if you're interested. So, look back and forth if we go a little bit. A 2001 census of 2007 population, the number of voters higher than the number of adults for 568,097. Then, the list of April '11. 12th month elections, '11. a list of larger voters, meaning from April to 12 months a list of voters greater than the number of adults by 605,827. Amazing data. So when you enter the data check, when you want to deal with this topic you see that the sources that can be for this kind of data are the MUP, the DIP, the Ministry of Administration and the State Statistics Office. Believe me, everyone gives me different information about the number of residents, the number of voters. Unbelievable. So, what do I want to appeal to? That your activities must provide answers amongst other things. They must serve something, and primarily in this country, which at this moment is the most important, what should be served is to protect democratic processes in the Republic of Croatia. In order to establish the exact number of inhabitants, to establish the exact number of health insurance companies that should be matched, to eliminate this fictitious population in some way, this must be resolved because we have a huge number, a disproportionate number of residents and other givings, and among other things, voting rights. That's got to go away. After all, if you do so without answering these questions you cannot be given any support for work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182525	Thank you. We have more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182526	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Orepić, as well as your colleague Beljak, you are talking about a subject that is truly bizarre in Croatia, which is that it is inconsistencies in the lists of voters. What you said is another thing that goes one step further, which is that our election units are not in line with the number of voters, although it is repeated from election to election. And already last time, the Constitutional Court said it was possible to cancel the election. And now the real question for the ruling is why haven't they proposed any changes? Why does this disproportionate number of voters correspond to HDZ? 'Cause if it didn't match the HDZ, we'd probably take care of it. Unless we are able to even settle the electoral lists as Government of the Republic of Croatia, are we able to handle anything in this country? So we have election units that don't match the electoral law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182527	Dear Representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182528	I don't want to burden you with what Mr. Maras, it's not your job, to decide what this particular state or this particular election unit will look like. But what does it matter exactly? Your activity must be able to point out that anomaly we have, which is a disproportionate number of residents in certain constituencies and in relation to the number of parliamentary representatives who give in this high house. And we need to get that answer from your data and that data has to be equally interpreted by every policy. It means it can't be interpreted differently. And if we do that, if your work is such that it can be interpreted unequivocally, then you've done your job, if you haven't done it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182529	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182530	Thank you very much. Kolega Orepić, one, one of the possible solutions to these problems we are talking about, but in general, the solution to all problems is transparency and there should always be transparency. You have now well noticed that we do not have the number, the exact number of Croatian citizens. And that's one scandalous piece of information to me, and on the other hand, when we go back just a little bit, say 10, 15 years ago, we couldn't even get an insight into the voters list. So that was 15 years ago, today political parties can get a list of voters, which has already reduced certain manipulations. The SDP proposed amendments to the Law on Presidential Elections a month and a half ago when we asked that any voter who came to the polling post be signed when he took over the ballot. So if there were such transparency and control and all these possibilities and if the space for manipulation was reduced then maybe I didn't care that these data were hiding and holding out because then you wouldn't have anything to do with having extra voters if you couldn't manipulate them. As long as it's like that, we have the possibility of manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182531	The answer of the respected representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182532	I believe that there is a very simple situation where by clicking on the Internet we will be able to see the number of voters or not a list, but the number of voters in each municipality, in every city, in the county, in the electoral unit and in the state. So, it's amazing to me that it's hidden until some last day before the election and that's how it's solved. So to definitely make that qualitative step in the election process, we have to be honest with each other and make it impossible for everyone to manipulate the list of voters. Definitely at this point, there is an election fraud, too, because of this fictitious part of the population that I have highlighted, or the number of voters, and because of this disproportionate total, let's say, where relative to the number of minors I have already highlighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182533	The next replica is a respected representative of the Beljaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182534	... All right now? [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder Reiner: A fellow white man, microphone.]] Can you give me back my time then? [[Intruder Riner: Yes.]] Can you give me back my time? Thank you, you really are a gentleman, thank you very much. I know firsthand that the election units of these unfortunate 10 constituencies that did not meet the right state of affairs at the time, the right state of affairs, not only by the number of inhabitants, because by some count it was complex, but the electoral units were made up of political decree and order that out of the 10 electoral units in them, 7 HDZ must have a majority. Zagreb, which has always been against HDZ today and then, has been deliberately distracted into 4 electoral units. On purpose. So these constituency units, not that they're no good, but they're never good, and they're doing less and less every day. I really don't understand why it continues to insist now that it is apparent that it is no longer responding to HDZ because it has lost the elections, lost the euro of parliamentary elections, lost the presidential ones, and will hardly be defeated in parliamentary elections, I really don't know why they don't change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182535	Dear Representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182536	The reaction to the electoral, in the electoral system is necessary and it has to happen as soon as possible, again it's not your part of the job, and it's very clear to me, this, however, what's clear and I'll do it again, I'm probably getting tired of you today. I don't know how much autonomy you have in this action, as much as you can, but your activity has to give answers, how many citizens we have, how many voters we have, how many voters we have, these are 3 basic things and that must be available to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia by clicking on the mouse. Number. This can be achieved today, if not every day, means to update to some period of update, let's say a month, etc., we simply have to get to that stage. If we don't get to that stage, there will always be calculations and reasonable doubts about the illegality of the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182537	Dear Representative Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182538	Thank you. Comrade Orepić, you have opened the most important question, the fundamental question that arises and concerning these people here today. For example. You've made an excellent detection of health insurance. The data to be collected shall not be observed outside the timeframe. If we observe them within the time frames, they show us trends. In order to have this quality, we need to have methods and methods of data collection that are faster than data change itself. It's a system problem for us. We have data, ways of collecting slower than change itself. Well, at a certain point, it's called derivation in mathematics, and in that account, we don't have actual indicators but we're late, we're always late with those indicators. So here we have, we can look at the data from 2017, but it's late, 2020 is now. How many health insurances are there? And then we come to the question of human rights. The media is asking whether the husband of the man who went to Ireland to work who remained in Croatia has the right to health insurance or not. It's one of the issues of the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182539	Dear Representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182540	What is important to conclude, and that is that the last three choices we have the average value of half a million more voters than we should have. In all elections and numbers, they say that. How in 2007, how in 2011 and how these last ones. So this is one serious problem that we have to solve, and these elections, I warn and I take the opportunity to warn the general public, unless some intervention is given, some intervention in the legislation, in the norm of implementing the elections, the results of these elections will be saddened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182541	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182542	Thank you, Mr. President, colleague of the Orepic. Unsatisfaction, the desire to win next elections, is all about getting votes in the next elections are the main cause of all of what is going on and the electoral units and the larger number of voters and this system that is done, instead of finally making a system that will be quality, which will serve the development of the Republic of Croatia, the whole time politics dictates only getting votes, hairs, fakes, so there's a theory about abolishing the JMBG because apparently the citizens' assets were tied up, he was abolished, these data are gone and after that we introduce the OIB. Behind that, we see what's going on, how the property is transferred, how it disappears, how some people get rich overnight, come up with assets that have never been theirs, means the mess of total, and the office of state administration... Countys [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's going to be an intricacies growing... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182543	Answer, honourable representative of Orepic, please. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met and now we'll take a break after which there will be a vote as scheduled. It's 13,22 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182544	Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan for the Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2020 The applicant is the Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan for the Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2020. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 84 for, 33 abstentions and 2 against the adoption of the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2020. The annual report on the business of the Financial Agency for 2018 is submitted by the Financial Agency. This item of the agenda will be voted in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘The Annual Report on the operation of the Financial Agency for 2018 is hereby adopted’. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 107 for, 1 abstention and 9 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182547	Thank you, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Committee for the Election, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Assembly of the Proposal for a Decision to appoint the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament. For the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, Tomislav Šimičević is proposed, you received the CV.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182548	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate and we can vote. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 111 votes for the decision made as proposed by the board. This brings us to the end of the vote. Let's now go to the selection of appointments and resolutions, please the chairman of the Committee for the selection of appointments and administrative affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182550	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Committee for the selection and appointment and administrative affairs of the Croatian Parliament prides the proposal. For a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Drazen Srpak is proposed because on 7 February 2020, a member of the European Parliament's Committee on European Affairs stopped acting as Dragica Vranjš. The following proposal is proposed for a member of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Damir Mateljan, instead of Romana Jerkovic, who stopped acting on 1 February as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The next proposal is for a member of the Croatian Parliament's Defence Committee, which is proposed by Vlaho Orepic. The next proposal is for a member of the Committee on Finance, the state budget of the Croatian Parliament proposed by Drazen Srpak, because on February 2, 2020, the member of the Committee on Finance, the state budget of the Croatian Parliament, stopped acting as Dragica Vranjš. The next proposal for the chairman of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee, proposed by Pedja Grbin, is because on 21 February 2020 the office of the President of the Croatian Parliament for Justice stopped acting as Orsat Milenic for his term of office. A member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament is also proposed and is proposed as a member of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Ranko Ostojić. It is proposed for a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament Mirel Ahmetović. It is proposed as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament Mirel Ahmetović. The President of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament Tomislav Panenic is proposed and Slaven Dobrovic is proposed for the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament Damir Maljek be resolved, and that the member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament be proposed by Marija Mačković as the member of the Committee on Regional Development ceased to act as Dragica Vranjović on 7 February 2020. It is proposed for the chairman of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee of the Croatian Parliament Damir Mateljan because on 1 February 2020, the president of the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation ceased to act as Romana Jerkovic. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Assembly Silvan Hrelje be resolved, while Bojan Glavasevic and Mirela Ahmetović are proposed for members of the Committee on Gender Equality. It is proposed as head of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Ante Babić because on 7 February 2020, the Head of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Dragica Vranjš. The deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Ante Babić is hereby dismissed, and Martin Baricevic is proposed to be the deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. As deputy member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development from the Order of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament, Branko Juričev Martinchev is proposed because on 7 February 2020, the deputy member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development stopped acting as Dragica Vranjš. It is proposed to be a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency Anton Kleman as the member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency stopped acting as Dragica Vranjš on 7 February 2020. A decision is proposed to appoint the president and members of the Vladimir Nazor Award Committee and to suspend the term of office of the president and members of the Vladimir Nazor Board. The president of the Award Committee Vladimir Nazor is proposed by academician Zvonko Kusic, and the members of the Committee of Awards are proposed by academician Zlatan Vrkljan, Branka Cvitković, Prof. Dr. Helena Sabljić Tomic, academician Frano Parać, Goran Rako, Dinka Jeričević, Milko Sparem Black and Branko Schmidt. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182551	I'm opening a debate. I thank the board president. I am finalising the debate and voting on the proposal for decisions of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 96 votes in favour and 1 vote against us have made decisions as proposed by the board. This is what we came to the end of the vote. Now is the selection of appointments and resolutions, a) Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and (b) Proposal for a Decision on the election of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal is proposed by the HDZ Representatives Club on the basis of Articles 172 and 272. Rules of Procedure. First, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of Croatian Vice-President Miljan Brkić. Please, let's vote. First, who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that most of the 102 votes in favour and 2 against that decision have been made. Secondly, I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect the vice president of HS Ante Sanader. Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that most of the 103 votes are for and 1 abstentions and 2 against decisions taken as proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club. Congratulations to Agent Anti Sanader on his election of this honorable duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182554	On the basis of Art. Paragraph 105.1 of the subst. 1st and 1st Article. In 161st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st. The Rules of Procedure of the HS, the Committee for the Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the HS proposes a decision, a proposal for a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system HS is proposed by Sasa Djujic, as on 21 February 2020, a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system HS ceased to act. Orsat Milenić. The President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Dr. Mira Kovaca, and for the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, HS, Marijana Balic is proposed. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy HS, Arsen Bauk is proposed because on 18 June 2019, a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy, HS, ceased to act as Dr. Branimir Bunjac. It is proposed as a member of the Committee on the Economy of HS Gordan Maras. It is proposed to be a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership HS Karolina Leaković, as on 10 July 2019, a member of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the social partnership of HS ceased to act. Maria Alfirev. It is proposed to be a member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of HS Karolina Leaković and Damir Mateljan as the member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of HS ceased to act on 10 July 2019. Marija Alfirević and since on 1 February 2020, a member of the Health and Social Policy Committee has ceased to act, Dr. Romana Jerkovic. It is proposed as a member of the Committee on War Veterans HS Vinko Grgic. A resolution is proposed for the chairman of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of HS Ante Sanader, and a mag is proposed for the chairman of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the HS. Miro Totgergeli. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of HS Mir Totgergelija be dismissed, and Martin Baricevic is proposed as a member of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of HS. As a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, HS Marta Luc Polanc has ceased to act on 21 February 2020. Orsat Miljanic. Decision is proposed for a member of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and social partnership HS mag. Bernard Jakelitch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182555	I'm opening a debate. Comrade Pernar, you've reached out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182556	Well, Madam Chairman, I would like to say that at the time of this unprecedented crisis, we are today dealing with human racers that are not really dependent on the fate of citizens, but that is why the fate of citizens depends on the way the government faces this crisis, and unfortunately, the Government does not do it properly. I find it pointless to deal with such topics or such points on the agenda while the situation in the country is as it is and when thousands of people are left out of work every day. I'd like to mention just one thought, which is that HZZ requires the unemployed to have at least 9 months of work in the past 2 years, and many people who are now out of work do not have that condition that they have worked 9 months in the last 2 years. and, consequently, they remain without any income whatsoever and the worst is without being able to find a new job. You're aware of that. Not that they can't get new, not that people can't get to new jobs, but those who already have jobs are left without them. And instead of discussing here in the assembly, that these laws that regulate the HZZ regulations are being amended, instead of the state setting out certain money that all citizens should be entitled to, which cannot work in this situation, which do not have a job, to enable them to exist, we are here dealing with who will replace who in which Assembly committee. I think you're devoid of your senses of reality, that you're simply living in a virtual world, surrounded by your own courtships here and ignoring what's going on. The voice of the people is no longer heard here in the assembly, and worst of all, yesterday you passed the Civil Protection Act without debate, and now you are also predicting the supervision of citizens or access to their locations without a court order because earlier you need a court order, today more if these changes are accepted, you will not need a court order you are actually listening to or planning to spy on your own citizens under the exception of the Crown Virus. This is the situation we had in the United States when many amendments to the law were made after 9/11, today the crown is actually an excuse for introducing a new world order in Croatia and for measures that restrict the freedom of citizens, whose citizens are being monitored or listened to, and I don't know where this is going. Is maybe one day if you find a tobacco vaccine against the crown, then maybe you'll introduce a mandatory vaccination for everyone and those who refuse you'll be vaccinated and maybe give a fine of 100,000 kuna or send them to jail, that's what I'm wondering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182557	My colleague Pernar, thank you very much. I was just about to comment on something. I am closing the debate and we are going to vote unitedly on all the nine proposals tabled by the board president. So who's against those decisions? Who's restrained? Who's in? I find that most of the votes are 111 for and 1 abstentions and 1 against decisions being made as proposed by the board. This is what we came to the end of the vote. Now let's go to the selection, appointment and resolution, so I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Mir Totgergeli to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182559	Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of Art. Paragraph 105.1 of the subst. 2nd and 3rd, Art. 161st century 1st and Article 1st of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the HS proposes the adoption of: Decisions on the appointment of the president and members of the committee and the termination of the term of office of the president and members of the Committee of the "Ivan Filipović" award. For the chairman of the "Ivan Filipović" award committee, it is proposed: Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, the members of the board are Jasna Krstović, Josip Ivos, Valeria Turk Presečki, Sunčica Findak, Ratko Visak, Majda Tometic, Daliborka Luktic and Jasenka Janović. On 19 July 2019, the chairman of the board, Vesni Bedekovic, suspended his term of office. The members of the Committee appointed by the decision on the appointment of members and the termination of the term of office of members of the "Ivan Filipović" award board of 2017 have ceased to be in force over the legal period of 2nd year. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182560	Thanks to the board president, I'm opening a debate. I also immediately conclude the debate, so I am voting on the motion for a decision on the appointment of the president and members of the committee and the termination of the term of office of the president and members of the Committee of the "Ivan Filipović" award, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that it is unanimous, 104 votes for the decision made, as proposed by the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs. This is what we came to the end of the vote. I thank you all. We'll continue our free speech in a few minutes, only those who don't want to stay in the assembly to leave. We'll continue on Wednesday. We'll continue on Wednesday with work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182561	We will now move to the point of selection of appointments and resolutions based on Article. 105th, Art. Article 161 273 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The election, appointment and administrative affairs committee of the HS submitted a proposal to the HS for a decision to appoint a Vice Governor and to suspend the mandate of Vice Governor of the CNB. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Mira Totgergeli to explain the proposal for a Decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182562	Thank you, Vice President HS. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 80st century 2nd, 3rd and 4th. The CNB Act is prescribed to appoint the HNB Vice-Governors on a proposal from the Committee on Selection, Designation and Management of Jobs with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. That members of the CNB Council must be members of the Republic of Croatia with a known personal reputation, with a recognised personal reputation and professional experience in monetary, financial, banking or legal areas and be appointed for 6 years. The election, appointment and administrative affairs committee of HS collected proposals from representatives' clubs in HS and sent these proposals to the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, which unanimously decided to support the proposal of several clubs to appoint mag for Vice Governor of the CNB. The science of Ivana Jakir Bajo. Following this, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs held at the 50th session held on 12 May 2020 unanimously with 8 votes to establish a proposal for a decision with an explanation provided in the materials. The Committee proposes to adopt a decision on the appointment of a Vice Governor and to suspend the mandate of Vice Governor of the CNB. Under 1. The Master of Science Ivana Jakir Bajo, acting on his duty on 1 July 2020, is proposed for the Vice Governor of the CNB. And below 2. On 25 October 2019, the duty of Vice Governor of the CNB shall cease to be held by Neven Barbaroš for his termination of the term of office. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182563	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing, closing the debate, and we'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. That's what we came to the end of today's events. We will continue to work tomorrow, on Friday, May 15 at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security, first reading, P.Z. No. 950. Have a nice follow-up this afternoon. Session interrupted at 15.42 hours. We will now move to the point of selection of appointments and resolutions based on Article. 105th, Art. Article 161 273 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The election, appointment and administrative affairs committee of the HS submitted a proposal to the HS for a decision to appoint a Vice Governor and to suspend the mandate of Vice Governor of the CNB. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Mira Totgergeli to explain the proposal for a Decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182565	Thank you, Vice President HS. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 80st century 2nd, 3rd and 4th. The CNB Act is prescribed to appoint the HNB Vice-Governors on a proposal from the Committee on Selection, Designation and Management of Jobs with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. That members of the CNB Council must be members of the Republic of Croatia with a known personal reputation, with a recognised personal reputation and professional experience in monetary, financial, banking or legal areas and be appointed for 6 years. The election, appointment and administrative affairs committee of HS collected proposals from representatives' clubs in HS and sent these proposals to the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, which unanimously decided to support the proposal of several clubs to appoint mag for Vice Governor of the CNB. The science of Ivana Jakir Bajo. Following this, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs held at the 50th session held on 12 May 2020 unanimously with 8 votes to establish a proposal for a decision with an explanation provided in the materials. The Committee proposes to adopt a decision on the appointment of a Vice Governor and to suspend the mandate of Vice Governor of the CNB. Under 1. The Master of Science Ivana Jakir Bajo, acting on his duty on 1 July 2020, is proposed for the Vice Governor of the CNB. And below 2. On 25 October 2019, the duty of Vice Governor of the CNB shall cease to be held by Neven Barbaroš for his termination of the term of office. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182566	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing, closing the debate, and we'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. That's what we came to the end of today's events. We will continue to work tomorrow, on Friday, May 15 at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security, first reading, P.Z. No. 950. Have a nice follow-up this afternoon. Session interrupted at 15.42 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-17-0.u182567	The election, appointment and resolution, the proposal for a decision to appoint a Vice-Governor and the termination of the mandate of the Vice-Governor of the CNB, is proposed by the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, and the debate is concluded and I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a Vice-Governmentary and to suspend the mandate of Vice-Governor of the CNB, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the votes, 95 for, 8 abstentions and 11 against decisions made, as proposed by the Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Board. First, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing EU rules in the field of payment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 818. Here's your colleague, Glasnović.
