ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u9632	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. Before we go on a free speech and a declaration of amendments in accordance with Article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 4th session with 13 new points. The proposal for a supplement has been submitted by electronic means. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that a proposal to adopt an individual law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure, Art. It sets out that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is point 1 of the proposed amendment of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 69. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 206th century is 1. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under points 2 and 3 of the proposed amendment? If not, I believe that the proposal for an emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. There are no rules of procedure of written objections at the remaining points of the draft agenda, and I would say that all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 4th session. Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives who respected HS Vice-President Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u9702	Thank you, Mr. President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. 20 days ago, exactly 20 days ago, the beginning of the HS session was held at a new session. In the current hour, asking Mr. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic about the Republic of Croatia's strategy in combating the pandemic with covida-19, Mr. Plenkovic replied "Our strategy against covida is rational, adequate and proportionate". This rational, adequate and proportionate strategy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has led to today's irrational figures, so today at the Dubrava General Hospital there are as many as 400 covid patients, 70 of them on the respirator, and every day the numbers of people dying from this severe disease are double-digit. In Croatia, the latest information is that 3308 new people have been infected, 49 people died, with data being measured on the weekend. The number of positive in Croatia of those tested averages positive of those tested is 30% in some parts of Croatia even ranging from 25 to 50%, as in Varazdin and Međimurje County, and we know that in all European countries where we have 5% of the infected share in the tests is already ringing the alarm. This is all the result that warns the entire professional public of late and overly mild measures where many experts warn that in the end we will have such a number of infected that unfortunately we will end up in a heavy lockdown we did not manage, which we did not want, and we will not have a choice in the end. And after that, after the HDZ party elections, the government again means the second time has decided to tighten the measures a little bit, and now we know something more, to introduce restrictions for public gatherings, to prefer or suggest that employees move to shift work, to get a little more serious access to the problem and obviously is no longer the only priority of the prime minister in the public situation dedramatic because all those who are not thinking in the same way dramatized, and here we have a chance to see in one show on HRT where the head of the Prime Minister's Office for one of the world's top and top scientists says that it is not yet a class that could sit in the Scientific Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that creates a whole policy against covid. And today a lot more is known which are the new rules of the game for most Croatian citizens, how many of these rules will bring results we will see, but there is another sector where there is absolutely nothing known, and that is the educational system. Somehow it seems to me that we have a deja vu from the spring when, say, the graduates were the ones who were exposed to different information from day to day, and in fact to the last end neither they nor their parents knew what would happen to them, that they would end their high school education only at this point that all parents in Croatia are asking themselves, a little more than 400,000 students who would be with our children, which would be with schools, in which we would organize our time, our jobs because the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not give any clear solutions. In the list of measures that were published two days ago more precisely, there is no school, although here we see in a few days from the headquarters and from the government come completely contradictory and confusing information. So Minister Fuchs said just four days ago that students may be going to winter holidays earlier this year, the day after that HZZ headquarters proposes to switch to B and C teaching models, but not for all schools. The same public appeal by a high school doctor should have online classes for two to four weeks. After all these appeals by the government and Mr. Capak, or headquarters, I say the Government, because the headquarters has long been politically instructed on our grief, Mr. Capak says headquarters is against closing schools. What I'm looking for at this point from this pay phone from Minister Fuchs is to make it very clear to parents and students, what is the protocol until the end of the calendar year and by the end of the first semester of this school year? At what point should the number of people infected in the Republic of Croatia be in one day on a certain number of inhabitants in order to appeal to schools that cross some red border, a red line to go to online class on model B or C? Is online teaching only high school or colleges and what will happen with winter holidays? Be responsible, don't just disinfect your hands, wear masks and keep your distance, give answers to questions and don't try this uncertainty in Croatian public anymore. Thank you. I'm sorry for overstepping your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u9703	Thank you. Comrade Voter, please, you're the vice president who also presides to keep an eye on that. Now, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, the respected representative, Rada Boric, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u9785	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Tomorrow, on Tuesday, November 24th, European Parliament lawmakers will vote and I trust to grant assistance to Croatia from the European Solidarity Fund for the resolution of the result of a devastating earthquake in Zagreb that took place just over eight months ago on 22 March this year. The amount of aid is 663.7m euros or about 5 billion and 128m kuna. An advance of 88.9m euros, i.e. 666m kuna, was already paid in August. How these funds were spent, if they were yet to be seen. The HDZ government and the parliamentary majority refused the amendment of the Green-left bloc club to the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County to traffic on the fund's accounts in real time. Although the fund was entered in the court register on November 6th, then 15 days ago, it has not yet been entered in the list of bodies of the public authorities of the information commissioners. The answer is the director of the fund, Mr Damir Vangelic. We have therefore launched supervision of the Director and the Fund in order to comply with their dealings with the law, in this case with the Law on the right to access information. Under that law, the Fund is obliged to appoint an information officer responsible for the smooth operation in favour of the right to access information. We also requested bank accounts from the Fund on the basis of the Law on Access to Information from the Fund in November 2020, and the Fund is obliged to resolve this request within 15 days of receipt, so at the beginning of December. The right to access information is one of the fundamental constitutional rights and enables supervision of public authorities to prevent corrupt and other criminal offences at the disposal of public money and other public property. Recently, however, we heard from Prime Minister Plenkovic after his condemning first-degree verdict to Ivo Sanader and HDU in the Fimi Media case that there was no way he could bear the label of Ivo Sanader. According to the results of this surveillance, as well as future civil and other supervisions of the fund, we will see whether the label of Prime Minister Plenkovic is able to take off or, in its support of Zagreb Mayor Bandic and his overpaid cable company or at the intransparent start of the Reconstruction Fund, we will have to conclude that the HDZ is changing only hair, but neither the label.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u9844	We are going to the last debate, it is a respected colleague of Dalia Oreskovic on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u9845	President-in-Office HS, fellow MPs and MPs. We use free speech to point out a social problem that we particularly care about or to send a message to our voters about the specific world-wide or programming ideas that we present on the political scene. Today I will take the opportunity to comment in free speech on one of the bizarre news, even more bizarre commentary on the news by the Prime Minister and HDZ chief Andrej Plenkovic. When it was published in the media that Lovro Kuščević, after being embarrassed by a bunch of corruption affairs being removed from the office of the management minister and without any shame, pointed out the candidateship for the party's duty as president of the municipality organisation Nerežišće and so as the only candidate, so I got support from local membership, thought no way that it was true. And when Andrej Plenkovic said that Lovro Kuščević had not yet been found guilty and that he had all the rights to continue scratching for party functions as a voucher for a new round of scratching for public and state functions, he confirmed what I continuously point to. Dear HDZs, not all corruption is seen in individual examples of those who have abused their political and public functions. There's something obvious about your collective mentality. Corruption is this fine thread that gives you common nominal, common connective tissue, and if in Croatia there is still that folk custom that women bind wise sayings to a canvas that decorates the home, such lines would be written, while HDZ is in power, Croatia does not change because corruption is the essence of HDZ's desire. I must admit, sometimes I find it a bit daunting to watch you get upset in your chairs and fry on the fire of anger while I tell you the truth in your eyes. You're usually waiting for the end of your speech, so you're calling for a violation of the Rules of Procedure that isn't. I usually cut the lines, 4 horizontally, 1 vertically on every reminder you get because you're using the Rules of Procedure wrongly. In an impertinent attempt to discredit me, and your rhetoric and ammunition are empty. And that is why I would like to tell you that your anger is worthless in relation to the justified rage of honest Croatian citizens who suspect that the barren will be all the actions that will be conducted against Lovra Kuštević. And this is due to the initiation of spatial plans that he re-scheduled the barn to business space, because he allowed the brother-in-law to buy POS's apartment illegally, on the basis of which he only benefited more than 17 thousand euros on the difference in interest. Because of the sale of the business space of Kuščević d.o.o., an illegal profit of 14 million kuna was obtained and the state budget was damaged by 300 thousand kuna. On suspicion of taking bribes, etc. However, Andrej Plenkovic said that HDZ will stick to the corruption party's labels. Well, dear Prime Minister, it's not labels, it's your DNA, your internal code, your arrival. And the only way is that you will not stop us from pointing to the toxicity of your existence and further management of Croatia. Your new HDZ are Josip Djakić, Ivica Kirin, Darko Puljašić, Mario Pilan, Davor Milicevic, Josip Sarić, etc., continue the series. And don't even try to lecture me on how as a lawyer you should know what that means to be a presummation of innocence because as a lawyer, I know very well that the actions will be carried out under the laws that you've been setting up and in the judiciary that you've filled with bad people. Don't even call on my post in the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, because I will return it with a raf fire that I carried out in that body what is unforgivable in Croatia, which is that the law applies equally to everyone. And it's just as bad as it is, it's full of holes, and it's because that's how you made it. Unfortunately, with good help from the SDP, which in the Constitutional Court brought down the few good provisions that were worth something in the law. When I saw 2018 in which direction the Minister of Administration, Lovro Kuščević, began to amend the law, I realized that further Kuščevecisation of Croatia, further enslavement, can only be prevented in the Croatian Parliament, then I decided on politics. And that's why I'm here now, whether you like it or not. From day to day, I will call an opposition from left and right to the political spectrum to attack one institutional and legal weakness that you deliberately installed in the system so that various Kuštevići continue to destroy Croatia. However, while there are still honest politicians on the Croatian political scene, we will eventually bring down a series of those to 76. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u9846	This brings us to the end of the speech of our clubs representatives and independent representatives, and we now move on to amendments and a declaration on amendments to the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for '21. And a projection for '22. and '23. Mr. Crescent. We are going to another debate, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns esteemed colleague Marko Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u9875	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I wonder if this government has any meaningful strategy or vision of Croatia's future, or if they only aim to survive the next four years to win another term? Like all governments today, this government has shown very little interest in protecting the natural resources of the Adriatic, and thus the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia. In the economically insecure times that await us, we need to think about how to exploit the full potential of the Croatian natural resources available to the state. If we want to sovereignly rule the economic development of Croatia, we must recognise the value of natural potential in the Croatian part of the Adriatic and the coast. The agony of fighting the ruling and opposition that advocated the declaration of an exclusive economic belt lasted from the late '90s until 2013 when critics who came up with a bunch of pointless excuses why not declare the exclusive economic belt suddenly fainted. Namely, the Commissioner for Maritime and Fisheries at the European Commission, Maria Damanaki, indicated the request of the Europarliamentary representative, Ruza Tomasic, which reads "The declaration of the exclusive economic belt remains in the jurisdiction of the coastal states, and those including Croatia can sovereignly decide whether to declare such a belt in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea with a view to ensuring the economic potential of their resources in a sustainable manner." After the Commission's reply to all the masks, lies and delusions fell, it was quite clear that all the governments that opposed the declaration of the exclusive economic belt were making up all the reasons why the economic belt was not an implement actually opposed to ensuring Croatian economic interests. I wonder if we can find the reason for the opposition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to declare an exclusive economic belt as well as many other topics in the awe that the Government has towards Brussels. The EU's stance all these years on declaring the exclusive economic belt was mostly negative, and this view justified the argument that the Adriatic is part of a closed or semi-closed sea category, just like the Mediterranean, and that the declaration of exclusive economic belts would put free navigation at risk. But such arguments are completely unfounded because free navigation is guaranteed by the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea as well as an exclusive belt. In addition, the vast majority of European countries have declared an exclusive economic belt or so on. Despite the EU's views, however, the Italian Parliament is now writing a draft law confirming a proposal by the Chamber of Commerce to declare an exclusive economic belt. They were not interested in declaring the economic belts all these years because it was appropriate for their fishermen to hunt without catch quotas and restrictions, but recent tensions in the Mediterranean between Greece and Turkey and the arrest of fishing Italian vessels in Libya were triggers for such legal measures. Recent statements by Minister Marija Vukkovic that there is no difference between the protected ecological fishing band and the exclusive economic belt are at least manipulative. ZERP is limited to Croatia's sovereign rights in the management of living natural resources of the sea, but not other rights that can be achieved by declaring an exclusive economic belt, such as the exclusive right of unliving wealth in the sea, or seabed, and seabeds. The announcement of an exclusive economic belt would finally solve the problems of fishermen with the apple cauldron, the main fish refrigeration site that would largely belong to Croatia. We must remind ourselves of the assessment that Croatia could earn up to 140m euros annually by declaring the exclusive economic belt. If it's in itself with all the other benefits that would bring the declaration of an exclusive economic belt, then I don't know what it is. The creation of Croatian policies with statements does not plan an economic belt in the Adriatic because we have good cooperation with Italy are shortsighted and go exclusively to the harm of Croatia, the Croatian people and everyone who wants to live or live on the Adriatic Sea. Croatian sovereigns thus call on the government to establish an expert commission that would carefully consider Italian plans, finally define the official Croatian position on the exclusive economic belt and explain to fishermen and to all others who live from the sea what the Italian declaration of the EEE means to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u9944	Let's move on, dear colleague Damir Habian of the HDZ Representatives Club. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u9945	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, on behalf of HDZ, I will look back at one, I would say, the biggest problem of the city of Varazdin, which is the balated waste at the very entrance to the city of Varazdin. Let me briefly present the chronology of the event. On April 2, 2005, the first ball was brought to a large green meadow at the entrance to the town of Varazdin. Today, 15 years later, on that same, once green meadow, we have more than 100,000 tons of balated waste. In 2007, environmental protection inspection comes to a place where balated waste has been delayed and requires the immediate removal of 40 thousand tonnes of waste at that time within 3 months. In 2008, the city of Varazdin concluded a contract on the intervention of waste disposal, and 2010. The Environmental Protection Fund signs with the town of Varazdin a contract to co-finance waste treatment for 40% of the cost of processing and recovery. By changing the government, the city of Varazdin awarded a concession for the disposal of waste to the supplying community at a time when the original contract, i.e. legal work, is in effect. At the same time, numerous disputes are being initiated, since the city does not act on either contract or conclude a concession agreement. In a simplified manner, two legal transactions are in place that the city does not act, and legal entities that have concluded the contract, or which are later awarded the concession, require the completion of the contract, and are subsequently suing the city for compensation for damages. It is, I repeat, more than 100,000 tonnes of balated waste located in a location that is a water-protected area, and given the course of time, the bales are in a decaying state and the coastal waters at that location find their way and pollute groundwater. In view of all of the above, in 2017, when we became part of the ruling coalition as a party responsible, we felt that we should try to solve this problem even though we could blame others because we did not participate in creating a problem or deepened it with our decisions in 2013. After negotiations with all the political options that are participating in the City Council of the City of Varazdin, we suggested that the ball issue be resolved peacefully in order to remove the health problem as soon as possible, but also to prevent a financial blow to the city budget. Because only the principal of those court disputes reaches nearly 300 million kuna, and I remind you, the original budget of the city of Varazdin is barely 200 million kuna. It is time for someone to finally make it clear, after 15 years of wrong, bad and missed opportunities, there are no solutions that will be free and that for us citizens will not be expensive. We must also be aware that no solution will be ideal, but it is important to make it the most favourable for the city of Varazdin. It is unfortunate that the issue of solving the embalmed waste of the ecological bomb has become a polygon for collecting cheap political points, and the bales remain in the same place. It is saddened that this problem is deepened by individuals from the opposition, who without any sincere intention to resolve it, without any proposal, let alone support in the effort to find a solution, can credit themselves with the greatest credit for continuing the saga on garbage. I call on both from this time and from this place once again all the political options in the city of Varazdin to actively involve themselves in the solution to the question of the ball, to justify party interests. I also ask that the profession from the competent state authorities be included and I urge and appeal to the competent ministries to assist in addressing this first-class health problem that lasts for 15 years. I am still standing by the opinion and attitude that those who have created the problem, which is politics, can't be part of the solution to that problem on their own, but we need the active help of the state because the time period of 15 years, how many 100,000 tons of ballast waste still stands at the entrance to the city, and the citizens of Varazdin are exposed to environmental disaster, is evidence of that. There's no movement. Children who started walking at the time of the first ball, today they are high school students. Soon they will sit in college benches, but the question is whether they will stay in a city that has become a dungeon of narrow and dark party interests, which may result in problems of this weight and adulthood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u10015	Now, as the 7th debate, we will hear a colleague, Stip Mlinarić, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u10016	The Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I'll look back as a Vukovar and as a Vukovar defender, as a camper at a memorial that went through with the 20th of 11th was finished on Veleport and on Ovcara, looking back on the days 17th, 18th, 19th and 20th in Vukovar. What can't happen? It must not happen that Mr. Plenkovic, Mr. Jandrokovic, the president of the state Mr. Milanovic, and all the other politicians, and all the other politicians will emphasize that, these days they are in focus and they are actually stealing from the victims. How do they steal? Stealing it is important where anyone will stand, whether the camera has caught Mr. Plenkovic and Mr. Jandrokovic in the front row or in the second row, those days must be the victim in focus. The victim is not numbers, now I'm going to say something on behalf of the Homeland Movement and in my personal name what I propose for the year and what I suggest for all the memorials held in the Republic of Croatia. In Vukovar, 2,717 were killed or killed in the surrender of 86 children. These are someone's fathers, brothers, sisters, children, and they have their own name and name. On 18.11. in Vukovar, there must be a Croatian anthem, a minute of silence and a reading of the name 2,717 names. This is what all the normal world states that hold to their dead and to their victims do, and that's what the Americans on September 11th, 2,000, and some people get killed in a terrorist attack, read names. It's not in focus that day. Andrej Plenkovic, Milorad Pupovac, or any envoy who has come to bow down as on Ovcara Vukovar to the victims is a lot of it. He came to us when he was president of the state and Boris Tadic, he came to Milorad Pupovac before in the columns, normally with the aim of equating the victim by throwing the 17.11. into the Danube, I don't know why. I am a participant from the first day to the last day, let Milorad Pupovac, Andrej Plenkovic or Zvonko Milas or anyone who should have been there with him, whoever was killed there, tell me his name and name, let him name me his name and his last name. And this way I call from the state protocol, the city protocol to read names and last names 18.11., anthem, minutes of silence, reading names and columns heading towards the cemetery where the Holy Mass is. It's a memorial. Nothing else. There is no need for anything else unless we are going to deal with politicians and politics these days, unless we allow who this year that Andrej Plenkovic comes on 17.11. and maintains the city HDZ and prepares for local elections and the focus of the media to drag it away. I think we owe people that much. What I'm saying now for Vukovar, reading the name, not being biased, I ask it, to be held at every memorial, at Maslenica, in Glina, in Petrinja, in Škabrnja, in Dubrovnik, wherever there was the suffering of Croatian soldiers, Croatian civilians who fought for freedom of Croatia, must be a victim in focus, there must be no politicians or anything else in focus. I think it'll be so smart, the wisdom to do it like that, I think it'll be smart and wise not to let the victim get even, that we haven't experienced that Milorad Pupovac or anyone else from the SDSS every year the column passes. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u10070	Now we're moving on to club statements. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge and Honored counterpart Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u10071	My colleagues and fellow MPs. In the last few days here in the Parliament, we had on several occasions a live debate about so-called. parafiscal intrusions, the need to eliminate them, to reduce them, about the reasons for what these contributions are for chambers and different para-state bodies. I was particularly impressed by the Prime Minister's statement, which asked his counterparts, Zvonimir Troscott, whether mandatory HGK membership could be abolished, replied that the HGK membership was the issue of HGK. And now again, we have a situation where the Prime Minister is being made ignorant, ignorant and does not say that the membership of the HGK is actually mandatory because it has been prescribed by law since 1991, which means that he, as Prime Minister, needs to make the law change. And then we understand why the government has refused these very legislative proposals by the Bridge to abolish mandatory membership in the HGK and the HOK because it said it was a complex issue, that it should be discussed, so I think now is the right time for colleagues and colleagues to discuss it. We have the biggest economic crisis since the Homeland War, we have thousands of entrepreneurs who, during an epidemic like this, have no chance of working, have almost no traffic. We don't know how many vulnerable jobs and wages. So now is it time to conduct that debate? And then we come up with a key question, what do they do today in this crisis of that chamber and what do they do with those mandatory membership fees? I don't know if you've been following television programs these days, but you could see that it's HGK that's exactly in reception with the most expensive payouts to those money these entrepreneurs have to pay for their commercials. They explain what they did, how they did, what they spent all their money on. So let's get this straight. We have a chamber set up by law where the law defines that membership in that chamber is mandatory, where membership fees are forced, you can't get away with it as an entrepreneur. So far, the HGK has burned hundreds, not hundreds of millions, billions of entrepreneurship kunas, and they're paying for commercials, just commercials. Well, that's what I call the ultimate example of arrogance and haughtiness, the secession from reality. But I think the most important thing is that this example shows how far the HGK is separated from its membership. And that's why I think all the Bridges initiatives that go towards abolishing mandatory memberships, mandatory membership fees are good and we will continue with these initiatives, and then let these memberships be paid to them by those who have enough patience for their haughtiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u10106	We're going to the 8th debate, and now it's time for a respected colleague, Kreso Beljak, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u10107	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. Let me present my personal position through a few sentences, as well as the position of the Club of Assembly Representatives of HSS and HSU. We all witness the hard, perhaps the hardest times in our lives, even harder than when it was the Homeland War. For what? Because when it was the Homeland War then we had some perspective, some perspective of freedom, some perspective of democracy, some society that we're building, a society that we're fighting for, and today we're in the middle of a world pandemic, we're on a global, huge global economic crisis, and we're acting like nothing is practically happening in Croatia. Listening to the debates of opposition leaders or politicians, but also ruling ones, it is the impression that no one understands in principle what kind of situation Croatia is currently in. Looking at the budget proposal for 2021, not to banalise now, we do not go from item to item, we lack one word, one keyword, and that is "saving". So, there is no saving anywhere, we act as if nothing is happening, as if nothing is going to happen next year, as if there is going to be someone with a magic wand and solve all the problems in which, not only Croatia, but the whole world of happiness, and Croatia, especially because this crisis is going to hit us more than some other countries that have opted for other employment structures, not just for tourism or for the things that Croatia has, which, as we have seen, have seen, seen very sensitive this year and can shake up the whole economy. I wonder if there is a will and I hope that in the days, weeks or months that come yet will find the will to put the heads together all politicians and ruling and opposition and try to find a model of how to overcome this crisis and as soon and as painless as possible from it, and in this way calling each other that, I fear, will not be possible? I hope that happens. It is not only a proposal, it is an appeal to us Assembly representatives of HSS and HSU, and I hope that also by ruling other colleagues and colleagues will see the necessity of such a one-way direction. I would say two more sentences, in a way replicated, and I agreed with Mr. Mlinaric, who spoke before me in a large part of it, to add, since I am well aware of the situation of having many friends who were defenders of Vukovar in prominent positions, I would like to appeal to him as an unquestioned hero of the Homeland War, as well as others to ask how there were not only 2,000 or over 2,000 victims in Vukovar but there were around 2000 and slightly less defenders, that is a very well-known fact. And it's also a well-known fact, and I'm going to quote Branko Borkovic's young hawk that there are 6,500 defence pensions in Vukovar today. So give those names and last names, so these are the people who embarrass you who have defended Vukovar who have been sucking up the state budget for 25 years, and obviously they will do the other, and that is one shame for both Vukovar and Croatian defenders and all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u10149	Now she will speak to a respected colleague, Natalija Martincevic, on behalf of the HSLS and reformers' Club of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u10150	Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There's a time when politics ends, and there's a fight for health and for people's lives. This moment in Croatia passed at least a month ago, but everything we do today is better now than never. In Varazdin County, after the fact that, by the number of people infected from 925 to 100,000, we became the most endangered region in Europe, the National Headquarters decided almost entirely to accept our proposal to introduce additional measures. We sent the proposal, though three weeks ago, and a week ago we repeated it with off three measures. At the same time as accepting, very interesting and quite certainly without a warrant, a series of attacks on Mr. already mentioned here, Đikiæ, as well as attacks on Mayor Cacic with a personal message that he does not know how to manage the crisis and that I guess with the entire county headquarters together reacts panicously. The messages may be sent by those who have brought us into this situation with their calmness, either by making decisions or by obstructing decisions. Namely, the decision to take measures by the mayors of Varazdin and Novi Marof, whose citizens make up half of the patients in our county, expressed their disagreement with the measures. This was joined by the president of the City Council of Varazdin, who together made it clear who has obstructed our efforts over the past weeks to bring stronger measures and preserve the health of our citizens. At the same time, WHO announces that our neighbouring county, Međimurska, is the second most vulnerable in Europe. To make the matter clearer, the National Headquarters shall take measures on its own or at the request of the county headquarters, precisely because the financial aspect of the measures financed by the State. In our case, we have complete news, which is that it is a public request from the Habian MPs, that the cost of compensation to companies for closing their activities in Varazdin County is paid by citizens of the City of Varazdin and Varazdin County, not by states like that everywhere else. So, let everyone else in Croatia pay the state, and let the citizens of Varazdin County pay for themselves. It is already a known model of some parties in the fight for the Varazdin County. Unfortunately for our citizens, these are the attitudes and suggestions we face in the fight with the pandemic. And therefore, of course, we understand that other county headquarters do not want to face and expose themselves to such attacks until the death of their fellow citizens does not force them, and some probably not then. It will continue to wait for the national headquarters to take responsibility and in this game the fear of taking responsibility goes away the lives of our fellow citizens. The demands of Mayor Chehok and similar to those of the factory, since they clearly state that they accept only a complete lockdown or nothing likely send a message that it is best not to do anything. How constantly the thesis is that we are in Varazdin County for lockdown, and sometimes it is heard that we are already in lockdown I want to make it clear that the measures we are proposing and which we have now introduced are the way exactly, the way that a complete lockdown does not come. In fact, we've closed down 3% of the economy with these measures to keep 97% of the economy working, to keep us working industry, factories, plants, to keep companies alive and to keep people getting paid. In Varazdin County 62,000 people were employed, of which 2,000 were in the catering industry, so 60,000 and 2,000 I think the numbers and ratios here are quite clear. As all EU countries recognized, except for now, Estonia and Croatia, that the hotspots of catering facilities and activities where there is direct physical contact in a closed area for a long time, so the closure of these facilities along with, of course, a whole series of far more stringent measures was introduced by almost all EU members. But almost all members have also introduced serious measures to help that part of the economy. Austria and Germany, for example, set a payment model between 75 per cent and 85% of traffic from November last year, with some more measures. We propose to the government the introduction of this simple and effective model that also hosts agree. When we talk about aid measures, I would really like to remind the Varazdin County here is the only county in Croatia whose employees, therefore the county and all related companies and institutions other than those in health care, gave up 20% of their salaries, made a fund as direct assistance to craftsmen during the first wave of the pandemic. And in conclusion, mocking measures, the destruction of measures that we had yesterday had the opportunity to look at in Varazdin from those who should be an example and a populist call of citizens to irresponsibility is a safe way into the new unfortunately completely unnecessary human tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14803	This brings us to the end of the speech of our clubs representatives and independent representatives, and we now move on to amendments and a declaration on amendments to the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for '21. And a projection for '22. and '23. Mr. With the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for '21. And a projection for '22. and '23. The proposals for the financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries for 2021 and the projection of the '22 plans are also submitted. and '23. explain: Croatian Waters Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Rehabilitation of Banks, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, Croatian Highways, Autocesta Rijeka-Zagreb, HZ Travel and HZ Infrastructure. The debate is closed, and the review of the amendments has been submitted by electronic means. Before we go to the plea, a colleague named Bakic came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14804	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to intervene, given that we believe that the Rules of Procedure have been injured and that's his. 196 which determines or guarantees the right of MPs and clubs to make amendments, so to propose amendments. We believe that a few of our amendments have been unjustly, improperly disqualified and I am also asking for a break at which time, when you give me your word, I would explain in the explanation of the pause what is going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14805	You think the amendments that weren't accepted here were properly submitted, that's right, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14806	So, for a few of our amendments that have been disqualified, we believe that they are unfoundedly removed from the procedure, i.e. disqualified, so I would try to explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14807	And now what do you want? Stanku?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14808	I was looking for a break, so I waited that, you called me...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14809	All right, it's gonna be a break. The break's gonna be approved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14810	... I have asked to explain this request for a break. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14811	Okay, now you've already spent about 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14812	I've been answering your questions, Mr. President, because of a misunderstanding in communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14813	No, no, no, that's not true, no, you first talked for at least half a minute about the first thing you wanted, here you go, you have a minute and a half more. Please, give me a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14814	3 Our amendments have been rejected on the basis of the article, based on the alleged infringement of the Article. 38. The budget law which, therefore, we reach out to the funds allocated to earlier commitments. It is about funds for investment and investment in the Three Seas Investment Fund. We believe that this is not about earlier commitments but about purpose. In addition, two of our amendments have been rejected because of the withdrawal from the item "Subition and State Guarantees for Residential Loans", however, all of these funds do not serve earlier commitments, but are visible from the explanation of the budget that there is a margin of 50 million kuna in those assets that exist for 2021 above the amount of funds that correspond to earlier commitments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14815	The apartment will be approved. A colleague named Peovic also called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14816	Good afternoon, everyone. I seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure. 196. Depriving the right to submit amendments because two amendments have been rejected by reason of violating the Article. 38. The budget law and that the above amounts to already approved subsidies. It is not in any case already authorised subsidies. The first proposes to resuscitate 50 million for subsidies and state guarantees for housing loans for the purpose of socially stimulating housing where that amount does not relate to already approved subsidies but to the 50 million kuna provided for in the new requirements. Also other equipment by combat vehicle of the infantry... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14817	Comrade Peovic, thank you very much. I'll check and see if yours can't remember now if your request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure is justified, and I'll talk to the Parliament's competent services during this session, and I'll let you know what's going on. We'll continue at 10:30. MEETING AT 10:23 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:31 AM]] A total of 331 amendments were submitted to this Decision and 20 were invalid. I hope you've cleared up what's been disputed. We'll be on our way now, so the plan is for the ministers just a second, the plan is that today we have a statement of the amendments, and those amendments that aren't discussed today, or we won't hear the explanations we'll continue tomorrow morning. We still have 33 amendments to the Foreign Law, so the plan is to do it during tomorrow morning. At 1:00 tomorrow, the club's statement, so free speech, and then around 2.30, the plan is to go with the Executive Act. On Wednesday morning, we would also vote again on the free speech and then declare the debate on the responsibility of Minister Coric. On Thursday we will work on the plan, if there will be an amendment to the Implementing Law we will also make a statement on amendments during Thursday morning and on Friday we would then vote on the Implementing Law and on all the points discussed, so you have about one schedule. And now we're starting with the first amendment to the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here is Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister, the respected Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14819	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. Otherwise, within the framework of the activities of the implementation of the National Anti-corruption Plan, sufficient resources have been planned to implement measures within the competence of the Office of Associations itself taken with the existing Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period 2015-2020, which was adopted by the HS, but also an action plan, noting that the new Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period 2021 is currently under way, in which the Office for Associations will propose measures, i.e. the education of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia or one or more local units on standards, criteria and criteria for the award of donations and sponsorships to civil society associations. These amounts have been around for the past few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14820	Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14821	Thank you very much, Mr. President of HS. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. This amendment to the public works by Dr. On behalf of the Homeland Movement, Vucilović said very well to me because we will agree that perception of both the Croatian public and the European and the world about the level of corruption in Croatia is large. So, when it comes to the world, we are third, when it comes to Europe at the top, and when it comes to Eastern Europe, we are first. We ourselves have witnessed the fact that these corrupt actions happen and even here and this new old government is in some way the victim of two corruption affairs that happened to Krš-Paden as well as the one around Slovenia and around Janaf, so within a very short time period and we think it is extremely important to work on people's education, it is very important to keep trainings, it is very important to do all possible workshops that people, especially those working in the government, have somehow educated and met as much as possible with corruption and what it means. In 2020, the same item was about 26,000 kuna, which the public must know, and in this year some half a billion according to this item of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is there therefore a decrease of 45%. We will ask for a vote on this because we believe that it is possible at this time and that we all have to submit that sacrifice to say, and that was our proposal with the item of development of civil society and cooperation with NGOs where the amount granted to them has increased to some 40 million kunas. It simply associates 100,000 kunas and then some 114,000 or 114,500 will be enough to better implement the fight against corruption. Thank you very much, and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14822	Thank you. Now let's go to the amendments that are related to the Ministry of Finance. 2nd Amendment, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14823	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. In accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Funding of Fiscal Excretions, in 2021, specifically in the development of the Ministry of Finance for the Vukovar-Srijem County, funds are planned to support the amount of €28.3 million, which is to us and sufficient and not necessary to provide added funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14824	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14825	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister. So it's a dedicated asset, in this case it would be a means to combat the suppression of mosquitoes. Namely, the mosquito problem in Slavonia,.../incomprehensible/... in Vukovar-Srijem County, but also in other counties because the following amendments are identical, only apply to other counties, is a serious problem. It is a problem that is not only a health threat, but it is also very important, but also disrupts economic activity, above all, continental tourism that has developed in the Vukovar-Srijem County, but in the other 5 counties it has quite developed in the last few years. The intensity of this amendment was in fact to avoid leaving at the will of local mayors whether and how much they would invest in the fight against mosquitoes, as if to avoid the fact that they were coming to beg, to say the words, to pray in Zagreb by means of their own government, which then gives them funds, then triumphantly return to their counties, as Mayor Anusic does year after year. So this is a serious problem to be systematically approached because under the current law, combating mosquitoes, the authorities have units of local self-government, so not regional, which is not enough because one municipality can invest very much in the fight against mosquitoes, but rather neighbouring not and then what do we get? In fact, we don't get the effect we should, and the effect that we should have is to have a united systematic fight against mosquitoes, at least at the county level, if not at the level of the region, to have results. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14826	Amendment 3, same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14827	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. The explanation is the same as in this previous one, with a notice of 2021 for Požega-Slavon County, the funds for aid amounting to 10.3 million kuna are planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14828	The same thing is therefore, as it was with Vukovar-Srijemski, with Požega-Slavon County. It is insufficient for certain municipalities or cities to invest or not invest in the fight against mosquitoes and this should be united and this problem should be systematically approached, as I said, at least at the level of the county. Namely, as the state bought canaders to fight fires in southern Croatia, Dalmatia, which is quite justified and of course, that is, fires pose also a direct threat to and life and property and this is in some ways a threat to both economic activity and health. Therefore, it is not specifically related to this amendment, but the future should be considered, that the state should also buy aircraft that would treat mosquitoes in the eastern part of Croatia, so that the problem can be systematically approached. This cannot be done without significant budgets, either at the county level, or at the regional level, and this amendment has gone in this direction, so that o, not to be left to the mayors at will to invest or not to invest in this problem, i.e. to address this problem, but to have the means to exist and to invest for this purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14829	Amendment 4, same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14830	The proposed amendment does not accept with the same explanation as in the previous 2. Just a note, Ship-Posavina County in 2021, plans to help amount to 21.5 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14831	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14832	Ship-Posavia County also has major problems in the fight with mosquito saddles. There, the same continental tourism has developed significantly over the past few years, and the nesting of mosquitoes is also a health and economic problem. Not to repeat everything I said, all arguments refer to this amendment, and I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14833	Amendment number 5, re-legislator Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14834	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. Explanation as in previous 3. As far as Virovitica-Podravska County is concerned, aid funds for 2021 are planned to amount to $12.9 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14835	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14836	So, amendments, arguments are the same, so I don't repeat them, I'm going to ask for a vote and I think I'm up for Amendment No. 3rd said, forgot to say I'm asking for a vote, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14837	We're going to the 6th Amendment, re-legate Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14838	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. Same explanation as the previous 4 because they're identical. As far as Osijek-Baranja County is concerned, the aid funds are planned at €19.5 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14839	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14840	Thank you very much. I'm going to give you a specific example from this county, which is why I've been waiting for this amendment. The town of Osijek can invest millions of kunas in the suppression and treatment of mosquitoes, and the neighbouring municipality of Bilje, whose territory is Kopački Rit, which is also the main mosquito litter, has invested 0 kuna. What's, what's the effect? Not at all. So the citizens of Osijek, the citizens of Osijek still have major problems with mosquitoes because mosquitoes do not know the administrative boundaries, they do not know where the municipality of Bilje ends, and the city of Osijek is beginning to solve this problem, and for the citizens of Osijek, but also for the citizens of all 5 Slavonian counties, we need to systematically approach this problem. The least we can do is approach this problem at the county level, I say, at least, to achieve all the results and therefore I wanted there to be dedicated funds, so in the budget, to avoid the mayors being arbitrarily determined how much money they will invest in solving this problem or not. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14841	7th Amendment, MP Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14842	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. In addition to 20 million kunas planned for the damages caused by elemental disasters, 100 million kuna has been provided for the activities of the budget stock, which can be used to finance expenditure incurred in the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, and we also have 50 million kuna planned at the positions of the Ministry of Agriculture, rural development programmes that have not yet been spent, and can be used to invest in the restoration of agricultural land and production potential affected by elemental disasters, climate and catastrophic events and up to 100% acceptable costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14843	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14844	Thank you. Here, I'll ask for a vote on this point. I'm sorry there was no hearing about this. The article on civil society support therefore provides for 216 million kuna for next year. I think in principle I'm going to say here that many associations should actually act freely, find new funding models, not depend on taxpayers, I'm saying it out of personal experience. I've run one association for 10 years with no interest in the state budget, and I believe that this proposed amount of 5 million kuna is more symbolic. In fact, it is a damage caused by the fire that broke out near Split on 17 July 2017, where the State Commission established, estimated the damages of HRK 130 million. So this is indeed a symbolic, symbolic amount for people who have not yet received answers to countless questions from competent institutions. So we're going to ask for a vote and we think that these items related to compensation for damage caused by elemental disasters need to be much larger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14845	Now we're going for an amendment that's connected to the Department of Defense. The promoter is the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. It's Amendment No. 8. Here you go. Secretary of State Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14846	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. This amendment also reduces the position of kp-45078 to be equipped with a multi-purpose helicopter amounting to 57 million kuna for the users of the MUP. According to the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projections for 2022 and '23. This position of multi-purpose helicopter equipment is located within the users of the Ministry of Defence, not with the users of the MUP, meaning that this amendment is not based on accurate links and positions and on the users of the state budget. At the same time, this amendment opens a new item kp-45079 providing helicopters of the Emergency Medical Service to the users of the Ministry of Defence. This item or position does not belong to the Ministry of Defence but belongs to the user of the MUP. So, if we take into account the real links and positions with the users of the state budget, this amendment is actually proposed to increase the funding of EUR 57 million to the Ministry of Defence in the same amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14847	Here's your testimony, colleague Bakic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14848	Thank you, Mr. President. The Republic of Croatia still doesn't have an emergency medical helicopter service. This emergency medical helicopter service we continue to operate improvised helicopters of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that this amendment should ensure the purchase of specialized helicopters for the Emergency Medical Service, and these helicopters that are now being used to return to defense purposes. In that sense, we remain on the subject of the amendment and we pray that it be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14849	We are now going to the amendments related to the Central State Office for Croats outside Croatia. We also have only one representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14850	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. Therefore, as regards the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee on the Protection of National Minorities between the Republic of Hungary and its 15th session, the principle was agreed earlier that the implementation of large minority projects implemented in Hungary was financed by the Hungarian party in the Republic of Croatia. And so far, it worked very well. I can only single out, say, in 2019. The Hungarian Media Centre in Croatia in Bilje opened, the Croatian Educational Centre "Mate Meršić Miloradić" in Sambotel, and the means for their smooth work and functioning will be provided by the state of course where these two important institutions are located. In any event, the Central State Office considers that sufficient resources are sufficient for the implementation of these activities as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14851	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14852	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, this is what you said, it all stands. However, what the Joint Mixed Committee concluded cannot and must not be an obstacle for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to allocate additional funds for certain institutions that it considers important. I always like to point out and point out and I do this here at every budget, I don't know how many years back, that the Croatian National Community in Hungary can be an example of our minority groups throughout Europe and the world by organization, by way of action, but also of commitment in preserving the culture and heritage of its language above all. You know that the Hungarian language is nothing like the Croatian language, that further efforts need to be made to preserve our identity and culture, and that is what our countrymen in Hungary really do. The Croatian theatre in Pechuh is the only Croatian theatre unless we count the one in Mostar, BiH that exists in the world. Since we allocate certain funds to the Croatian Theatre in Mostar, not to get me wrong, I have nothing against it, but BiH is the state in which the Croats are a constituent people, I believe that the team is more, at least these symbolic amounts of 2 million kuna should be allocated to the only Croatian theatre in the world outside Croatia and BiH, which is Pecuh. The more Croatians there are not constitutive people, the more they are minorities, the more they make huge efforts to preserve their identity, and this would actually be one symbolic act on the part of the Republic of Croatia to recognize their efforts, to recognize their work and value it not only with moral support but also with the real financial support. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14853	We are now moving on to Amendment No. Ten. He's tied to the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care. Mr. Vice President, will you move on?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14854	I want to move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14855	Yeah. It is an amendment to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14856	Amendment proposed. Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. According to the interpretation of the Central State Office itself, the planned funds for those financial years have been allocated for the functional work of the Office and are sufficient for the implementation activities and programmes which are in the power of the Office itself under the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of the Authority of the State Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14857	An obvious colleague of the bush, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14858	Dear Minister Maric, I am sorry that the government has rejected this amendment. So it's about exiles in the Sisak-Moslavina County about the assignment of apartments, about resolving the issue and simply from year to year, although it's promised not to solve the issue. So, I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment, the government's relationship and the amendment's refusal, we've given about 160 amendments, I see it went the way we expected. You're always looking for some kind of consent, you're looking for a consensus, we show good faith every Friday by voting on a large number of government laws, and the government on the other hand never wants to accept any amendment to the opposition or legislative proposal. We've had the most legislative proposals in the past, and you're going to say again that the opposition is not constructive, that it doesn't want to make proposals, and the truth is just different. But we don't complain here, if you're looking for such a relationship, if you don't want this one to have a normal relationship between the opposition and the authorities where what's good is accepted then don't ask us for support for any law. Do not complain that the opposition does not want to support legal proposals when you do not want to support what is good for our citizens. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14859	Amendment No. 11. Green-left block representatives' club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14860	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. By adopting the Housekeeping Act in assisted areas, which entered 1.1.2019. The Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing has assumed the obligation to provide accommodation for victims of domestic violence. The accommodation was primarily secured in state-owned housing units that this office has and manages. In situations where it is not available to an adequate state-owned housing unit, accommodation is provided in residential units of natural persons in the form of rentals. The current office has or is currently home to 20 families, and the assessment of the office is that the estimated funds amounting to 350,000 kuna for 2021 are sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14861	There you go, pal Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14862	Dear Minister, here's my colleague, I said, I'm sure this amendment will be accepted, not because here for two days it's International Day Against Violence Against Women, not because Croatia has signed and ratified the Convention on Combating Violence against Women, but because you've highlighted 20 families here, it's not about taking care of the family, it's about living care of victims of violence, especially in these times of the pandemic, we've asked for care because Croatia has not met the second condition, which is that it has secured shelters, or even county places where women could be put away, and in a pandemic time they need a transition place because they can't go to shelters if they're in isolation or isolation. So that 350,000 women, 350,000 kunas deserve victims of violence for housing is more than eyesless. It can't be that way for us to worry about victims of violence. I'd like to know when this government will feel like making a birth budget, so that it can see that 50% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who contribute just as much as men can't provide accommodation for women victims of violence? We'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14863	We move to amendments related to the Central State Office for Demography and Youth. The 12th Amendment, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14864	The proposed amendment, thank you very much, does not accept the fact that there is no legal basis for the proposed law at this time, with due respect for the intensity itself. On the other hand, the proposed reduction in the division of the Croatian Roads and the Roads Act, which says that the funds are planned at the division of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, under fuel price charges for Croatian roads. So any reduction of course would also affect plans for investment, maintenance and everything that binds the work of Croatian roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14865	Here's an indication. I'm a colleague of Paulichk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14866	Dear Minister, we believe that early Croatian society cancer is a demographic, especially in Slavonia. Croatia loses 15-20 000 people annually only by natural increase without emigration. For example, the 2001 Vukovar-Srijem County is yours. According to the census, there were 204,000 residents, 2011. 180,000, the year will probably be 150,000, and we believe that with a measure of 510 million kuna, the foster mother primarily means younger families to be born and to create more children, especially this would be a measure for families with 3 and more children where mothers would be provided with additional incomes if they do not work or if they are doing one additional fee by the state, and I think that this measure, in particular, in these passive, demographically devastationed areas, would be expressed because wages in such areas are also 30% less than average state wages. We're going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14867	Amendment No. 13th same club of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14868	The proposed amendment is also not accepted by the government. The planned funds for the activities of the added maternity leave, parental leave and equipment for the newborn child are sufficient to implement the planned measures, taking into account the fact of the funds spent in 2020. However, in this amendment as well as in previous and all those relating to demographics, I will say, of course, with due respect for the intensity itself, but you know well how much government invests in demographic restoration in different ways and visions, but we are also all aware that there is no one set of measures that can, I would call it, the crucial problem of Croatian society and Croatia as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14869	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14870	Dear Minister, here I have heard you say enough, they are enough and that you have set aside 2 kunas for this measure and 2 kunas would be sufficient to carry out a measure of 2 kunas. However, what we Croatian sovereigns must point out is that demographics, or demographic disasters that Croatia is currently facing, is the biggest problem of Croatian society. Far the biggest problem of Croatian society and then this measure of 323 million kuna compared to the budget, which is 150 million kuna, we believe that it is minimal to what could be done and try to change the demographic situation in Croatia. Unfortunately, we don't hear the government of Andrej Plenkovic talking about demographics at all, and you were also a witness during the first election campaign by Andrej Plenkovic for HS to talk exclusively about demographics and demographic restoration or a year ago at the time of Tomislav Karamark when they were also mouth full of demographics. Today, demography, demographic restoration, innovative measures are no longer mentioned, and Croatia is never worse in this regard. So Croatia disappears. Our biggest problem right now is the natural fall we're facing. Right now we have the crown we're all talking about, the crown will pass, and the demographic collapse will continue. Minister Maric I invite you to find any way to include this measure, this change, this amendment or any other measure that will give any hope to Croatian families who want to have children.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14871	We are going to the 14th Amendment again Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14872	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment will also again, with all due respect for the intensity itself, not accepted by the government. We also believe that the funds are sufficient on the basis of what has been and the implementation of the budget for this year, but I can also point out that everything related to demographics is certain that we will take care and in any way find the means to strengthen measures as we have said in the government programme itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14873	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14874	Dear Ministers, we do not think that the funds are sufficient, that we would probably at least demographically slow down, unfortunately it remains extremely high 15-20 000 at an annual level less born than the dead. On the other hand, we think that the decline of the population will take place over the years to reduce and the revenue side of the budget, and you are probably aware of that too, and your spending side will be growing from year to year, and then your national budget will be getting worse and worse from year to year, so we will ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14875	Amendment 15, MP Hajdukovic again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14876	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. In addition, with due respect for the intensities themselves, the planned resources are sufficient to achieve the planned measures, and given the fact that the funds spent in 2020 are spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14877	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14878	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, young people are a particularly sensitive group in our society that deserves special attention and protection. Quality policy for young people is also a prerequisite for full inclusion and achievement of young people, especially in relation to education, vocational training, work, recreation, healthy life, etc., etc. In light of the fact that we care about the position of young people in society, that their voice is heard and that they themselves participate in the design of policies and relations towards their population and that they are achieved in society in quality, I believe that it is important in the position for young people in the budget to be sufficient means to achieve these objectives. If we look at how much funding is now imagined or projected in this budget, it is about eight million kuna we will agree that this is a symbolic amount when we talk about this population. I have tried to be realistic here and I have asked for an increase of two million because 10 million is too little, and the goal of course is to keep young people in Croatia and that they can be fully realized here. The best policy for this, of course, is not the item in the budget, but the economic situation and the progress of the economy. It is clear that this measure alone will not keep young people in Croatia, but I think it would be a good message that the government has accepted this amendment, which is why I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14879	Amendment number 16 is the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14880	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government with the same explanation as in the previous amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14881	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14882	Thank you very much. So this amendment, as before, actually refers to the population of young people, in this particular case, to the prevention of violence against and among young people. In a medical dictionary speaking and I like to always say that when we talk about both violence and similar phenomena in society, is one kuna invested in the prevention of five kunas saved in recovery. When we talk about violence among young people who unfortunately are increasingly present and we can read in the media about many cases of abuse either physically or online, abuse does not leave only physical traces, in fact, it is mostly not physical traces but they are psychologically but different scars, inhibitions and the like that that young people who have been exposed to such violence will carry their whole lives. Therefore, I believe that the amount of four million kuna is not enough to deal with this difficult problem. Of course, there are other items in the budget that refer specifically to this and to the prevention of violence among different populations, but four million kuna is a symbolic amount that would be invested in something this important, not only for young people but for society in general, and that is why I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14883	Amendment No. 17 MPs of Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14884	The proposed amendment is accepted by the Government in a modified form in such a way as to ensure a reduction in the amount of 450,000 kuna in the framework of the division of the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself, administration activities and the management of a sub-group of expenditure on services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14885	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14886	Thank you very much for accepting the amendment. I won't ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14887	Now the amendments are related to the MUP, with us the secretary of state is respected Zarko Katic. Let's take it in a row. 18th Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14888	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. Since the funds for the activities of the civil protection system in that position are planned only for specific civil protection tasks while for all other purposes the funds are secured within the activities of A 553131 administrations and management such as expenditure on employees, material expenditure, services and other expenditure. So it's not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14889	Here's a colleague of Buck's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14890	Thank you, Mr. Honorable Mr. President. In the Republic of Croatia, the civil protection system has been negligible for years, leading to de facto its collapse. On the other hand, security challenges are increasingly caused by climate change and lead to a variety of powerful elemental disasters for which the Republic of Croatia does not have a ready response system, but rather assigns these jobs to armed forces or other stakeholders who are not trained for these challenges. The concept of Homeland Security has proved ineffective in response to the coronary crisis, the earthquake in Zagreb and the surrounding area, and we believe it is necessary to start building or restoring a strong civil protection system. We suggest that we stay with this amendment and ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14891	Amendment No. 19 again the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14892	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment. In fact, the funds in the total amount at the position of illegal migration are secured in order to prevent illegal migration that is now a very important issue and by reducing these proposed funds would endanger the protection of borders and illegal migration, thus no amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14893	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14894	Thank you, sir. Here's not to say I don't take the time to reach the next one, this is, of course, about the previous amendment. As in the previous amendment, this amendment would strengthen the civil protection system in such a way as to reserve funds for the first projects of the new civil protection system. These resources can be provided under the MIP item relating to the management of illegal migration, as civil protection could effectively contribute to the management of illegal migration. He's staying on his proposal and we're asking for a vote on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14895	The IDS representative club proposed a 20th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14896	The Government of REH shall accept this amendment in a modified form. In fact, the funds would not be secured from the position of the intelligence service but from the reduction in the division of 0,40 MUP capital project K 260056 construction, purchase and maintenance of buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14897	Here's a statement from my colleague Demtlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14898	I thank you for accepting the amendment, I will not ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14899	Amendment No. 21 MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14900	Amendment 25 is not accepted. Namely, the Sinj Police Station was renovated through energy renovation of external parts and facades, roof, etc., and a contract was concluded in the meantime for internal planning and security of funds in collaboration with cities and municipalities in the Cetina region. I'm surprised that MP Miro Bulj, who here often points out that the protector of the Cetina region is not familiar with this, that the Sinj Police Station has been restored in one part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14901	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14902	Thank you very much. I'm surprised you didn't accept the amendment before the renewal last year. Sinj Police Station was restored from the outside and it does not appear in the amendment. Last year you could've taken it, but you did it okay. But inside is a police station like from the 12th century and leave it to local self-government, and the police station has in the 21st century conditions as in the Middle Ages is amazing. And it's left to local self-government is embarrassing and equipment and people you've forgotten about in that area. That area is huge, it's an area threatened by migrants, these people deserve much more, much better equipment. I don't know when you were downstairs, were you even downstairs or were you just taking pictures downstairs? So it is a shame on you that you are the council representative who comes from that area to warn, the one who gave the amendment last year, and that I do not know it. So do you know at all, except that you've collated as HSLS's with HDZ and that someone from HDZ wrote it to you, do you know what the inside of the Police Station in Sinj looks like? Have you been, answer here I'm giving you a chance? I ask that this amendment be supported and it is shameful to transfer it to the local government of the Cetinski region. You may be ashamed of what it looks like to you police station in Sinj, me as a police officer who himself would at the beginning of the Homeland War in that police existence. I demand that this amendment be voted upon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14903	Thank you very much. We are now going to a few amendments related to the Croatian Defence Ministry. With us is Secretary of State Darko Nekic. 22nd Amendment of the Association of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14904	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome all MPs and MPs. As for the 22nd Amendment, the Government does not accept it. The proposed amendment does not specify which activity is required to increase, and the funds planned to mark the site of death in the Homeland War are in line with the plan and need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14905	Here's a statement from my colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14906	Dear Representative of the Government, I must tell you to read the amendment better once again because everything is clear inside, and if you do not know how to read that the amendment is directed to mark the victims of the victims of the Homeland War defenders in Dubrovnik and the civilian casualties in the Dubrovnik area, then you will have to go to the first basic because it says so. The second thing, I don't think we should particularly emphasize the role of the defender of the Homeland War in Dubrovnik, and I'm going to tell you that today these people don't have any monuments, nothing. Before that, he built a HDZ monument, used to comb. Like the mirror on the saws, there's no such thing today. And as for civilian victims, except so far after 30 years of unsettled status because they've been forgotten, rejected from the sides, and many of them, I suggest to you and everyone in this room, look at the movie Discovered. After that film, you will no longer have the same relationship with the Homeland War, with the civilian victims of the Homeland War, you will no longer need any instructions from the Ministry whether or not you have been well written an amendment. You'll write the amendment yourself. And you will ask that these civilian victims be given not only a monument, but that their rights be fully governed. You know why? When you look at that movie, you'll realize that your child could have been one of the unblemished. I was at the premiere of that movie. I advise you, not now as far as my profession is concerned, but really for what we should feel like honor and respect for the people who gave lives for us, so let's give them at least a monument.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14907	We're going to the 23rd Amendment, Party Representatives' Club with a name and name, Smart and Glass, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14908	The amendment is not accepted. The funds necessary for the implementation of the national programme are based on an assessment of the total resources necessary for the implementation of the health part of the programme in 4 clinical centres and according to the assessment of the clinical centres themselves. The proposed amount of funding in the State Budget proposal for 2021 is sufficient to continue the implementation of the national programme and to fulfil all obligations of the Croatian Defence Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14909	Here's a statement from my colleague Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14910	Thank you, Chairman. We ask that this amendment be voted upon. In fact, we were just looking for a certain change within the position, we asked for 3 million and 860 thousand kunas to be reduced to mark the site of destruction in the Homeland War, and for the benefit of the national programme of psychosocial and health assistance to participants and victims of the Homeland War. So it is undeniable that the anniversary marking is part of the identity, but we believe that the amount of 7 million and 700 thousand kuna and more than enough and enough to achieve proper respect for war events and casualties in the Homeland War. We also believe that people must be the center of all public policies and that people must be ahead of the anniversary. You say that the resources provided are sufficient and based on the assessment of health institutions, and I say that among our defenders and further and other victims of the Homeland War there are deep traumas that have not been sufficiently devoted to this country in the past 30 years. We ask that this amendment at least partially correct that injustice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14911	Let's go to Amendment No. 24. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14912	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the Croatian Defence Ministry has been realistically planned to mark the anniversary of the Homeland War, whose reduction would call into question the realisation of the programmes themselves. The Croatian Defence Ministry is conducting an annual tender for activities and projects under which the II memorial markings can be co-financed. svt. The war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14913	Here's a statement from my colleague, Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14914	It's very interesting what it means to be realistic about the markings. If we have allowed the destruction and damage of more than 3,000 monuments from NOB, many of them are top works and art and therefore our heritage, such as Jamonjini or Bakic's monuments. It is enough for you to go to Petrova Gora and look at one of the most modern monuments in the world at all related to the anti-fascist struggle and see what it means to mark, which means to store the memory. The government recently showed steps in what would mean the continuity of anti-fascism in Croatia. Or this government will opt for continuity, and therefore care for the monuments that we have destroyed in the last 30 years, damage it, enough to look at what happened yesterday with the monument in Varazdin, the Holocaust monument, and see where we live. If we're going to show such care for the monuments, then no wonder. To mark, as you said, the anniversary is not necessary to have so much resources, to mark, to commemorate as people, we can also through civic education, which will also be spoken about, but it is extremely important to show whether we are doing continuity with anti-fascist Croatia, whether we are keeping a memory of anti-fascist Croatia or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14915	Thank you, Secretary of State. I now call on the secretary of state at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, respected Andreja Metelko Zgombic, and we have 3 amendments related to the ministry. [[We'll ask for a vote.]] The first is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, Amendment No. 25. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14916	... Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. [[Specially enabled.]] The proposed amendment is not accepted. The proposal is not accepted because the activities of the organisations involved in development cooperation and humanitarian activities abroad have been planned to implement the commitments undertaken, and NATO's mission and operations have been planned to settle the costs of participation of members of the Armed Forces in NATO missions and operations, and activities strengthened by the law adopted in HS and because of this, the funds cannot be reduced from this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14917	Here you go, colleague Bakic, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14918	Thank you. Unlike the Government, we do not think that the funds provided for development cooperation and humanitarian activity abroad are sufficient, so we have proposed this amendment. So far, the Republic of Croatia has mostly had a policy to be present in international armed conflicts primarily with its military component. We believe that along with military missions, civilian development missions need to be strengthened since the Republic of Croatia has had enough experience in building peace in the post-war period. We think that this knowledge should also begin to share with people in armed conflicts. Therefore, we are staying with this amendment and we are praying for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14919	Amendment No. 26th same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14920	The proposed amendment is not accepted. The proposal is not accepted because activities in development cooperation are sufficient to fulfil the commitments undertaken, and when it comes to the Central State Office for Croatians abroad in accordance with Article. Ten. The Republic of Croatia's Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the Strategy on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, is a constitutional and legal obligation, and an integral part of the internal and external policies of the Republic of Croatia. The general objective of the work and establishment of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia is to ensure the preservation of national identity, and the implementation of the National Development Co-operation Strategy takes place within the framework of the activities planned for the Office and with the greatest part of its budget, the Office itself participates in the projects of the National Development Cooperation Strategy for 2020. totalling nearly 58 million kuna, which is 81% of the total budget for 2020 for the Central State Office for Croatians abroad. The following cannot be reduced by the funds of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14921	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14922	Thank you very much. Thank you for reminding us that care for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is a constitutional and legal category. However, our amendment does not question this in any way. On the other hand, this amendment is of course closely linked to the following. We think it is really necessary to increase the funds for international and development cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because this is a strong external political tool that can contribute to our better positioning. So we stay with this amendment and we pray that it be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14923	Amendment No. 27, Commissioner Mariana Petir, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14924	The proposed amendment shall be adopted by the Government in an amended form. The proposal is adopted in a way that will open new budgetary activities called ‘Help to Persecuted Christians and Other Persons in Need’ at the division of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, and deploy to the same resources from the budgetary activities of development cooperation of €1,500 000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14925	There's no representative Mariana Petyr here, so we're gonna have to vote on that proposal. Thank you very much. We are now going to the Ministry of Culture and Media, with us is the esteemed Ivica Poljičak, State Secretary. 28th Amendment of Representative Zeljko Sacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14926	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, respected MPs and MPs. Amendment No. 28 is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture and Media, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, calls for funding of the programme in culture. If the programme referred to in the amendment is registered at the invitation to tender of the Ministry of Culture and Media, it will be discussed and an appropriate decision will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14927	And here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14928	Well, I'm expressing my dissatisfaction that you haven't accepted, but it remains, it means the open possibility that you might still respect certain arguments. We need to know that the amendment is based on all EU plantings, in particular on the European Parliament resolutions and this 2006 declaration of Parliament, in order to actually preserve a culture of memories of all totalitarian regimes and the Republic of Croatia has shown its exceptional sensitivity for several years now when it is owned by one real estate in Zagreb, Vlaška 79 actually transferred this one to build this Memorial centre of victims of totalitarian regimes by the reputation of many countries of transition in which such communist totalitarian regimes ruled. First of all, we have it in Hungary, we have it in Romania, we have it in Albania, in Berlin, and so on. and we must be aware that 100,000 people have been persecuted in the former totalitarian system of Yugoslavia, Croatia and today very few have survived and there are 9,000 of them and we must do everything to prevent, repeat any future and culture of memories to make that very center live in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14929	We're going to Amendment 29, same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14930	The amendment is not accepted in practice with the same explanation as the previous amendment. If the programme of the memorial centre, the Memorial centre of victims of totalitarian regimes is a lexicon of political prisoners and the printing of political prisoners' journals is registered in the competition of the Ministry of Culture and Media will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14931	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14932	I would just like to add, therefore, that society, the Croatian Society of Political Prisoners based in Zagreb in Masarykova this year, is actually struggling with one complete ignoring and any support of our financial community. Until recently, they had some support from the Croatian Defence Ministry of 70,000 kuna, and today they don't have that either. Everything that survives survives thanks to donations and our friends outside the Republic of Croatia, and they have contributed a great deal to the freedom of the Republic of Croatia, 3016 women have been imprisoned, persecuted in the time of Yugoslav and Croatian communism, and all of this is binding on us, and it is a strong obligation for these people who died before the Homeland War, fought and sacrificed their freedom for the freedom and independence of the state of Croatia, we simply must live, with respect and drink to them as we are bound by the last 2019 EU Resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14933	Amendment No. 30th Representative Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14934	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture and Media, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, calls for funding of the programme in culture if the programme “Topana Fortress” is declared in the competition, will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14935	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14936	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, I'm not very happy with the answer. In fact, the answer is essentially expected and disappointing again for my property and people, of course, and for the people who live upstairs. Because this is how one minor requirement, such a kind of minor means that they are not able to be and the priories are definitely a indicator of what the Immotical End has been getting for years from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and these are crumbs of crumbs, and on the other hand, much more is that people to this country as such gave. But on the other hand, I agree with you, why would you give an end to what must be your electoral body year after year? So, given that you do not accept the amendment as such, I will ask for a vote on the same, and I think that cultural history and the importance of the very fortress of Topana should not be mentioned in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14937	We're going to the 31st Amendment, the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14938	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation if the programme of the arrangement of the ancient Christian basilica in the Snakes has been declared to the Ministry of Culture and Media will be discussed and an appropriate decision will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14939	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14940	So, in order not to repeat myself, I expected you to accept at least one of the domains of this resolute ministry. But I don't know if you're even aware of the importance of an ancient Christian 3 - boat basilica in the 5th century Snakes, which is not devastated, but is not something too far from the whole story. The snake nation is as much as the property people again the standard HDZ electoral body. However, all he has is gained by the blisters of his hands. As in any other aspect, and there are other amendments attached to the Snakes themselves, he's got nothing so far, I'm sad you didn't end up accepting at least this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14941	Amendment No. Agent Kujundzic again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14942	The amendment is not accepted, given that the Ministry of Culture and Media is in accordance with Article. 12. The law on the establishment and detour of the body of the state administration is not responsible for the protection of natural sites cannot provide the means for the activity, editing and protection of the human fish’s location Krševac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14943	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14944	Yeah, this one, I'm looking for a vote on this amendment as well. So you're not in charge here, and in this part where you are, let someone else register. So the story and the transfer of ping pong balls from one side to the other is definitely not again what this devastationed end in the Imot region got. On the other hand, the human fish is found as such endemic species, on the other hand, and one specific species of cave shrimp is also up there. However, the Secretary of State knows that you are not responsible for what I say. However, I wonder if anyone in this country is taking care of the fact that the Imotian province will be in the next 10 years. in the sense of people who stay up there being much rarer than the habitat of a human fish in Croatia? I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14945	We're now going to the 33rd Amendment, Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14946	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture and Media is in a position of innovative artistic and cultural practice where there are expected to be an increase in funds based on the Regulation on criteria for the identification of users and how to distribute part of the revenues from gambling in 2021. In accordance with the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy for the period '21-'23. the funds for that activity are provided in the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14947	Here's your colleague, Bucky.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14948	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We cannot reconcile with the fact that, compared to this year's budget, the funds for the visual activity programmes in this portfolio have been reduced even by 15%, we are talking about the budget, the budget proposal for 2021. The funds for programmes, theatre and musical scene activities for more than 11%, funds for literary publishing over 4%, funds for innovative, artistic and cultural practices as much as 33%, funds for international cultural cooperation for as much as 38%. Not only can we not reconcile with these facts but we can't actually believe in those figures. In particular, we cannot believe in the light of the fact that the government is proposing at the same time a tax reform which, therefore, is ready to accept a reduction in budget revenues of more than 2 billion kuna. How is it possible that in such a situation, although time is crisis and years ahead of us in many ways uncertain, how is it possible, that a segment such as culture is so less significantly funded than this year? So speaking of innovative artistic and cultural practices, we believe that further investment in cultural content and programmes is important and uncomfortable for us to remind you, representatives of the Ministry of Culture, that it is important for us to build and preserve our individual and collective and human identity. The importance of cultural programmes is further potentiated by the current crisis. Innovative artistic and cultural practices are of priority for cultural development, for the development of social cohesion and social inclusion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So we stay with our amendment. And we pray for a vote on him. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14949	Amendment 34. Green-left block representatives' club again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14950	The amendment is not accepted due to the postponement of a large number of cultural programmes that will not be maintained due to the influence of the coronary virus pandemic, the planned funds for this activity refer to international cultural co-operation are sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14951	Now on the 35th Amendment, the Party's representative club with a name and last name, Smart and Glass. But excuse me, no, you have the right to plead, yes, it is. Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14952	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I'm just not sure what you said, you said the amendment wasn't accepted, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14953	The amendment is not accepted because the funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14954	Thank you. With all that has been said before, we still remain, so we remain with our amendment. We believe that the importance of cultural programmes is further potentiated by the current health crisis. International cultural cooperation is an important mechanism of our cultural development and, of course, the transfer of good practices, the creation of a common European identity. Regardless of what is quite possible that the level and intensity of international cultural cooperation due to the pandemic will be reduced, we still believe that it is important to foresee and foresee the increase of that item in the budget for the following year. So we're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14955	Now on the 35th, as I have stated, the Party's representative with the name and last name, Smart and Glass, here's an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14956	The amendment is not accepted. The funds requested through the amendment are, in fact, the Ministry of Culture and Media to Support Independent Artists, expecting EU funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14957	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14958	Thank you. Just because we're expecting funds doesn't mean she's gonna make it, and you don't know when. With this amendment, we have proposed to remove the budget for 8 million kuna for equipment and modernisation and construction, therefore, for the supply of material resources to the MORH and to reroute this to an increase in compensation for other cultural activities. So it's culture that indirectly preserves the psychological health of the nation. Culture is our spiritual medicine, and a country that is unable to defend its culture, restore it, and under the conditions of the crown, actually enables the survival of creative cultural potentials, will not succeed in defending anything else. Free artists are severely affected by the crisis that caused the coronary virus pandemic, where the assistance they received during 2020 was not adequate. So she was enough. The item ‘Pospora to Free Artists’ is completely abolished in the draft budget for 2021 and we find this unacceptable, and it is not clear from the budget that other funds are intended for this purpose. It is insufficient to expect EU assistance. We therefore propose, in fact, that for these 8 million kunas, the amount of support from 2020 will be returned... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14959	We're going to the amendment of the same club of MPs, number 36, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14960	The amendment is not accepted because the funding for entrepreneurship in culture and creative industries is provided in the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Media in line with the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy for the period 2021-2023.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14961	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14962	Thank you. a similar argument as compared to the previous amendment. Therefore, we ask that the value of the position “material expenditures” in the Ministry of Defence be rerouted by 3 million kunas to other activities in culture. Thus, funds to promote private initiatives in cultural and creative industries have been reduced by half compared to 2019, and are also forecasting projections for 2022 and 2023. We find this unacceptable since this is a very important sector, as I said, culture is our mirror. In addition, it is a sector that has suffered a terrible loss in the pandemic of the coronaryvirus. We propose that funds for subsidies to small businesses in culture and creative industries return to that amount from 2019. We ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14963	Amendment No. 37, Advocacy Club of Independent Lists Bridges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14964	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the financing of the programme for the protection and conservation of cultural heritage are provided in the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Media in accordance with the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy for the period 2021-2023.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14965	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14966	Mr Jandrokovic, the Honored Minister Maric, Secretary of State Poljic and Mr Bukarica. The Torpedo launch ramp is UNESCO's monument of zeroth category, and by irresponsible behavior, I must say, the city's and then the state authorities, we've led it to destruction. The collapse of the roof of a monument like this is a disgrace to all those who have led the city of Rijeka, as well as to the competent institutions of the Republic of Croatia for the past 30 years. The apology has always been that, they say, is in the power of the SDP in Rijeka, at the level of the HDZ state. But unfortunately, even at a time when the government was the same, and this is the time of Milanovic's government, nothing happened on this issue. Since the fourth torpedo factory in the world, Americans have made a great tourist attraction and functional space. It is time to put aside in our society, bury some ideological war axes and do all that is good, in the interest of the Croatian people. We live in times that require a much higher degree of co-operation and cooperation of all actors on the political scene of Croatia and therefore I call on the competent ministry, please join in, accept this amendment and that we are all finally working together in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. At the end of May, Minister Butkovic and Mayor Obersnel in principle agreed to co-operate on a project to rebuild the Torpeda Launcher ramp, but until today nothing happened, it did not go into the realization phase. I'm looking for a vote for this remarkable, exceptional project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14967	Thank you. The 38th Amendment, once again by the Advocacy Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14968	The amendment is not accepted. A public invitation has been called for the funding of the cultural programme. Reported programmes shall consider and evaluate the Councils for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. If the programme of the construction and arrangement of the cinema in Karlovac is registered to the Ministry of Culture and Media, it will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14969	Here's an indication, colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14970	I don't know if I heard correctly that you accepted the amendment. I hope you've accepted the amendment, and I'm going to point out once again why this amendment is important. So it's one of the cult sites of Karlovac. It's about a movie theater. It's about a Carlovec who wasn't just a movie. The building was built in 1920, declared the cultural good of the Republic of Croatia and was a gathering place for young people until the Homeland War. After that, different transformations went through, there were business spaces, disco clubs and others, but the cinema never came back. I think that the town of Karlovac deserves such a cultural centre, one such place where the young people will gather and I hope that I have heard well and that you have accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14971	You didn't hear right, the amendment wasn't accepted, as far as I knew, but I'm a little closer so it's easier to hear. We're going to the 39th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14972	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the previous amendment. If the programme of recovery of Diocletian's basements is declared to be a competition in the Ministry of Culture and Media, it will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14973	Here's an obvious one, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14974	Thank you very much. I, too, seem to have told me that you have accepted the amendment, but I hope you have accepted it, when we talk about the basements of Diocletian's palace, it is one of the most significant resources of the city of Split, an inevitable point as part of tourist visits. We know what the town of Split, Split-Dalmatia County means for the county and Dalmatia, the Diocletian Palace. The announcements have been made in the preparation of the strategic project, so far it has not given, all the announcements have not produced any result so far, nor has anyone cared about the part very important historical, cultural, as we have said, culturally well, these are Diocletian basements and Diocletian's palaces that have been forgotten. We need to know, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, that Split-Dalmatia County and Split is giving huge funds to our budget, to the state budget. In addition to the promises you make at the government meetings in Split of 2 billion kuna for projects, up until now, 3 years ago you invested 0 kuna, this government in Split-Dalmatia County, and we call for tourism. We're all aware of the importance, so Diocletian's palace and these basements. Obviously, you don't have the will to do that, I suggested 300 million kuna, i.e. to restore and protect Diocletian's basements and to bring this tourist offer to the city of Split, Split-Dalmatia County and, of course, to the entire Croatian tourist offer and I hope I heard well, that you have accepted this amendment because the empty promises you made are also Diocletian's palace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14975	The amendment was not accepted, just to inform you. My colleagues Peović, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14976	Yes, I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. 196, denying the right to submit amendments and.../incomprehensible/... meaning oral consultations with Minister Maric, we would like to explain once again what the problem is, we may...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14977	Comrade Peovic, just a second. So this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you feel that your amendment should be included, and it is not, please contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system Yeah, yeah, that's it. [[That's what I was about to announce.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14978	But anyway, I think it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure because those amendments that are now due to come to order, we won't be able to explain them because they're rejected, so we'd like to ask to explain why because we checked, that interpretation we got on the oral path isn't true. So we didn't break the law. 38. Budget law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14979	Here is a colleague, or Minister Maric, who says he will respond in writing. So, when some amendment does not have the conditions to go into this phase, therefore in an explanation, it is decided by the competent ministry, the government and the services here in the Parliament and that is their assessment and for this reason it is not now included in that statement. If you were to use what you are doing now, then all these amendments that are not included in the breach of the Rules of Procedure could be practically discussed in the same way as those that got the green light, so please understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14980	I didn't ask to, just to say. I'm just...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14981	Okay. It's all clear to me, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14982	...if we can get at least in writing...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14983	It's a commitment. It's a commitment. Minister to give you a written explanation of what this is about. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14984	Okay, just because what we checked really doesn't match what we got orally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14985	Okay. Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, 40th Amendment, come in. And please make it clear now whether it has been accepted or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14986	So, a clear explanation as in the previous 2 amendments. The amendment is not accepted, here, once again clearly, the amendment is not accepted with an explanation, if the programme of recovery of the roof of the stadium of Pomljev declared in the competition of the Ministry of Culture and the media will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14987	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14988	Thank you very much. On the other side of Marjana is the most beautiful stadium in the world and we have to be proud of it, it's the Split Lippotica Po man. A man who was made in '79. year, so 42 years have passed since this finest stadium is rooting for Billa, who is rooting for Hajduk and is cheering for the Croatian team. Unfortunately, not so often, and we regret that at that stadium, Torcida and other cheerleading groups do not cheer more often for their team. It is not a caterer from stadiums such as some, it is a symbol of the lipote of football in Split-Dalmatia County, Croatia and all of Europe, it is about Po man. In 2015, the Ministry of Culture enrolled him in a list of protected cultural goods. The structure that holds the roof hasn't touched, it's jeopardizing people's lives. It's a heavy structure that can happen the worst, to bring down evil. You all promise for years about love, about Split, about Hajduk, about Billie, the anniversary of Hajduk who celebrated for 100 years, meaning our strongest club, the best club, the finest stadium of you deserves nothing. Dalmatia and Billy don't deserve anything. For what? I don't see any reason to protect that national symbol of the Split Lipotica Human. Which is why you're refusing this amendment, you're going to have to say it, but God forbid we remember that construction collapses because it hasn't been touched in 42 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14989	Thank you. We are going to the 41st amendment by MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14990	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as the previous one, i.e. if the problem of lighting the Đakova cathedral is declared to the Ministry of Culture and Media will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14991	Here's my friend Hajdukovic's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14992	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I don't know if the City of Đakovo or the Đakova diocese or who should be more able to report to the competition, but year after year it's the fact that they don't show up, and I have to say that the Đakova cathedral is indeed the pearl of the east of Slavonia when we talk about sacral art. Namely, the Đakova cathedral that was built between 1866 and '82. They do not cease to marvel and admire but from the very beginning of its construction. It spent seven million bricks from the Ziglana Djakova diocese, and the stone was delivered from various European countries. The draft cathedral was commissioned by our famous bishop and meena Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Vienna by the well-recognized architect Karl Rösner. The existence of such a grand church in Đakov and in the east of Croatia is, in general, a miracle, it is the fruit of Strossmayer's uncompromising vision in which he did not satisfy the average but sought the best from the art and construction of his time. The cathedral was solved by numerous works of famous painters and sculptors of that time such as Ljudevit and Aleksandar Maximilian Stajc, Johann Friedrich Overbech, Vatroslav Donegani and others. I think you will all agree that such an important sacral object in the east of Croatia deserves appropriate lighting, therefore more when you pass the Slavic highways Đakovo and Đakova cathedral are in the dark. This should be changed, especially if we have in mind and the fact that we want to develop continental tourism, I think that the visor and Đakova and Slavonia will be more beautiful with the appropriate lighting of this eastern Croatian pearl and therefore ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14993	We're now going to the four amendments of the IDS Representatives Club, the first one's number one. 42. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14994	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation. In other words, if the programme of reconstruction of the building of the Zavnica Museum of Porestina is declared to be a competition for the Ministry of Culture and Media, it will be discussed and an appropriate decision will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14995	Comrade Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14996	Thank you, Mr. President. Here we are looking for a vote on this amendment, let me just briefly explain that at the Zavnica Museum of Porestine in Museo part of the territory of the parentino of the oldest museum institution in Istria, which this year marks the 135th anniversary of the drafts in progress are works on the recovery of inter-story structures. The restoration of the Pošestin Museum is one of the main cultural policy projects of the town of Poreč, which takes place through several phases with the aim of complete reconstruction of the building and the creation of a new permanent museum lineup. On the basis of all of the above, I ask the competent authorities to make it possible to finance or co-finance works on the restoration of the Porestin Museum, the funds are needed both for construction works and for the museum configuration, and all documentation has already been completed. It is the only way to end the project for the benefit of the entire area and community. As regards the significant amount, it is necessary to include the state in the financing of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14997	We're going to the 43rd Amendment, just like I said the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14998	The amendment is not accepted. If the House of Istrian Castles programme is declared to be a competition for the Ministry of Culture and Media, it will be discussed and an appropriate decision will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u14999	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15000	Thank you, Mr. President. I am looking for a vote for this amendment and let me briefly inform you that this is the Educational Interpretation Centre of the House of Istrian Castles and represents a continuation of the entire multi-annual projects of revitalisation and networking of thematic cultural routes in the Istrian County in order to develop an innovative, cultural and tourist destination of central Istria. The costs of equipment and multimedia equipment and the implementation of tourist educational promotion activities were approved through the three-year strategic project TAKE IT SLOW funded under the Interreg VA cross-border programme Italy-Croatia 2014-2020, which began with the implementation of 1.7.2020. What is needed in the next period is the financing of the second phase of construction craft work and related activities in the estimated value of 3 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15001	Amendment 44 is the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15002	The amendment is not accepted. If the program of the Centre of Excellence... is registered to the Ministry of Culture and Media contest will be considered and a proper decision will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15003	Here you go, fellow Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15004	We're looking for a vote on this amendment as well. The existing facility was a permanent building of an old school in Grimalda whose reconstruction and redesign at the Centre of Excellence began in 2016. The aim of the project is to increase the standard of municipal and social services and increase the quality of scientific and pedagogical standards in the community in a way that brings together talented students and students from Istria each year to expand and improve their skills along with their mentors from the country and abroad. What is needed in the next period is to set up all floors, sanitary, lighting, interior carpentry and equipment, equip the facility with furniture and its necessary equipment, include multimedia and other equipment based on new technology. That cost assessment does not include financing the costs of the work of the facility itself, which is planned through a European Union project or national and regional institutions. As regards the significant amount, it is necessary to include the state in the financing of this project and to ensure the budget's resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15005	Amendment 45. IDS reps club again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15006	The amendment is not accepted. If the programme continues to resuscitate Euphrasian basilica in Poreč, it will be considered and the appropriate decision will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15007	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15008	We ask that this amendment be voted on for the reason that Eufrasiana in Poreč is one of the most beautiful preserved monuments of early Byzantine art in the Mediterranean. It was built in the 6th century at the site of the Christian Church at the time of Bishop Euphrasius and Emperor Justinian I, and is located in the bishop's complex. As it is about phase research and restoration of the entire complex run by the Croatian Restaurant Institute, there is a need to continue the rehabilitation of the basilica so that it can remain on the UNESCO cultural monument list. It is also a significant amount, and it is necessary to involve the state in the financing of this project and to secure resources in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15009	Thank you. We are now going to the amendments related to the Ministry of Agriculture. With us, Minister Marija Vukkovic is respected. Please, Minister, join us. We're going to Amendment 46. It's an independent list bridge club. Here you go. Minister, it's you. Amendment number 46.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15010	An amendment under regular number 46 is not accepted. The Ministry of Agriculture, as well as all budgetary users, has been allocated the ceiling of the financial plan for the period 2021 and the funds are planned in accordance with the same. On the other hand... A761016 Administration and Fund Management amounting to 46 million 62,000 916 kuna are planned for the payment of the material rights of civil servants and tenants, salaries, other expenditures for employees and all for the purpose of uninterrupted conduct... of the process related to those activities. For the sake of all of the above, we are unable to reduce additionally planned resources so as not to deprive material rights by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15011	Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15012	Minister, you used to be the mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. I don't think it should be explained to you in particular that Dubrovnik-Neretva County is the only county that has no resolved asylum for abandoned animals from all counties in the Republic of Croatia. I don't think that should have been explained to you and that now only thanks to volunteers in the City of Dubrovnik who care about these animals in the unregistered shelter City of Dubrovnik has no problem with that for the last 10 years, and you were the mayor at the time and you know it. And you know that there is a new asylum in the spatial plan. You know that technical documentation is ready or in the process of dating and you know that not all 15 million kuna is required, but 10 million dollars, that 5 million will give, come from the county, from the city, from donations. And today you're talking about how there's no money because you don't give anything to your employees? There aren't enough of them? Do you need any more at the ministry? Don't forget where you came from. That's where you'll come back. One day someone will ask you why you didn't give money for this. And there will be next amendments. I invite you to think about the Neretva Valley, the City of Dubrovnik, and especially in those places where you can because you are currently in that place you can help. There's no excuse. You've been given a chance. There's no excuse after that for the price of Mandarin. You're in position right now when you can do it. Everything you've promised for the last 10 years in various election local and parliamentary campaigns, now do now you have a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15013	The 47th Amendment is the same as the Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15014	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the amendment is not accepted because the equipment of schools and the modernisation of the system of vocational education is being implemented through the competent ministry and co-financed by European structural investment instruments for the time being by 2022. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, in its draft budget for the 21st year and in the 2022 projections, and in 2023, planned funds based on the realistic needs for unlimited work... The reduction of expenditure would make it impossible to implement the budgetary commitments undertaken and planned, likely leading to a lawsuit that is not acceptable for this Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15015	Here's an indication. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15016	Thank you very much. Today, even today's agricultural schools are entrepreneurs in agriculture tomorrow, and, of course, the goal is for all of us when we are fighting for self-sufficiency and self-sustainability in agriculture, which we do not have at the moment, but rather we are dependent on imports which are sad and in order for them to be competitive in order to produce on the European Union market, we need to focus on education programmes in the agriculture, food, veterinary and investment projects in the education of agricultural economies and practices, as well as on increasing the additional value of agricultural products, schools and school cooperatives. This amendment for this purpose, I have also given to improve knowledge, it is necessary to invest in the equipment of schools carried out under agricultural programmes. I have proposed a sum of 10 million kunas aimed at plastics, laboratory equipment, gardens, orchards, the purchase of new agricultural machinery, equipment for school and all the expensive means of agriculture itself. However, the fact is that agriculture in the Republic of Croatia is on the air and because we do not invest in school programmes, what have been forgotten and you do not want to admit that Croatia is not self-sustainable. We currently have 800,000 hectares of raw agricultural land, 400,000 is owned by the state. In Dalmatia alone, we have 200,000 hectares that could feed 11 million people, and we import 3 billion food products. For what? Because we don't give our children and those who have remained that knowledge and investment in knowledge. But that's why they go out and send your parents' money from the outside. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I hope you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15017	The 48th Amendment again is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15018	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. In the context of the budgetary activity A865023 promotion of agriculture and rural space value, funds are planned to finance programmes and projects of associations promoting agriculture and the value of rural space, in line with the expressed interest and assessment of the justification of meeting the criteria on the basis of a public call in 2020. The Ministry of Finance, the IRS, is in its proposal for the '21st period. Until '23. resources for the smooth work of the body planned modestly, thriftfully and realisticly, anything else would lead to an unwarranted shortfall in the material rights of employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15019	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15020	Dear Minister, you have therefore rejected this amendment, which we have sought to help our farmers, so in the area of Banovina and Kordun in Sisak-Moslavina County. You're saying additional funds would burden the budget. The funds that would really be given to our farmers would not be, would not be a burden but an investment in agriculture. You know what the problem is, Minister Vukkovic? What a fat geese you rub on your neck. Share with your party colleagues. We saw what happened on the Slavonia Project. A similar thing is down in Dubrovnik-Neretva County in the municipality of Pozerje in the town of Pločam where you please those who are close to you, and farmers are unfortunately barely joining the end. I can't provide enough financial resources. Many were expected of you, you have disappointed people in Dubrovnik-Neretva County as well as the general farmers in the Republic of Croatia. It's inadmissible to do what you're doing. We saw on Project Slavonia who was getting all the money and then you actually have the courage to tell the farmers that these funds would be a burden on the budget. You share less with party colleagues, less with your friends and friends, so it will be for Croatian farmers. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15021	The 49th Amendment again is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15022	... A842020 research and development in the fruit and vegetable sector is carried out by the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food. [[Speaker not enabled]] The planned funds are sufficient since R & D activities are acceptable within the various types of R & D operations, which the responsible representatives should of course know. The Ministry of Finance, the IRS, is in its draft budget for the period of '21. until '23. planning the funds realistically on the basis of the needs expressed and under the law, and everything else would lead to an unwarranted and unlawful shortfall in the material rights of workers whose number was reduced by a number of people 4 to 5 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15023	Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15024	Minister Vukkovic, if I heard correctly, you refused to give funding to the Centre for Agroms in Opuzen in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, you refused. Great. Then I'll remind you that it was one of your pre-election promises in 2017, 2016, 2015, that you promised people. That was your forte. Today you're telling me that I need to be responsible and know that you can't, and you shouldn't have been responsible for the citizens when you promised. Interesting. No, I'm still convinced this can be done. I supported this as well as you as a parishioner back then, and I as mayor knew that I supported it because this is good. You should not forget that, and if you become a minister of no interest to me or any farmer in the Neretva Valley, we are not interested in what the Prime Minister will tell you, which some friend will tell you, I am interested in whether a good project will come true. You're telling me that for good projects in the Neretva Valley, there's no money in Kutina and other counties. Why? Because maybe there's money for the Slavonia projects? We see that there's money for it and there's ways to do it, there's channels to give them money. The center for agrumes is what should happen in the Neretva Valley if families involved in the production of Mandarins will remain in the Neretva Valley. Remember, you will return to the valley of Neretva. You promised that when you were responsible, the price of Mandarin would never fall below 3 kuna. It's your promise from the election campaign, the second time in a row you're a minister, you don't even give it to the Center for Agrume.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15025	We're going to the 50th Amendment of the National Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15026	The amendment is not accepted. The projection of the revenue from the benefit for the use of the OCFSH is realistically planned on the basis of the predictable income or the receipt of the payer of the fee in question. The funds referred to in Article A 568060 are necessary to finance the obligations of game insurance, and for the first time the plan and the insurance of crops against game damage is planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15027	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15028	Your Honors Minister. The budget provides significant means to improve hunting, and we welcome this decision to protect itself, i.e. to secure funds from which not only the damage caused by savages will be paid in possible traffic accidents. We also know that often people have problems because for carrying out responsibilities, financial responsibilities are often responsible for hunting societies in the area and then there are problems with payouts, and we know for ourselves that for the past few years, there have been problems with the entry of savages into agricultural holdings and the damages that have lasted for decades and on crops, and here we have a problem with people in Lica with growing numbers of herds, prides of wolves that harm sheep or goats, and we fully understand that. However, we would like to remind once again as the Homeland Movement that the promotion of hunting or the provision of such funds is absolutely necessary, but that you may try to find the costs in further commercialisation of hunting sites through hunting tourism, the more effective payment of concession fees or their possible increase, and of course we will seek a vote on this amendment or we are looking for it. OkFŠ uses a good part of the funds for demining and for fire, raising new and rehabilitating and restoring existing forest deposits, and we believe that this may be a good goal in which this means should be directed, so we are looking for a vote, maybe something happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15029	Now we're going to the four amendments to MP Zeljko Lenart. The first one is no. 51. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15030	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Funding for the development of livestock production and the management of registers amounting to 4 million kuna 959 thousand include the acquisition of funds for the labelling of sheep, goats, cattle, etc. and protected forms in order to monitor the traceability of products of animal origin. They were planned precisely on the basis of the results so far made public procurement for this purpose. Vehicles on the other hand shall be planned at a minimum amount for the replacement of fully-sufficient vehicles and shall be exclusively for field officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15031	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15032	Thank you. Dear Minister, with this amendment, I asked them to return funds to last year's level, the item was reduced by a million kuna. We believe that, in the development of livestock, there is still more places and beyond that where it could be used at least at this last year level that was planned, and that means that this is proof that our livestock production is constantly dropping, which is why we asked... at last year's level to try to get it back to the levels that were. This reduction only says that agriculture fails every day in this segment. We're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15033	The 52nd Amendment is the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15034	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The amendment is not accepted. Funding of programme activities and assistance to the livestock and pigmeat sector amounting to 30 million kunas shall be planned in accordance with the national limit for support of small value in accordance with eu-regulatory. Namely, Croatia's Lada has never formed small-value support programmes in recent years, so the remaining options are planned in that amount. On the other hand, the A545042 equipment with material technical means has been designed to equip the equipment with weapons and equipment for the purpose of fulfilling the missions and tasks of the armed forces in order to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia and to fulfil the commitments undertaken in international defence cooperation. The provision of material and technical means shall be carried out to improve the material element of the capacity needed to carry out the assigned tasks of all branches and armed forces units and to achieve the capabilities of the forces taken over by the Republic of Croatia under the collective equipment system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15035	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15036	Thank you. Here's the esteemed minister. Today we are at a time when pigmeat production is once again beginning to fall to the ground in view of the situations in Europe, given how many other EU members whose pigmeat is important that Croatia does not seem to subsidise their pig growers with hidden support. Our pig growers simply can't follow that pace, they can't stand the price of 6 kuna per kilogram live scales because in tov alone there's a price of over 8 kuna per kilogram live scales. When cattle production is also a problem for low prices and hidden subsidies from other EU members helping our livestock industry, we are not investing enough this year in the development and rescue of our livestock industry. That is why we have sought from the position of the Ministry of Defence because it thinks that the Croatian army should also have stable supply chains in case of emergency situations, and if we destroy our own and what little we have, I do not know who will feed our Croatian army. We are also aware that even today pork is at 50% of our needs, and unfortunately our pigs and those 50% of the products will not be able to sell or if they will sell will be below the prices that will lead to total failure. Therefore, I cannot believe that the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are not at all concerned about returning livestock to the level that was. Thank you. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15037	53rd Amendment, re-legislator Željko Lenart. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15038	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The 3 million kuna funding for the national support programme of the cow-body is planned under the 2021 budgetary activity of the T820072 programme and assists the beef and pigmeat sector, stressing that the current electronic counselling is a programme that also provides for 5 million kunas for the cow-body system, and all these programmes have led to an increase in the number of cows of 5 000 and a halting milk drop for the first time in 6 to 7 years. On the other hand, at the position of A508,000 administrations and the management of expenditure groups 323 expenditures for services are planned for telecommunications utility services, cleaning services, direct cost shares, use of air transport services, guidelines for the use of official aircraft and funds for the maintenance of the Bane Courts building have been reduced because only the necessary costs for unlimited and necessary work of the body will be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15039	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15040	Thank you. The bovine breeding system in the cow-body system is one of the most prospective ways in which cattle are kept mainly in flood pastures, karst pastures and other species of agricultural land that are not for intensive treatment and I believe that one of the systems of breeding cattle is the easiest possible to cross in an ecological way. Last year, the item for this purpose was 3 million kuna. This year there's 0 kuna. Why did we ask him to remove himself from the government? That item of the Government for Services is from 4 million and something increased to 9 million for services and therefore we asked to get off this item. The cow-body system is the production of raw materials for cattle. So we're raising bodies for this since we used to have a famous Baby Beef who went missing untraceable because of negligence. This is the possibility that, through this cattle farming system, we are just re-returning our domestic calves to be loaded in domestic torts, not importing them from the Czech Republic, Romania and sharing support for them, and domestic calves again have sales problems. I therefore appeal to you to give more attention to this system of cultivation and to separate more money for this type of production. Thank you very much. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15041	Amendment 54 is the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15042	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why development projects for areas with lower development indices and areas with natural and specific constraints in the future programming period starting in 2021 are planned under integrated territorial programmes and rural development measures, one and the other co-financed by European funds, which is more favourable for the budget and for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has fought.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15043	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15044	Thank you. The area of Banovina is a region that, after the Homeland War, has been devastated by war, but also after these war activities, has been continuously eroded by population drains. The space remains empty. The Banovina area is the highest quality area and the basis for cultivation of plums, chestnuts. There's an indigenous breed of pigs that's a banish charm and there's like the best pastures in beekeeping. However, nobody cares about the Banovina, especially agricultural production, although Gavrilovic is also located there. There's a long tradition of pig farming. However, the negligent Republic of Croatia Banovina remains empty, growing into forest land which Croatian forests are trying as much as possible to cut down wood masses as possible, and the area that is very important as shown in the Homeland War remains empty because simply no one wants to invest in agricultural production in Banovina. We're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15045	Now it's Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn. It is the 55th amendment and the last to go to Minister Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15046	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment is not accepted. The funds under the budget user 06055 state ergela Đakovo and Lipik, and within the source 11 general incomes and receipts are planned at 9 million 864 thousand 870 kuna in 2021, which is 6% higher than the current 2020 plan. In addition to these ergel funds, it also generates its own revenues by means of activities in the field of horse farming, agricultural sales and tourist activities. At the position of A508000 administrations and management, a group of expenditures 323 expenditure on services are planned means for telecommunications and municipal services, cleaning services, direct service costs, air transport, directorates for the use of official aircraft and funds for the maintenance of the Bane Court building, i.e. the necessary costs for unlimited body work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15047	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15048	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I think it's... to say how important state ergela Đakovo and Lipik is for the Republic of Croatia and how much I think it's of strategic interest to strengthen and promote the work of ergele and and 2 million kuna is a more symbolic thing. And now perhaps I would further elaborate my proposal because I was contacted by farmers from Pribislavac in Međimurje County. Namely, the breed of the Međimurje horse is extinct. These 2 million kunas could also be spent on the intervention and intervention of this breed. In fact, there are only 32 throats in Međimurje County. There may still be more throats in the region of the Republic of Croatia, but then that's a negligible number. Although the species considered endangered should be much less unique or much less throats. You'll agree with me that 32 is not a large number. The more those throats are as common as the man who came to me, the more private breeders who can't afford them have 2 or 3 or 5 throats, the more they usually have a few throats. And if we want to save this breed from extinction now is the time to react. These 2 million kunas, although it is the Ergels of Lipicans Đakovo and Lipik, could have been spent in intervention care or in designing the salvation of this breed. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15049	I thank the minister. We are now moving to amendments related to the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. With us is State Secretary Memorial Đuric, please. We're starting with Amendment No. 56. Thank you very much. It is an amendment to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15050	... HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, esteemed MPs and MPs. [[Speaker not enabled]] The proposed amendment is not accepted with the explanation that the AFCOS office is located in the Ministry of Finance and has always been one of the activities within the Ministry of Finance, and cooperation that the Central Finance and Negotiation Agency and our relevant EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds exist on a regular basis, additional funds for such a matter are not needed, nor are they planned in our division for this or for the following year, nor in the projections for the next 2nd year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15051	Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15052	So, it's so important to you to fight corruption that the European Anti-Fraud Office, so you don't want to help, you don't want to have and strengthen one of these bodies that should serve prevention, so fraud is illegal, but I'm not surprised by this government. So, Prime Minister Plenkovic boasts that he is some kind of stegonist in the fight against corruption, and his affairs break out from day to day, protecting his coalition partners Zeljko Kerum and Milan Bandic, making non-principle agreements with them, trading with them concessions in Split-Dalmatia County, trading with them about, and we also now see about the covid support where members of the Zeljko Keruma family receive covid support, is the same in the City of Zagreb, an affair, and it is no wonder that you do not want to allocate additional financial resources to prevent fraud. As president of the National Council for Monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, I must say that I am very disappointed because at least you could figure out how to fight corruption, so this one foresees some means to do so, but obviously you don't care about anything, you've narrowed it down in corruption, but we'll find ways to stand up to you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15053	Amendment No. 57. Again, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15054	The amendment is not accepted. Planned funds at position K758042 for the development of mountain mountainous mountainous areas in 2021. As well as the '22 projections. and in '23. shall be sufficient for the implementation of all planned programmes and activities. It is important to note that, through the planning of the next programming period, the planned integrated territorial operational programme provides for much greater amounts from the next multiannual financial framework for the implementation of all major projects in these areas as well. On the other hand, the proposed reduction to the detailed resources at the position of A541000 administrations and management of the tax administration would call into question the regular business of the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15055	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15056	Thank you very much, thank you very much. I'd just...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15057	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15058	I'd just say that the coverage and classification of JLS that was laid down by the Law on Mountain Mountain Areas is down 85 JLS. They're empty areas. Here I am looking for the amount of funds that on these JLS, in those areas where simply most of the JLS municipalities could not achieve for one child kindergarten, let alone some other, other support. I believe that the framework and hilly, the Law on the mountainous mountainous area in undeveloped areas was passed during Minister Žalac's time purely from the piar because the Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar and also Slavonia did not have enough resources, because if we often mention Zagreb and gave ourselves to Zagreb because of the earthquake and the great disaster that was being said, it is absolutely incomparable with what happened in mountainous areas and undeveloped areas because of poor policies, not because of the earthquakes as an elemental disaster but a much larger elemental accident, not to worry about these areas. So this amount I suggested, 43 million kuna is a drop in the sea from what I gave realistically, so I thought you'd accept the support for that area, and you didn't give the law without the financial envelope, the financial framework, just for the sake of the pirate. So we have 2/3 of Croatia empty, literally empty. The only thing that exists is, so the heads of the municipalities, the chiefs who are too numerous, let's be realistic, and everything else is essentially suffering. I would ask you once again to consider and do not destroy these two thirds of Croatia that are empty, this is a matter of national security. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment to the mountain-mounted areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15059	Amendment No. 58 of the same club of MPs. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15060	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted and this is due to the fact that the amendment has not been fully reduced. Deleting planned funds at position K 587038 for the production of study, project and programme documentation of island development and for which they are re-designed, thus more than being planned in accordance with the activities to prepare the project activities defined by the Island Act. I will mention only making documentation for the island card, making a state programme for occasionally populated and uninhabited islands as well as further activities on the development and introduction of the island register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15061	Here's a statement from counterpart Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15062	Thank you. Respected secretary of state. I don't know how long and I don't know how long we're actually going to be inside our country in situations where we have a professional and competent ability to beat up these kind of resources to make some kind of strategy, some kind of project. On the other hand, we are left with specific living problems, living tissues are humans. Let's not run away from the island, so here's enough to look at people who work here in the Parliament, see if anyone asks them how they feel. So, give more than one mani of project documentation, strategy, at the end of the day, the island administration probably employs a sufficient number of people who, with their competences, expertise and knowledge, can prepare study, project and programme documentation for the development of the island, and, in particular, if we take into account their working time, distribution of jobs, knowledge, so we see no reason why we should bug these funds that are there as such. It is even more sad that you and this amendment have, as such, refused. However, given that a new Law on Islands has been adopted, and we have seen that a certain form of the Strategy for Development of the Republic of Croatia has been developed by 2030, the analyses and studies will certainly be addressed and covered by all that is needed by the islands. So we're asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15063	Amendment No. 59 again Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15064	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted because the planned resources of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 as well as projections for 2022 and 2023 in particular part 2902 are sufficient for the development of assisted areas and areas with developmental specificities to implement all planned programmes. I will again point out the integrated territorial operational programme will deal further with these areas and within the next multiannual financial framework. On the other hand, the reduction in the resources under paragraph 02515 of the Tax Administration with activities A 54100 administrations and management of the Tax Administration, expenditure on services of 30 million kuna, would put into question the regular operation of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15065	Here's a statement from my colleague Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15066	Thank you. So we asked this amendment to provide funding for regional development of assisted areas in Sisak-Moslavina County. It's a county that faces very negative demographic trends, with large evictions. It is not the only, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, a colleague of Bulj spoke about the situation in the Dalmatian Zagora in Gorski Kotar, unfortunately in our Slavonia, but here you have no hearing, you spend great resources on unnecessary things, and for what is necessary and what is necessary, and that is human resources, the human potential of keeping people in these assisted areas, you are unfortunately not investing anything. And when you have something that you represent as your PR project we've seen it end, you're going to unite all the projects like this famous project Slavonia that doesn't really exist, and it eventually turns into something that comes back to you as a boomerang, it turns out that you've assigned all the money to your party colleagues, their families. So, of course, that frustration that is born both in our people and in Slavonia and in Dalmatia Zagora, here and in Sisak-Moslavina County leads to people moving out of Croatia. If you don't change the model of the grant of financial resources, if you don't stop corruption, if you don't realize that if we run out of people that we're going to lose Croatia, I don't see that future for Croatia, but I hope it will change and of course not with this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15067	Amendment No. 60 representatives of Boška Ban Vlahek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15068	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The planned resources of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 as well as projections for 2022 and 2023 in the specific section of the K 6,80040 project co-financing amounting to EUR 200 million sufficient to ensure co-financing of all the projects remaining in the first five public calls as well as expected projects from the 6th public call for co-financing currently under preparation, and the basis of dynamics agreed with current users and planned activities on all future users' projects which will take place on the 6th public call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15069	There is no representative, so we will vote on the amendment. The same representative of Amendment No. 61. Here you go. What did you say to your colleague Gromoy? Excuse me. ... Come on, please, I've got two more amendments to the secretary of state and then I'd like to beg you because we're moving on to a new set, so here's a second. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15070	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The explanation for the refusal of this amendment is identical to the previous one because the request in the previous amendment was exactly the same, which is an increase in the funding for the items co-financing of EU projects for the 21st year and projections by 22nd and 23rd.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15071	Thank you very much. And the 62nd amendment of MP Ante Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15072	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds under heading K758042 for the development of mountain-mounted areas in the 21st year and projections for the 22nd and 23rd year are sufficient for the implementation of all planned programmes and activities from the national budget, and much higher funds, as announced in previous clarifications, will be provided through an integrated and territorial operational programme which will provide, in the next multiannual financial framework, funding between others and mountain-mounted areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15073	Here you go, colleague Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15074	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, I don't think I should be a parrot and repeat that here I am and my colleagues from the Bridge are disappointed again. In fact, you do not accept an amendment in which we are asking for a reduction in actually the items of the administration and the management of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, more specifically the ministry for which it would be better to pour ash and actually apologized to Mr Sabelak and gave him a reward at the end of the show of illegality within the ministry itself. So I don't know on the other hand how much anyone in this assembly is aware of the dead future of all units of local administration and self-government that have mountain-mounted status because the question is ultimately with this demographic picture, these investments, which or who's going to be worse in 10 years. So unless the state raises the level of investment in the mentioned and helps the environments and in terms of raising their living status and standards, I'm afraid it's going to be a deleted space. So, by rejecting this amendment, obviously consciously we accept that future that is coming, and that is a dead environment in which no one will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15075	I thank the Secretary of State and so before we move on to the amendments related to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of his colleagues, Grmoja requested a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15076	Thank you, Your Honor. Since we are a political option that has sent 150 amendments to the budget, that here is almost 13 hours that no amendment we have sent has been accepted we must consult within the club in such a way as to respond to this behaviour of the Government which no amendment as good as it is for our people in Dalmatia, on islands, in Dalmatia Zagora, in Gorski Kotar, in Primorje, in Istria, in our Croatian Zagorje, Sisak-Moslavina County, in Slavonia you reject all this. You reject amendments that go towards increasing funds to fight corruption. You reject amendments that go towards fostering agriculture. You're refusing infrastructure projects. You refuse to assist our entrepreneurs and craftsmen who have been affected by this outbreak of the coronary virus. You reject amendments that go towards providing additional funds for our pensioners. We all know what their cost is now to buy from the DVTB2 receivers. That's what you did to change the signal at a time when it's not the smartest thing to do. So you don't want to accept any amendments to the opposition. I don't know this from the Bridge you refused everything. I didn't hear anything was accepted, so you're simply showing one will. You show one haughtiness. You don't want to be cooperative in any way. You do not want us to be together and as a position and as a government to try to reach the best possible budget that will help our citizens. I'm looking for a break to consult.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15077	The apartment will be approved. But some amendments have also been accepted only because of objectivity and truth. Okay. We'll continue at 13 o'clock exactly. MEETING IN 12.42 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15078	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.59 HOURS]] We are now going to the amendments to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. I welcome Mr Tomislav Mihotic's respected secretary of state. Amendment No. 63. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15079	... MPs. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The amendment is not accepted by the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion 2014-2020 as part of the specific objective of increasing the availability of inhabited islands for their residents The county port administration of Vela Luka signed the grant agreement 29.7.2019. for the project to build the maritime passenger terminal of Vel Luka. The project planned to move the port from the center of Vela Luka to a new maritime passenger terminal in the area outside the former Jadranka factory with the aim of increasing coastal transport capacity and reduced port congestion. The project will build 3 links for public transport with the necessary parking space for port users. The total project value is 111 million 232 thousand 917.60 kuna, while the total amount of grants is 90 million 813 thousand 774.96 kuna. The resources planned by SOA are necessary for the performance of all tasks of the Agency, and for this reason it is not possible to reduce them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15080	Mr. Bozo Petrov in front of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15081	Dear Prime Minister, if I understand correctly, you refuse to invest in the ferry port of Vela Luka, so you refuse. That story we're gonna do this, you know we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this next year. Here's a recent reopening a year ago, two days ago of all the projects in Split you've been promising for 20 years, so you did it 2 years ago. promised everything again in the last 2 years. You didn't do anything. And now you're telling me that these figures, 111 million kunas, I don't know if they counted the limes, that's how it's gonna be. These are the villages of Podkin. I don't see them. People don't see them. So it's not going to happen, and so to resonate and summary everything, you're not going to build a ferry port in Vela Luka. That's what you say to citizens, we don't have hearing for you, we don't care. We don't care if 400,000 people come to that port a year, 50,000 cars, we don't care, so say it. And that's fair enough, not to lie or give. So you don't want to invest, okay. I'm very sorry, I suppose, here's a colleague of Bacic who's from Korčula, I wonder if at least a colleague of Bacic will raise his hand for the island. This needs Vela Luci, this needs islands and don't lie to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15082	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15083	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15084	64th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please welcome State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15085	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in the State Budget on the reconstruction and reconstruction of sub-building activities in public transport-opened ports of county and local importance, as well as the modernisation, reconstruction and construction of fishing infrastructure, has the means to fund 78 million kuna, of which 8 million kuna is planned on the 3632 Conte of Capital Assistance within the general budget, which will be intended for co-financing, rehabilitation and reconstruction projects of maritime goods in general use. JLS are the project promoters and bearers of all investment activities in the implementation of the projects in question. Through this procedure, we expect the Municipality of Smokvica to run with the amendment of the proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15086	Proposer, distinguished representative of Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15087	I really hope that you will find a way to help tourist places that can attract more tourists. You know what's interesting? They don't ask you for money in the end to survive and to work. And you know what they're looking for? When you take their taxes, they impose, so return something. So they fight for themselves and for their families. They will be through tourist activities, fishing activities, whatever activity they take care of themselves, and then you will come and chat them up with taxes and taxes. And then interestingly, you don't even return any of that to them, you don't, but now you're explaining to me that you, according to that item, this item, that item, that you're setting yourself, you can't give. You define those items. The Ministry shall determine how much an item will amount to. And you state what the ministry has made the decision that you can't, so that's what I'm telling you. Change your mind. That's what you've made the decision. You need to make it happen. Your salary came from the people who earned that salary in a way that they worked for themselves and their families. You have to give it to them. It's not a question of whether or not you will. You have to give them back something. I expect you to pay them back in every way possible. You understand, this is one of those ways. Give them a chance to make more money, they'll eventually pay you more, at least think that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15088	Are you asking for a vote? 65 amendments to the Advocacy List Bridge Club. Here you go, dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15089	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in the State Budget on the activities of A570219 of construction, rehabilitation and reconstruction of buildings under construction in ports open to public transport of county and local importance, as well as the modernisation, reconstruction and construction of fishing infrastructure, has secured funds of 78 million kuna, of which 8 million are planned on the 3632 Conto 3632 capital aid within the general budget, which will be intended for co-financing, rehabilitation and reconstruction projects of maritime goods in general use. The units of local self-government are project promoters and bearers of all investment activities in the implementation of the projects in question. Through this procedure, we expect the City of Dubrovnik to run with an amendment proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15090	Here you are to the promoter, the esteemed representative of Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15091	Dear Secretary of State, I am aware that you were sent here so they shouldn't come without you like yourself being able to make a decision. And what I'm saying to you right now, I'm actually telling the Ministry so that you don't take this personally, but this is what you need to hear. This is what the minister needs to hear. I don't think it's normal for every project to be rejected. I don't know when you were in the River of Dubrovnik. I don't know when you saw that chaos. I don't know if you know that Dubrovnik River is a protected landscape on the left and right of its side. And did you see what it looked like? And now you're looking for a way to get rid of it, to help. Why? Because the landscape will make the destination more attractive for tourists, more tourists will come. You will allow people to make more money for themselves and their families and to pay you more. I'm not interested in whether you're going to be guided by altruism because you want to help people get better, or if you want to be selfish, so you're better off getting more money. Whatever principle you take, it suits you and them to invest, unless you have any other logic, which is that you can't invest. So I'm wondering if you have any other logic. Because there shouldn't be any other logic in some healthy rational thinking. I expect you to invest money in this. The citizens expect it, too, from those who gave you a voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15092	Are you asking for a vote? ... 66th Amendment of the Independent Lists Bridge. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15093	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in the State Budget under Programme 3113 has the means provided to support the development, improvement of civil air transport standards. Although the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is not the competent authority of the State Administration for the operational establishment of a helicopter emergency medical service service, we note that the amendment does not determine the conformity of the helio-drum construction project in Pelješac with the existing initiative and projects to establish such service in the Republic of Croatia as well as the operational and infrastructure needs for the implementation of it. The amendment also cites the Croatian Air Force as its beneficiary, but does not specify the intention of launching the planning and certification process of this heliodroma in accordance with the regulations governing civil aviation. It is therefore concluded that the proposed helipad will also be certified and used in accordance with the regulations governing military flight in which the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is not the competent authority of the State Administration. The Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration in its draft budget for the 21st and projections for 22rd and 23rd, planned funds based on real needs for funds to ensure the smooth work of the body. The reduction of expenditure would prevent the execution of commitments undertaken and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15094	... Representative Bozo Petrov please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15095	In other words, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure refuses to build a helipad on Peljesac that is the conclusion. Now you can use different legal-formal bitches to justify why you can't do it. But I think this amendment made it very clear what was going to be done. You can see in the amendment that you could read it says that the City of Orebic does not have the power to do this financially due to such an epidemic and crisis, but that this should be done, that it is necessary for people living in that part of Peljesac to do so without it, that they cannot do it urgently to bring a patient. The first rule in medicine in a compromised patient is the rule of gold watch within the hour should be taken care of. How he'll be taken care of when you use my legal-formal hammers why you won't build a helipad. You know what, if you were there, if your family were there, if your parents were there, you'd find a way, it would be of interest to you. Now me, I'm interested in one thing, there's other parents out there, and try to get into their skin, think about it and build that helipad. You could also say as you wrote, we can write better, and we'll enable a helipad. You didn't do it. Why? Because it's not in your best interest. I'm telling you that you need to be in the best interests of your life, there are some people living there. They also need care and care, especially emergency patients, you have to do it. If you have made it possible for your own, allow them. You have to. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15096	Thank you. Next is the 67th amendment of the Boška Ban Vlahek MP, please welcome the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15097	The amendment is not accepted. A project proposed to increase the budgetary resources planned under the T754039 OP competitiveness and cohesion priority OS7 connectivity and mobility in the jurisdiction of Croatian Roads d.o.o. In accordance with the information provided by the project holder, ideas and main projects for the construction of the Nedeliste and Pusćina bypass are under way, and the construction itself is planned by the Croatian Roads plan for the period from 2021 to '23. Budgetary resources planned on T754039 for the period '21. Until '23. they are fully planned in relation to the allocation of the Allocation for the priority OS7 connection and mobility, and any increase is subject to the prescribed rules and provisions for bodies in the management and control system of use of ESI funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15098	There's no proposal. Let's move on. 68th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15099	The amendment is not accepted. In order to improve traffic flows in the city of Metković, the Croatian road company prepares the following projects, projects to resolve the passage of the state road DC-9 through the centre of the town of Metković. A study of the variant solutions of the state roadway DC-9 through the city centre of Metković carried out an analysis of the possibility of improving the traffic situation by denivelling the state road DC-9 in part at the square of King Tomislav by building the underpass, and all under the specified conditions of dense construction of the city centre. Making study documentation for the project reconstruction of the intersection of state roads DC-8 and DC-9 in the city of Opuzen, Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration is in its draft budget for 2021 and projections for '22. and '23. to plan funds based on real needs for resources to ensure the smooth functioning of the body. The reduction of expenditure would prevent the execution of commitments undertaken and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15100	Proposer is a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15101	Dear Secretary of State, for a wonderful miracle you did not accept the amendment, and you accepted everyone else, but now this one regarding my birthplace. So, you're telling me that Metkovic has no need for another bridge, although Metkovic, just so you know, after Dubrovnik's biggest city of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the most people there are, we're doomed to one bridge, you're still on the border crossing to get one 500 meters closer to that bridge, so we have bridge congestion or traffic over the bridge and in all of that and in all these variables you don't find a reason to allow people another bridge. You mention an analysis of how you're going to dig the road, surface somewhere on the other side of a mile away, is it if I understand? You'll never do this megalomaniac project, and we all know you won't. [[Clip intrusion: Yes]] It doesn't suit you. You can't make it. It's not the structure of the ground that you can make, so I was the mayor, I went through all of your analysis. It won't happen and it's eye fog. We need you to build a bridge, another bridge in Metkovic, and it can be made. I think we've paid you quite enough money in the state budget through taxes and taxes in the last 30 years, that we've earned another bridge. And don't compare us to other cities in the Neretva Valley. These other cities by population have much more crossings over Neretva. And you need to know that. You ignored Metkovic. And unfortunately, it is very likely that the mayor of Metkovic, who comes from your party, has not sent a single request for a solution to the traffic situation. Now, that's a shame, and you promised the ministers would come to Metkovic every day. since 2017, none of them have been there. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15102	69th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please welcome State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15103	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads have signed with Croatian waters a project documentation agreement for the reconstruction of D-9 and fortification on the river Neretva from the border crossing of Doljani to the center of Metkovic. The Ministry of Finance, the IRS, is in its '21 budget proposal. and projections for '22. and in '23. to plan funds based on real needs for resources to ensure the smooth functioning of the body. The reduction of expenditure would prevent the execution of commitments undertaken and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15104	Proposer Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15105	I mean, it just doesn't, it doesn't have any sense. So, you're telling me that the project that we've proposed to relieve this particular traffic problem that I put out in the last amendment, which is that we're having traffic congestion, that we can't get to the other side of Neretva at all because you left us on one bridge. You're saying you're going to use a much bigger project, a much more demanding project that takes a lot more time. For what? We gave you a simpler project. You can handle it simpler, faster for people. You don't want to. You don't want to make an extra road. And now we will listen, we in Metkovic will listen to the next 20 years as you promise us hills and valleys, the roads that go below, go up, some extra work there on Neretva and the rest as the Splits have been listening for 20, 30 years as you will promise them billions. There are no billions, neither are you in Split, nor are you in Metkovic. But I get it, the local elections are about to take place. There will be another defilement of the ministers that they, here they are now, have not arrived these four years but will now. So here I would like to explain that the next four years have not made a date on the Metkovic highway, that in the last four years they have not made us a border crossing, have not solved the bridge, have not solved the state road in the middle of Metkovic, and that is just a traffic solution without talking about agriculture. Before you, she was the Minister of Agriculture. She promised 3 kuna tangerine. It's not gonna happen when I'm a minister that it's not at least 3 kunas. You know how much mandarin is? 1 kuna and 20. These are your promises from 2017. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15106	70th Amendment of the Independent List Bridges Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15107	The amendment is not accepted. The funds under project K579319 reconstruction of the rolling stock are planned in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of the Management of the rolling stock of March 2017 adopted on the basis of point 6(2). Decisions on the terms of use of official cars, mobile phones, regular airline lines, business credit cards, means of representation and means of approval of official travel, National Journal 37/16. In accordance with the above guidelines and the recommended criteria for use and expenditure, funds for the restoration of the rolling stock are planned. In addition to the renovations, funds are planned for regular payment of the licking of meals according to previously concluded lease contracts and for the regular maintenance of the rolling stock, regular services and tyres, technical insurance costs, etc. As well as the costs of the extraordinary maintenance of the fleet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15108	Proposer, here's Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15109	Thank you very much. State Secretary Transport has the possibility of rebuilding the fleet, although I can see the vehicles are relatively good, new. However, always rebuilding the rolling stock while restoring what was needed by infrastructure projects is absolutely not so reasoned. Here you defend the possibility of this money being made on the revenue side, so even here this amendment has no expenditure, but only the income part. But you're defending it. You're defending indefensible. Infrastructure projects in Dalmatia where you come from from Split-Dalmatia County are promised 2 billion kuna for projects 3 years ago in the government. You probably were back then, too. I know that Vice President Sanader was. Since then, project 0. A quick road combination of Sinja with... With Sinja, he absolutely didn't move out of place. [[You don't understand.]] These are feasibility studies. Many projects for the City of Split, City of Sinj, so do you know that in Sinj we have a circular current that is limited by walking crossings where schools are, where we have a column from, to... to the Croats in the morning towards Split? [[You don't understand.]] More time needs to come from Sinj to Split than from Zagreb to Split in the morning. The circular current where we have a walking pass we have no overpass or underpass to D1 where the primary schools, where the secondary schools, where the shops, chains, are in the middle of the trade chains and you dare not take off the renovation of the rolling stock for a project such as an overpass or a underpass in Sinj to speed up traffic and be the safety of pedestrians. And it's a miracle that so far nothing's happened to anyone. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15110	71st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15111	The amendment is not accepted. From the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion from 14th to 20th, as part of the specific objective of increasing the availability of inhabited islands for their residents, the Luka Administration of Sibenik signed a grant contract from 1 July 2020 for the Gata-Train Upgrade project as part of the maritime passenger terminal in Luci Sibenik. The third stage of the operation is worth 32 million 205 thousand 98.6 kuna with VAT. Cost allocation has shown that the ratio of acceptable and unacceptable costs of construction of the maritime passenger terminal is 54.02% to 45.98%. For unacceptable costs in the budget, funds have been provided for the K810086 modernisation of the port area of Luka Sibenik, which are planned from HBOR's credit and the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15112	Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15113	Dearly respected means you're saying that the funds for this are secured and that's in a larger amount, isn't it? Are you all right? What?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15114	Yeah, that's right... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15115	Then I, if that's the case, then I don't really have anything to comment on and I don't really need to ask for a vote on this amendment if they are if I understand you correctly that the funds are even more secure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15117	So I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15118	Okay. 72th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15119	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian Road Society d.o.o. the location permit was issued for the rapid road section Sibenik – Drniš – Knin. Since the reconstruction of DC33 further activities on the project are under way, the project will take place according to planned work dynamics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15120	Here you go, dear representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15121	Dear Secretary of State about the road, the fast road of Sibenik-Knin has been spoken for 30 years and I don't know if you or your fellow minister have been in that area, and I suppose that when there is a day of Homeland Thanksgiving, many of them have gone there, it's about one place that needs to be helped in every way possible, the area that due to lack of quality transport infrastructure has turned into an exodus space, a space that is by development amongst the last in our country, the only thing that the Croatian state can do for this space today is to quality transport it to the coast, here specifically with the capital of Sibenik-Knin County. I believe that without the construction of a fast road in Sibenik-Knin, the city of Knin will simply have no future. The only way to keep this young thing left in Knin and generally in Dalmatia's Zagora up in the Sibenik part of the Dalmatian mountain is this, this transport infrastructure. Each day, the longer and longer the city of Knin and the city of Drnis waits, and the whole area is irrevocably going into complete indevelopment, from which unfortunately we will not be able to extract it anymore. This isn't about too much resources for the state budget, this is about the only means of project documentation, of which it moves. So I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment to see how the colleagues coming out of the region will also, meaning from Sibenik-Knin County, how they will plead on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15122	73rd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15123	The amendment is not accepted, the Croatian Road Company has agreed to produce project documentation at the level of ideas and main projects for the establishment of local and construction permits for the construction of Njivica nodes on D8. Local authorisation is currently under way and will continue to implement the project in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15124	Here you go, Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15125	Okay, okay, I'm glad you're in the process of location, but we can see that there's still no money reserved for the building itself. So, here, here I am calling you to find resources within this budget, too, because it is a traffic node that will significantly relieve, facilitate movement, traffic around the Adriatic magistrate, and I hope that the coronary crisis will pass, and then we will again have unsustainable crowds in that place, so I am also looking for an indication of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15126	Okay. 74th Amendment of the Club of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15127	The amendment is not accepted, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in the State Budget on the activities of A570219 of construction, rehabilitation and reconstruction of sub-building facilities in ports open to public transport of county and local importance, as well as the modernisation, reconstruction and construction of fishing infrastructure, has been provided with funds of 78 million kuna, of which 8 million are planned on the 3632 project of capital assistance within the general budget, which will be intended for co-financing, rehabilitation and reconstruction of maritime goods in general use. The units of local self-government are project promoters and bearers of all investment activities in the implementation of the projects in question. Through this procedure, we expect the city of Sibenik to run with an amendment proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15128	Answer the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15129	So here I am now trying to explain to the viewers what you said. So, for all public maritime interventions, eight million kunas have been allocated at state level, right? and some kind of rough approximation is that only for one fish, which is the Sibenik Riviera should be restored to such a quality that Sibenik actually belongs to over 100 million kuna. [[Intruder: Exactly.]] So that's one big, big misunderstanding, and what you know, and there were some bright examples I have to say in Sibenik, for example. The Vranaj port that such projects were financed from the budget, the state budget. So, I'm just looking for that, so what was already done is that one capital project, which is the arrangement of the Sibenik Riviera, which is extremely important for the city of Sibenik in every sense and in the tourist sense and in one sense, means that our city should be put as a priority and I will, of course, ask for a vote on this amendment and I'm sorry that you in the ministry don't see the importance of this project for the city of Sibenik, and not only for the city of Sibenik, but for the whole, whole country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15130	75th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15131	The amendment is not accepted. In the proposal for a national budget, a specific section in section 65, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure 31, transport infrastructure and communication 3109, the safety of navigation is provided with sufficient means to maintain and upgrade the buildings and business premises that are provided for use by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure for the needs of port captains of the port captains' offices. Sufficient resources have been provided on the existing A570017 shipping security activity in the account 45 expenditure on additional investments on non-financial assets 451 additional investments on construction buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15132	Proposer's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15133	Mr. Secretary of State, you're saying that that item provides maintenance funds. I want to know if the funds are specifically provided for that building because that building is in the center of Poreč on the city's coast itself, used by the port captainium in the smaller part, in most parts it is abandoned and ruined, it poses a danger to passersby and those who use that building and it is a disgrace in the visa itself. [[Intruder: Yes.]] I note that in that part of this year, the town of Poreč has arranged over 6000 square meters of water, complete infrastructure, and that building is simply in the eye. And now the problem in that budget is the state that the items you're going to make for each word are the funds, but level 4 is missing, for which projects will the funds be spent? So the port captain is using, it's an example of how the state treats state property because it's in Poreč and danger and shame. That's why I'm asking for a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15134	76th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15135	The amendment is not accepted. This project is not included in the road construction and maintenance plan. In the next period, the justification for the construction of the project in question will be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15136	Here's your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15137	Thank you for your response, Secretary of State. That's why we suggested it because we believe that this particular state road D-302 should be connected. There is one that connects the Istrian Ipsylon to Poreč. However, we know that Poreč is the leader of Croatian tourism, that it achieves over 4 million overnight stays, that a large number of tourists who come right in cars and to increase the flow, and that traffic security should be put into long-term plans to design this stock, and that is why we have proposed these million and a half kuna just to provide for project documentation so that this road can be put into a realisation plan in the next period. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15138	77th Amendment to the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15139	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects for the activities of A570219 the construction of refurbishments and reconstruction of sub-building facilities in ports is open to public transport of county and local importance, as well as the modernisation, reconstruction and construction of the fishing infrastructure of this ministry, an amount of 78 million kuna is secured, out of which 70 million are planned on a contingent of 3821 capital donations to non-profit organisations which will be allocated to projects which are registered at the invitation of the ministry and which are valued according to the established criteria. Through the procedure, we expect Port Authority Rovinj to run with an amendment proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15140	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15141	Dear Secretary of State, we ask that votes be voted for this amendment because we consider it extremely important to build 354 connections for the local population, but also what is most important and the safety of our citizens' vessels. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15142	78th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15143	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects for the A570219 activity of the construction of refurbishments and reconstruction of sub-building facilities in ports, public transport of county and local importance was opened, as well as modernisation, reconstruction and construction of the fishing infrastructure of this ministry was provided with an amount of 78 million kuna, out of which 70 were planned on a contingent of 3821 capital donations to non-profit organisations, which will be intended for projects which are registered at the invitation of the ministry and which are valued according to established criteria. Through this procedure, we expect Port Authority Rovinj to run an amendment proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15144	79.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15145	Thank you. We are also looking for a vote to include this amendment in the budget and to manage to secure capacity for 250 to 300 municipal bonds, but also to arrange the coastal belt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15146	79th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15147	Well, it's the same explanation. We expect the Rabac Port Administration to run an amendment proposed co-financing project. So the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15148	Proposer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15149	Mr. Secretary of State, to all of these amendments the same answer, 78 million kuna for all of these needs in port infrastructure. You're chasing JLS. The county and port administrations are preparing documentation, putting certain amounts into their budgets to co-finance these projects, and we don't know from the state, but you're referring us to a tender that will eventually or possibly split some money. Of all these projects, i.e. The amendment that's been... Tell us how much money should be in place of this 78 million? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And should we plan or not plan at all on a local level to implement such projects? Because this project is specifically related to the Municipality of Ras and the port of Trget started this year and should be recognised as being an extraordinary co-operation between the Istrian County, the Raša Municipality and the Labin-Rabac Port Administration. However, the project has begun to be realized, it's been spent, it's been spent, correct me, about 10 million kunas so far. And now that the work at the end is missing another 5 million kuna due to the situation in which we have met with the state budget, we're just asking for the project to be completed completely and to secure in the budget these funds, not to call us again to compete when we've already competed for it. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15150	The 80th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15151	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation and through a procedure that we also expect the Rabac Port Authority to run for an amendment proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15152	Here's your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15153	Here's the same story. So it's about port infrastructure. This project was built for the first time in 2005 on documentation, a resulting building permit, where we were then instructed by the Ministry to prepare documents worth over EUR 10 million to run for European funds and to implement these projects. About a month ago, the port administration, along with the city of Labin, built a new one, and it was new to the technical documentation, and now they have a new building permit, and it was estimated to be worth exactly 90 million kuna. Do not refer us to this call because this fund simply cannot be financed by such a project, but because it is a strategic project in the spatial plan of the city of Labin, a strategic project in the projects of the Istrian County, put it into strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia and put it in the plan that we will realize for the next 2-3 years and let's say from which funds will ensure the realization of this project because the answers you give us simply do not satisfy and you know that such a project will never be implemented in such a way. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15154	81st Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15155	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as above and through the procedure we expect the Porec Port Authority to run with the amendment proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15156	Proposer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15157	Thank you very much for your resilient response, both you and I, but the fact is that from these amendments that we have given as the IDS Club, we see what needs are in building port infrastructure. The city of Poreč also ran for 26 million kuna, namely the town of Poreč planned to build a part of the operational coast and gator with the aim of moving part of international line and excursion transport so that it can accept yachts and mega-yachts. We know that nautical tourism is becoming more popular and an increasing number of guests are looking for such services. We therefore believe that just when I am the city of Poreč and Istria County invest so much money in building this infrastructure that surely the state must also find its place to finance or co-finance better these projects. I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15158	The 82nd Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15159	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation and we also expect the Porec Port Authority to run with an amendment proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15160	Proposer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15161	Thank you for your response, Mr. Secretary of State, but this is the Port Authority of Poreč, but it is a small fishing port in the Tar-Vabriga municipality where they would like to simply build a harbor in which, in this way, they would also protect the fishing port itself, but they could also realize the bonds for and tourists who use normal vessels in this small but significant town. So that's where we have double intention and fishermen, but also connections for locals as well as for tourists. The total amount of the project is 37 million kuna. Of course Tar-Vabriga too. The Port Authority of Poreč will report to the tender, but then we'll see at the end of the year how many of those 78 million you'll be able to realize in these areas. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15162	83rd Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15163	It is not accepted with the same explanation and the expectation that the Pula Port Authority is running an amendment to the proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15164	Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15165	To think of this amount that you're talking about 77 million kunas you know yourself that won't be enough not just for, or for these amendments we've proposed. This, when we talk about the harbor at the Pula port, really protects the entire bay, and the recovery of the harbor itself could enable the ships to be accepted and thus create conditions for the development of passenger or freight maritime transport means economic activities, so we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15166	84th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15167	It is not accepted with the same explanation and the expectation that the Luka Administration of Umag, Novigrad, will run with an amendment to the proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15168	I thank you for your response, however, for the construction of the harbor and the installation of the Ponton structure at the port of Dajla-Belvedere in Novigrad for the reason that the vessel is currently allowed to be tied to floaters only. The construction of the harbor and the installation of the Ponton structure provides 60 communal fishing circuits that would relieve the port of Novigrad where there are a number of requirements and waiting lists for the links.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15169	85th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15170	It's not accepted, and with the same explanation, we expect the port administration to, that's 85. It is the Port Authority of Umag, Novigrad is running for the proposed co-financing project. [[/Intruder: 85.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15171	I thank you for your response, and I am also asking for a vote on this amendment for the reason that the existing coastal wall is in very poor condition and from Port Captain Pula, Umag Station has come an order to restore it. At the same time, the replacement of existing depletion of infrastructure would be carried out and a cabinet of electricity and water would be set up for the needs of the ship's operational coast. The project has been prepared and has already been running and a financing contract has been signed, but because of Covida-19 a procurement procedure has been stopped. As regards the significant amount, it is necessary to provide funding from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15172	86th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15173	The amendment is not accepted and through the procedure we expect the Pula Port Authority to run with the amendment of the proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15174	Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15175	Dear Secretary of State, we believe that not only infrastructure issues would be resolved but realisation would open new.../incomprehensible/... areas in the function of residents and tourism and would lead to the expansion of business opportunities and space for catering and agency companies. So we are talking again about certain economic activities and we believe that we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15176	87th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15177	It is also not accepted with the same explanation and the expectation that the Pula Port Authority is running an amendment to the proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15178	Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15179	We are looking for a vote because we think this is also important here we have 40 concessionaires related to production and service activities and this area has simply lasted and ruined and needs immediate recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15180	88th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15181	The same explanation, also expected that Pula's Port Authority would run an amendment-proposed co-financing project. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15182	We are looking for a vote because we believe that editing it would lead to several kilometers of nautical moves that would allow the development of additional content that we consider important for development and tourism, but also for certain economic activities in the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15183	89th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15184	The amendment is not accepted, the same explanation and we expect the Pula Port Authority to run with an amendment proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15185	We are looking for a vote by Lucica, namely the extension of the present port of Bunaryna and the arrangement would also lead to an increase in the security of existing ties, the number of users of Lucica would also increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15186	The 90th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15187	The amendment is not accepted as well as expected that Pula's Port Authority will run for amendment to a proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15188	Here you go, Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15189	We believe that the implementation of this amendment would increase mobility within the city and region, and when we talk about this, it is about the significant amount necessary to fit into the financing of this project and to involve the state in order to secure the funds because otherwise it will not work, so we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15190	91st Amendment of Representative Marko Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15191	The amendment is not accepted. In 2020, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure launched a series of measures to preserve the economy or transport sector at the time of the current covida-19 paneded. The main measures to preserve the entire transport system highlight the programme of State aid to the sea sector, transport, transport infrastructure and related activities in the current pandemic covid-19. That programme includes all aspects of transport and provides for assistance for small, medium and large entrepreneurs in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Those entrepreneurs may exercise the right to support provided that they are faced with a liquidity deficit because their business activity has been reduced or completely suspended due to the exceptional circumstances caused by the pandemic of coovica-19 or if they are faced with difficulties in the business resulting from the pandemic. The total amount of budgets planned under the programme is 600 million kuna, of which 100 million kunas of state guarantees have already been used in 2020. In accordance with the current dynamics of the use of State aid measures, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has provided sufficient resources for the implementation of that programme and is further considering the possibility of extending the duration of the programme. A 10 million kuna reduction in the K 777049 project would result in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs' failure to carry out the commitments undertaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15192	Here you go, Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15193	Your Honor, Secretary of State. The proposed increase is intended to address the problem of occasional passenger transport. Economic operators who operated independently and without state subsidies from the crown of the crisis, who in most cases in the past six months have experienced a decline in traffic of up to 95%. Given the current epidemiological situation and the unfavourable giving of indications coming with the covid crisis, it is clear that carriers do not see a way out of this situation without the state's active action to address this problem. Many carriers have invested significant resources in the reconstruction of the rolling stock to meet the most ecological and safety standards required by their operations. As the transport industry has often raised millions of amounts in such investments, many carriers have already raised loans before this crisis to improve their business and their liquidity or to raise loans within the covid of funds, or subsidies that go through banks through loans, have been disabled. We know that Croatia has spent the past years investing in retaining drivers in Croatia, training drivers of D category and overtraining of the cost of the state. I therefore expected the government to support this amendment and provide funds for one of the most profitable parts of the Ministry of Transport to allow them to survive in times of crisis. I'm waiting for a vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15194	Thank you. With this, we have concluded amendments to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Connection. Thank you, Secretary of State. We are going to the amendments to the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, State Secretary Dunja Magash. The 92nd Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15195	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, the MPs. This amendment is not accepted. Section 076 of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property provided funds for the recovery of damage caused by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorje County, which will be sufficient to carry out planned activities in 2021. The construction, reconstruction, adaptation of infrastructure facilities has been designed to build, reconstruct and adapt facilities and infrastructures to improve the quality of space for life and the work of workers of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, rational energy consumption, environmental protection and fire protection. This means that these activities cannot be reduced. The A545060 training and training activities are planned to achieve and maintain the necessary level of combat preparedness of the armed forces and to develop the capacity needed to fulfil the mission... the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia and the commitments undertaken in collective defence and international defence cooperation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means that these activities cannot be reduced, the maintenance activities and the material resources and systems are planned to maintain combat and non-combat material and technical means in order to bring and maintain them in a state of regularity and reliability. The first priority is to maintain the weapons and equipment needed to fulfil the missions and tasks of the Armed Forces to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia and to assume commitments in collective defence and international defence cooperation. As a result of the above, the funds for that activity cannot be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15196	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15197	Thank you. So we proposed to increase the situation for the recovery of the damage caused by the earthquake in the city of Zagreb and the surrounding area because we are looking for an increase that will allow for the resolution of more private buildings, so private apartments for the reason that most of the funds provided for come from the Solidarity Fund, and we all know that from the Solidarity Fund we can finance only the restoration of public purpose buildings. So the part that remains for our citizens and citizens to rebuild a residential, private housing fund, and only in the part where the law provides, which is to strengthen the construction of buildings, you in that part foresee funds that are barely enough to resuscitate a hundred such buildings. When, if we put this in the perspective of the long-term reconstruction of Zagreb by such dynamics, Zagreb will be restored literally 200 years because we have 25 thousand buildings to rebuild. So it was expected that in the first year, much more significant funds were given and allocated, which would allow for the urgent recovery of those private buildings where our citizens today literally cannot live. For this reason, we believe it is necessary for the Government to show that it had a serious intention to renew Zagreb and rebuild the private housing fund in the part in which we have provided for or to say, honestly to the citizens, that it gave up and that the funds provided for the private housing fund are insufficient here for Zagreb to be renewed in the perspective.../incomprehensible/... at least for the next 15-20 years because this will take 200 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15198	93rd Amendment, Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15199	The amendment is not accepted. The funds are planned on the basis of the real needs for rebuilding houses in the flooded areas of Gunja-Rajevo Selo, based on powerful court rulings. In the last 10 years, the Republic of Croatia has recorded a steady decline in total hydrocarbon reserves. From 2010 to 2020, we are talking about an average drop of 10% per year. Trend falls which is inevitably dependent on imports, can only be stopped if the Republic of Croatia continues to investigate. As a result of the research projects launched 4 years after the contract was signed, we have 3 successful findings of gas in the area of Slavonia and Podravina. If production starts from these sites, we can begin to record this negative trend already next year. In the last 4 years, as long as research on land has taken place in the budget of local and regional communities, nearly 25 million kunas of cash compensation for the area of the research area have been paid, while on the basis of benefits for the quantities of oil and gas obtained, local and regional communities and the Republic of Croatia's budgets, nearly 1,686 billion kuna have been paid in the last 5 years. Depending on the reserves acquired and the number of future exploitation fields, direct impacts for the state and local budget can be significant and up to several billion kunas per year. Major revenues will result in higher investment in infrastructure, education, improvement of health social services, etc. It should also be pointed out that domestic production and domestic products are the basis for the security of each country. In crises that simultaneously affect the whole world, countries primarily turn to their potentials, which they must exploit. It is therefore not possible to reduce resources on that activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15200	Proposer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15201	So we asked for an increase in flood damage funds because floods are one of the first symptoms of climate change that, if they haven't told you by accident, Croatia is one of the most affected countries in the EU, and those sectors that will first be affected by these climate change in Croatia are the agriculture and tourism sectors. And your explanation, I must say, is not your fault, someone prepared it for you, but has really written someone who has not heard that Croatia has agreed to the European Green Plan and has not heard us, we have agreed to reduce greenhouse emissions by 55% by 2030 and that we have agreed to the objective of climate neutral Europe by 2050. You are here talking about a project of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the amount of 350 thousand kuna. To be clear, no research for 350 thousand kuna will be carried out, however, what is being carried out is concessions for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, which Minister Ćorić hands and hat gives to the daughters of MOL because it is as if we owe MOL something else after we have given him our own oil company and now that your government has spent it all to the end and handed all the strategic resources to MOL, now, as an explanation, it serves as a necessary own production and self-sufficiency. This train with hydrocarbons was a long time ago, or what the English would say that the ship has syl, but what we can invest instead of in the projects of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons are Croatian solarisation projects, so we will really be self-sufficient, so we will really not depend on MOL or his daughter's companies. Thank you. We're staying on the amendment, of course, and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15202	The 94th Amendment, Advocacy Club of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15203	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted because the planned funds on the K-664012 project are intended for the restoration of the rolling stock for the vehicles supplied via Leasing and the commitments already undertaken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15204	Proposer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15205	You have refused so many amendments that go in favor of our citizens, in favour of our entrepreneurs, for the benefit of our farmers, but you do not give up on the new fleet. We have proposed here with a reduction of funds for the rolling stock, but it is obviously important for those faces to drive in expensive Audis, they do not want to give it up, but you want to take everything from Croatian citizens, every kuna. We suggested here to remove the parafiscal, to abolish the membership fees for HGK, for HOK cca 40 million kuna is intended for the rolling stock and this shows what your attitude towards Croatian citizens is. You're only interested in the fact that you're doing well, that you're driving in good cars, that you're taking on a set of tenders, that you're pulling money out of irregular competitions for eu funds, we see the Slavonia project that's happening, that's all that matters to you, and when something needs to be done for the citizens, then every such amendment you refuse. We strongly protest this kind of management, we ask you to reconsider whether you will buy new cars or will finally do something for Croatian citizens. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15206	95th Amendment of the Independent List Bridges Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15207	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. On activities T 664010 the arrangement of ownership of legal records on islands was planned in 2021 2 million 620 thousand kuna as well as in 2022 and 2023. The implementation of that activity shall be based on catastrian measurements. Based on the Law on State Measurement of Real Estates, Art. 8. The following is prescribed: ‘The tasks of national measurement and real estate catalogues are carried out on the basis of five-year and annual programmes. The programmes referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall determine primarily the areas where geodetic works, topographic measurements and the production of state maps, the measurement and labelling of state borders, the production of real estate catalogues and the sources of funding for the implementation of the programme. The five-year programmes are carried out by the HS, and by the government of the Republic of Croatia, on the above mentioned 2021 and projections for 2022 and 2023 are provided for the implementation of commitments undertaken from previous years. In its budget proposal for 2021 and the 2022 and 2023 projections, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, planned funds based on real needs for funds to ensure the smooth work of the body. The reduction of expenditure would make it impossible to implement the commitments undertaken and planned." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15208	Proposer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15209	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, I don't know which in a row rejected the amendment. So, it is unclear for me that with this amount here that is planned, I am not sure that you can solve the cadastrian island of Apple, not all the other Croatian islands. Therefore, in normal vision the starting point of any serious investment to attract whether domestic, whether foreign capital is the resolution of the cadastrian part of the records of course and spatial-planned documents. So, this amendment raises 2 million kunas to mention the amount, but it's obviously a problem and it's always some excuse, is but it exists somewhere on another level, is but it's planned here etc., etc. I do not know if you are aware that Croatian islands are not at the level of what they might be, I do not know on the other hand whether you are aware that the islands and all that they give to the Croatian state in terms of the budget are one form of golden coke which is a question of whether the same state is worth the right way. Finally, by rejecting all these amendments there is clear that there is this paper ideal Croatia that is miles and light years away from the reality in which we all live. On the other hand, there are, on the third hand, wages specifically paid by workers in the Assembly if anyone has ever wondered how many of these women work and what kind of income they have. Therefore, I demand a vote for this amendment, and of course for all future ones in case we skip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15210	96th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15211	The amendment is not accepted. Capital investments, reconstructions and rehabilitations into school facilities are funded by the founder. As regards potential energy recovery, the funds for the same are secured within the EU Fund for... development, for energy and the use of renewable energy sources, based on the Ministry's call. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Energy recovery and use of renewable energy sources and for public institutions where education and education activities are carried out. The energy reconstruction is already co-financed for the Jabukovac Elementary School in Petrinja, a grant amounting to 3 million 35,000 kuna, a contract signed on 9.8.2018 and the Educational School of Dragutin Tadjanović in Petrinja, a grant amounting to 3.7 million kuna, a contract signed on 22.10.2018. Refunds for energy recovery shall be granted through the open procedure of grant in the mode of permanent call, and the deadline for submission of project proposals shall be 31.12.2020 or until the available financial resources are used. In its budget proposal for 2021 and the 2022 and 2023 projections, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration planned funds based on real needs for funds to ensure the smooth work of the body. The reduction of expenditure would prevent the execution of commitments undertaken and planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15212	Proposer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15213	So I know that Sisak-Moslavina County runs this school in Petrinja where we asked to predict means 15 million kuna. But I also know that in this Sisak-Moslavina County, your compromised mayor Zinic, who manages the county in a way that wastes county money, does not invest funds in the meaning of school institutions, does not invest funds in health institutions, that the state of health and the situation in educational institutions is very bad in Sisak-Moslavina County. I'm aware you've devastated this county. When you've already devastated her, when you've pushed people like Zinic's mayor to people living in Sisak-Moslavina County, then you can also provide 15 million kuna for the primary school in Petrinja. But unfortunately you have no ear for Sisak-Moslavina County, but a similar situation on this side of the political spectrum and Žinic, and the Sisak mayoral should be removed from their positions, new uncompromised people should come in order to restore the county. So it's inadmissible that this is the condition where we have a demographic breakdown, and what few of the children we have left are being schooled under inadequate conditions, and here you are refuseing one of these amendments. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15214	97th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15215	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for municipal planning shall be provided in Part 076 of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction of State Property under item 07605 of the budget, programme 3501 of the development of spatial planning management, activity, promotion, housing and municipal economy. These JLS have the possibility to report to a tender every year, apply for the allocation of funds to manage municipal infrastructure under equal conditions for all. For that reason, the proposed amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Finance, the IRS, is in its '21st budget proposal. with projections for '22. and '23. plan funds based on realistic needs for resources to ensure the smooth work of the body. The reduction of expenditure would prevent the execution of commitments undertaken and planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15216	The answer to the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15217	It is saddened, therefore, that of the 14 MPs selected from the 6th constituency that belongs to Sisak-Moslavina County, I who have not lived there, and people have chosen me twice preferentially, I am the only one talking here about the problems of Sisak-Moslavina County, the only one who has given amendments, none of the other MPs, of the 14 MPs who have been elected. Here we had a school here in Petrinja, you refused. We had support for the farmers, farmers in the Sisak-Moslavina County, you refused. We had the help areas, you refused. And now you're refusing to resuscitate an old bridge in Sisak worth 30 million kuna. Dear Sisheni, dear Sishkenka, here's how the government treats your city, and it also means we have a situation that simply all governments have not taken care of Sisak-Moslavina County at all. And last year we were giving amendments to Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County, we were rejected. And this year, the same case. So, no amendments to the county that are in a difficult situation, besides the war, which is now affected by demographic problems, which has been affected by emigration. You are unable to accept any amendment for Sisak-Moslavina County, but we have seen here and for other parts of Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15218	98th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15219	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, or the former Ministry of State Property, gave this historic building, which is also culturally good for Istria County for use, without compensation. The ministry has also given consent to the Istrian County for the start of the construction of the building. Since the Istrian County uses most of the building and is the same day for use without compensation, we believe that the Istrian County should participate in reconstruction and reconstruction of the building. Material supply activities have been designed to provide continuous supplies of material resources to all classes and services that enable the regular operation of armed forces units, as well as the planning and efficient management of supplies due to the continuity in the supply of uniforms, nutrition, energy, utility and fuel. The provision of killings is necessary in order to preserve the ability of armed forces to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia and to assume commitments in international defence cooperation. As a result of the above, the funds cannot be reduced in this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15220	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15221	Only one in a sea of examples of how the state refers to its property. It is true that it was given to management, but the building is still owned by the state and the budget of the Istrian County for next year, it envisioned a million kunas to maintain the building. However, you also did not lead to the share of the building's benefits and customs. So we think that the state should bear the burden of rebuilding this building before anyone who works in it or anyone who passes that building happens. However, it is obvious that our country is also functioning in some future period. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15222	The 99th Amendment, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15223	The amendment is not accepted by reason as for Amendment No. 97. Therefore, funds for municipal planning shall be provided in Part 076 of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property for the activities of promotion, housing and municipal economy, and JLS shall be able to report each year to the competition and apply for the allocation of funds for the organisation of municipal infrastructure under equal conditions for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15224	Here you go, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15225	Thank you very much. I ask that this state budget ensure that the funds for the reconstruction of the markets in the narrow part of the town of Sinj, which is culturally good for the Republic of Croatia, are regulated. We know what Sinj means, which represents the biggest city and the largest area in the Dalmatian region. Just so you know, the Cetina province has more inhabitants than Ličko-Senj County, and it's bigger than Međimurje County surface. The town centre of Dalmatia and the Cetina region has beautiful squares that can be used as a tourist destination, however, I don't care whether you pray or not, but the representatives of the government to be seen by the altar on the honorary bed and on the honorary bed during Sinjska alka. All of you who have not been to Sinj must know what Sinj is, which represents Sinj within its heritage not only immaterial, Alko but also with its buildings, squares and space that needs to be arranged and the state must return to Sinj the minimum of what Sinj gives through representation through Alku, through religious tourism returned to him by the sea of the state. You have to do it. I am sorry that there are no parliamentary representatives from the 9th constituency, except for the chairman of Ante Sanader, who has been mayor for a long time absolutely since this county exists and this ministry of Sinj is devasting, but we will soon end up asking you to vote on this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15226	The 100th Amendment of Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15227	The amendment is not accepted by reason of the previous amendment or no. The 97th municipal planning means are provided in Part 076 of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, the activity of improving housing and the municipal economy, and the units of local self-government, have the opportunity to report to the competition and apply each year for the allocation of funds for the regulation of municipal infrastructure under equal conditions for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15228	Proposer Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15229	Thank you very much. I have proposed this amendment for editing one of the most beautiful squares in Croatia, that is the Sinjska market which has six entrances and entrances to the Church of the Wonder Lady of Sinjska. When I see in Zagreb how paved and glad it is, and when I look at my Sinj what it looks like and doesn't invest according to this part of our Croatia that is empty daily and neat except praise and arrival for pre-election purposes down in Sinj. Now there are elections, they will probably be promised, here let the people of Sinj, the Cetina region, the Dalmatian Zagora where their parliamentary representatives from that area, if they have a camera to show them this part where the side now, there is no one in that area of the Dalmatian mountain or mayor, you are from Zadar, now you have come in, have you heard me talk about it. It's just absolutely my Signans, the Chetinians, you who have supported and voted for the MPs who represent you absolutely do not have them here. So once again, don't put Sinj and the Cetin end on the tail, don't do it if it doesn't deserve it. Over the centuries it is placed on the tail, we did not deserve to be on the tail and we belong to that area belongs to the Republic of Croatia and this area do not only exploit as your election base that you have votes in pre-election time where hordes and columns of your party members of the arrests or I do not know who parades the City of Sinj and during the Alka and the Great Lady. So what's your face not to invest in these parts of the traffic infrastructure or as a cultural good in our centers, markets, squares, why do you do that end? Did we deserve it? But that's the end of it, that's why it's gonna end. I ask that we vote on it to see who will vote mainly in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15230	101st Amendment of Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15231	The amendment is not accepted by reason as the previous amendment. The funds for municipal planning shall be provided in Part 076 of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, the activity of the improvement of housing and the municipal economy, and the units of local self-government, shall be able to report each year to the competition and apply for the allocation of funds for the organisation of municipal infrastructure under equal conditions for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15232	Proposer of Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15233	Thank you very much. I ask by this budget that the Ploča Bridge on the river Cetina Pločati bridge from the 14th century from the surpluses of 35 sycamores on four is the cross of the 14th and 15th century, it is the area of the old Croatian church at the source of the river Cetina, the Church of St. The rescue where the coalition is the head of the SDSS Civilian Municipality, and its deputy HDZ manager, by bowing down an old flat bridge that fits into the landscape. In this area we also had protests from citizens from the top area, Kninski, Sinjski means all the way from Dalmatia, from Split conservatives rebel from the cyclone area that the destruction of this flat bridge is as they want to say that they will make an older bridge than that of the Pločno Bridge, which is from the 14th century of bankruptcy. It's just amazing how it didn't work out for you to bribe someone in this corruption, that it didn't occur to you to map the church of the 9th century of Saint Savior and throw plastic windows at them. Return the bridge to the original state, it's part of our history, our tradition, our culture, it's part of the landscape of the Cetina area, the source of Cetina you're also declaring in the first reading is the park of nature, the source of Cetina, it's close to the source of Cetina's highest source on the world and you're destroying not only what you've driven people out of these areas that aren't coming back, but you're destroying culture, tradition and history, you're erasing. So once again all fellow MPs, because the government refuses to hear this, please vote for this proposal to return the old flat bridge to its original state. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15234	Thank you to the secretary of state. Amendments to the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development follow. I welcome the Honorable Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman. Amendment 102. Green-left block representatives' club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15235	Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs, the amendment is accepted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment for the reasons that the funds in question are planned for the production of study and project documentation for public irrigation systems, and all in accordance with the requirements of the units of the regional self-government and end-users of the public irrigation system. The construction of a public irrigation system will be financed by the EU through a rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia. Additional funds for the development of the 2021 irrigation project are also provided in the Croatian Waters financial plan of 32 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15236	Proposer, Proposer, excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15237	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Zigman, I thank you for this explanation, we see that the items are related to irrigation planned in both other and other ministries. We are pleased, of course, that this is also planned into funds to be financed, funds from EU funds. However, what seems to us is why we have also proposed this amendment together with things concerning and defences against floods and fire protection and defences against fighting is that we need to strengthen our system and myths, but also adaptations to climate change, given that we are one of the countries that is most exposed to climate change within the EU, especially in the area of agriculture, which is what we now see as crucial. So we think it's crucial to strengthen those systems that will actually contribute to our resilience to climate change on the one hand, and on the other hand, as you've seen where we've proposed to cut is where there's no direct danger. So we know that very probably no one will attack us as a country next year or perhaps a year after that, hopefully, we will continue to insist that we have some lasting peace in this area, but that on the other hand there will certainly be a fight, that there will certainly be floods, that there will certainly be fires, that there will be more of them than there have been so far, and that there may be even more need for irrigation in order to have sustainable agriculture. So we're staying on this amendment and we're going to ask for a vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15238	103rd Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15239	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the recommendations of the World Meteorological Organisation and the international scientific and professional community are that the protection of agricultural goods from fighting can only be effectively resolved by physical protection, with physical protection in the form of safety nets and insurance systems acceptable to a wider circle of users. In this context, I would like to stress that through the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014 to the 20th year, significant financial resources have been provided for investment in physical assets including the construction or upgrade of a fight defence system in economies, and in particular investment in the insurance of crops, animals and plants under sub-measure 17. On the other hand, the A545042 equipment has been designed with material technical means to equip the equipment with weapons and equipment for the purpose of fulfilling the missions and tasks of the armed forces in the preservation of the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia and the commitments undertaken in the international defence industry, industry. The provision of material technical means shall be carried out for the purposes of the assigned tasks of all branches and troops of the armed forces and for the achievement of the capabilities of the forces to be taken over by the Republic of Croatia under the collective defence system. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15240	Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15241	I thank you for the explanation, as I have stated before, it is actually about protecting farmers and agriculture from the climate change that we are exposed to and the increasingly serious consequences of weather change. What we're proposing is actually somewhere at the level of 2% of the item from which it's taken, so we don't think it's some kind of over-appropriation taking into account the size of the item that we've suggested that, that it be reduced and put into defense against the fight. On the other hand, of course, we agree with this approach of physical means of defence against fighting and that it is financed through the rural development programme and we welcome that part. However, we are staying with this amendment and we will ask for a vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15242	The 104th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15243	The amendment is accepted. At the division of the Ministry of Economy and the sustainable development of the A648087 activities, adequate resources have been provided to encourage cooperative entrepreneurship between 2021 and 2023. The improvement and development of social entrepreneurship is within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy, and the resources planned for the A539100 activities relate to contractually assumed commitments, the payment of loans from earlier periods and therefore cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15244	The answer, the review of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15245	Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. Zigman, we are truly sorry that Croatia did not recognise except in principle its strategy that looks more like the vonaba transformation strategy and according to the green economy, that it did not recognise the importance of the development of cooperative and social economy. You have stated that there is something else that is envisaged in some other places, but this is a key place because just now, not only in this crisis is economical and caused by covid, but also social entrepreneurship and cooperativeism, as much as it has shown resilience, I would say innovation, and if someone has a blind spot, it's a sign of whether the historical word "cooperation" is, so let's call it cooperatives. What is extremely important is that these areas also cover what we call strengthening social values, such as solidarity, such as inclusiveness. And really if you look at where we were going to re-design the funds then it's visible that if we're looking for a green transformation, if we're looking for security, then security and our own agriculture, if it's meant for many groups as we know there's a lot of OPGs being held by the defenders today, that they're better connected, if we know that our goal is to have our children eating healthy meals, then we think that 5 million kunas that would be extra, we've asked to open a new item, so no matter where else we're supposed to be, and we'll definitely ask to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15246	The 105th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15247	The amendment is not accepted. The reconstruction of most important mountaineering homes and shelters is planned to be financed from the next operational programme period for the period from 2021-'27. And the cultural sector, along with the health care sector, is one of the most affected pandemics of the coronal virus, and any further reduction and such insufficient means of culture would question the sustainability of culture and art in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15248	Proposer of the review, please welcome Honorary Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15249	Dear Mr. Sanader, vice president of HS, respected Natasha Mikush Zigman, State Secretary. The mountaineering home on Snježnik was built in 1951. as a sports facility intended for climbers and skiers. The last renewal was made in 1974 and no work on capital maintenance has been done since then. How the maintenance and management of such an facility exceeds the opportunities of associations such as mountaineering societies in view of the weather conditions which the building was exposed to and the lack of road access home is in a building sense completely ruined and is not suitable for use. Today the mountain mass of Snow White and home on Snow White belong to the NP Risnjak. The owner of the home is a public institution, the NP Risnjak, so state. We have a situation that in NP Risnjak we don't have a single open mountain house. The mountaineering home "Josip Schlosser" which belongs to the Croatian mountaineering alliance in the category "national object" has been closed and has been more specifically threatened by the incursion of migrants. This is a big problem because migrants act like the rare bad owners not only of the passage route but of all those objects that are in their way. The second mountaineering home subject to this amendment has been completely devastated. The County of Primorje-goranska tried to resuscitate the facility in 2009, but due to the conditions of construction within the NP, the project was not implemented. The recovery was to be carried out according to architect Ivan Juretic's project. 2015 A co-financing agreement has been signed between the Ministry of Environment and Nature of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and the public institution NP Risnjak. Nothing happened. I demand a vote for this amendment and expect to be supported at the very least by all MPs from the Primorje-Gorski County.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15250	106th Amendment of the Club of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15251	The amendment is not accepted. The pollination of mosquitoes is within the competence of the health sector and units of regional and local self-government, and cannot be planned in an item within the jurisdiction of the nature protection sector. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance, the IRS...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15252	Please, if you'll excuse the secretary of state, please don't let the secretary finish. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15253	The Ministry of Finance, the IRS, is in its budget proposal for 2021. and the projections for the next two planned funds based, based on the real needs for funds to ensure the uninterrupted work of the body. The reduction of expenditure would prevent the execution of commitments undertaken and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15254	Here's the reviewer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15255	We tried through our amendments to take care of every part of our Croatia and other clubs have warned, I think my colleague Hajdukovic talked about it, I don't know if the colleagues from other parties, that it is necessary to provide funds to help Osijek-Baranja County treat mosquitoes, which is a very big problem in that county lately, we have given this amendment, we have found the funds at the administration's site, I think they can provide significant savings and help our citizens in Osijek-Baranja County with this big problem they have. Here we ask that more representatives of the ruling party consider and reflect on this amendment. We do not have to accept ours, but here are other clubs like the amendments, accept some of it, have a hearing about this big problem that the citizens of Osijek face, as well as the general Osijek-Baranja County. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15256	It's the 107th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15257	The amendment is not accepted. Similarly, on the same day of the reasoning or construction of a biogas plant in Rijeka, it is not in the jurisdiction of the nature protection sector and can therefore not be planned on the item in the jurisdiction of the nature protection sector. As I pointed out earlier, reducing the tax administration's expenditure would make it impossible to carry out the commitments undertaken and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15258	Proposer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15259	Dear Mr. Sanader and esteemed Natasha Mikush Zigman, State Secretary. We've got a situation where he's making a move, one move, we can break the Gordian knot of the wrong concepts of waste management. We have a situation where you can launch an avalanche of new circular waste management, the only one acceptable under all EU laws and all known directives. You have a chance without any pathetics, I would say, historically, to stop poisoning people in the area of the entire ring of Rijeka, Marcelli, of the poisonous Marishcina, you have the opportunity to show responsibility, to allow the residents of Viskov not to choke in the smell. You have the opportunity to stop at the very beginning the crazy idea of the city of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County to build a garbage burner in the water protection area of Sušačka Draga. You have a chance to score. Minister Coric made it clear that biowaste must be separated. These are the obligations and objectives that we have set for ourselves as members of the EU. And in the Primorje-Goran County, the situation is that out of 12 municipal societies, only four separately collect biodegradable municipal waste. Other municipal societies avoid their legal obligation by justifying themselves that they have an obligation to drive biodegradable municipal waste mixed with the rest of the waste at the Mariščina County Waste Management Centre, so that people can probably get poisoned and stink. The solution is in anaerobic dysesthesia. Without the presence of air, the decomposition of waste and the creation of gas is stimulated. You get both compost and gas. 2 resources that are natural, which do not pollute. Do not reject this project that is under all EU laws and regulations. I expect the entire opposition to support the construction of a biogas plant that would solve all waste-related problems. I expect that minimum, at least from parliamentary representatives from the 8th constituency. to invest 18 million kunas and protect health and the environment. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15260	108th Amendment, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15261	The amendment is not accepted. During 2020, Croatian waters opened a public tender and agreed on a rescue programme with a proposal for measures to remove damage to the lagoon environment in the city of Knin. The realisation of the contract is ongoing and will be completed in the first quarter of 2021, the value of the documentation in question is 446 250 kuna with VAT, and is co-financed in the same proportions as the original assets of Croatian Waters, the assets of Sibenik-Knin County, the city of Knina and the DIV Group d.o.o. The State Inspectorate, on the other hand, in its budget proposal for 2021 and the projections for the next two, planned the funds on the basis of realistic needs and the reduction of funds would prevent the regular implementation of the contractual commitments undertaken and the regular operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15262	Proposer, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15263	Thank you very much. Zagora is full of fine rivers, and we have Cetina, Krka, we have numerous tributaries, but when I see Zrmanja, of course, when I see how we treat our rivers, that along the river river itself, we have lagoons by the factory, former TVIK factory, today's DIV, what's going on? What.../incomprehensible/... I brought here in my last term even in a bottle of that liquid that's catastrophic. Often, every rain through these lagoons passes this poison, this liquid, oil, oil, enters the national river Krka to the Krka National Park. And no one's doing anything except talk about needing a recovery. Yes, you need a recovery, and I've suggested to you, the Honorable Secretary of State the amount of funds to be somewhat sufficient. You minorise the problem of water in the region of the Dalmatian mountain. You've also pushed harmful projects into the Cetina region on the Cetina River, the Peruch thermal power plant. We have a number of other miners who are turning into waste dumps that are not being recovered, which threaten drinking water and resources in the area. Do you know what kind of threat this lagoon, these pools, these bars, the oil, the oil, the chemicals that go out of the factory, or I don't know where and who's responsible for what every little river of Krk is polluting with that liquid? What's going on? In addition to 2021, it seems to me, in the first half, that it seems to me to be an election year and you're transferring it to Knin City, the city of Knin, where they're extinct, young people go, where we have no more residents, we have no children, and you're saying that he's going to pay for this, so urgently resuscitate, save the Krka River. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15264	109th Amendment, representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15265	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, by waste management plan of the Republic of Croatia for specific sites polluted by waste, so-called waste. black dots are defined project statuses and possible sources of funding. The law on sustainable waste management stipulates that the recovery of the environment in a waste-free location, as established by the waste management plan, is provided by the pollutant, and if it is unknown or has ceased to exist and there is no legal successor, the recovery shall be provided by the owner or owner of the property. Rehabilitation of toxic waste from the former Ferrolecture Factory Dalmatia Dugi Rat, is not foreseen by the plan of managing waste by the Republic of Croatia and has no basis at this time for including this cost in the state budget. However, the waste management plan has also identified measure 4-3 relating to the identification of new sites by means of hazardous waste pollution and will take into account the proposed location in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15266	Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15267	Uh, here, I'm here. Dear Secretary of State, so in 1908 I submitted the amendment, yes, in 1908, in 1998, the Ferrolegura Dalmatia factory actually stopped working. From then on, I don't know if you've been through and seen and convinced how much touristic space is alive, how much demographically good it is, however, perhaps the most specific in both Croatia and the municipal council, it seems to me that they are in the HDZ and SDP coalition. So neither, nor any other political synergy has solved this problem to this day. So I understand maybe that he's not like that in terms of recovery being thrown in, he's not perhaps in a particular jurisdiction specifically by the Ministry of the Environment, and it's also clear to me that the state of those years would take off some weight around its neck it's easily sold for some kind of handful of peanuts to someone who's actually left a condition so that it'll come to the question of the safe health of citizens and don't be surprised if you have a certain form of education on that stock. So, I'm asking anyway for a vote on this amendment, and with that vote, I would ask you as human as a man to take the authority of the ministry itself, whether or not you have any steps towards who owns the said factory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15268	Thank you to the secretary of state. Amendments to the Ministry of Science and Education follow. Dear Secretary of State Stipe Mamic. 110th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the financing of this project stems from the provisions of Articles 48 and 49 and 50. Law on pre-school education and education, which determines that pre-school education and education institutions are established in the budgets, i.e. in the budgets, units of local and regional (regional) self-government provide funding for the construction and equipment of pre-school institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15270	A review of the applicant, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15271	Thank you. Here, one amendment for our Korčula for Smokvica, for kindergarten, we know how important it is to keep people living on our islands, how important it is that children there have good conditions in their kindergartens, in their schools and this amendment we have actually proposed providing funds for the reconstruction of the Bambi kindergarten in the town of Smokvica, which would raise the quality of life on that island. The kindergarten building was built in the '50s in the last century, in the collapse, an emergency reconstruction is needed. I'm sorry here is that no amendment, for any part of Croatia, and we really thought about everything, you don't want to accept and that the government couldn't, is at least to show some good will to accept at least a few amendments, or that. I see that two amendments have been accepted of the 300 amendments that the opposition has given me. What we're proposing is a reduction is a rolling stock, it's an administration, but here you don't want to give up anything, you're not having kids in the first place, neither are the pensioners, neither are the workers, nor are the entrepreneurs, unfortunately not the citizens this will become important to you in a month or two when the campaign starts, then you'll have this mouth full of candy for them, there will be a variety of promises, but I think today the citizens can actually see how you treat them, how you treat the budget, and I hope here I hope that the citizens will know it back already in the local elections. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15272	111th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15273	The amendment is not accepted for reasons that, in addition to the funds proposed in the state budget at the position in question, the ministry has additionally provided European Social Fund funding of €321 million 81 000 over a period of 5 years under which 10,000 scholarships are granted annually. In addition to these grants 3,400 STEM grants are also awarded from the European Social Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15274	Proposer, esteemed representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15275	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Sanader and Mr. Secretary of State Mamic, I could say that I am lucky because I come from Rijeka, so in Rijeka we have a great university which the rector Snjena Prijic Samižija is truly leading impressively, and then our students are in something more favourable than some other students in the Republic. I regret not to accept the amendment again, regardless of the MOST, but from any opposition parties concerning Rijeka, which concerns the Primorje-Gorski County. We wanted to help poor students with this amendment, we wanted to help young people who had no conditions as well as other students in the Republic of Croatia to help. The key question is, what kind of Croatia do we want? Do we want Croatia from which 200,000 people have almost moved out of the last 5 years. I understand that if I wanted to be more open, I could almost say that I understand that students are not the voters of your party, but I don't want to say that, I don't want to go under the belt, but I want to be clear, if the young people are not in our focus, if the students are not in the focus of whom this country, which will remain Croatia for which Croatian defenders have died, have given us the freedom to build this society in the best direction today in democratic Croatia. I am truly very sad that you did not accept this amendment, and Eurostat predicts that Croatia will only have a little over 3 million people in 2080. If you continue to rule with this kind of youth policy, I'm afraid we'll have even less.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15276	112th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15277	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the activities in question are financed exclusively by the most priority facilities in which the safety of pupils and employees is compromised, in accordance with the opinion of the competent authorities, and the proposed funds are sufficient for the execution of contracts concluded by the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15278	Proposer, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15279	Thank you. So, we are looking here and we are looking for an amendment to the municipality of Klinč Sela, which received a new, new elementary school in 2017, but in order to be fully functional and adapted to today's educational programme and the needs of all students in the area of the municipality, it is also necessary to build a sports hall, which as such was intended for project and business planning documentation. It is therefore proposed to this amendment to ensure 5 million kuna for this. Here, but unfortunately you don't want to accept it either. We see at the time of this epidemic how important activity, physical activity, how important sport is, how much people who deal with sports are more resistant to the consequences and symptoms of this disease, so in this sense it is very important that we allow our children to practice sports and saddened that here in the municipality of Klinka Sela you do not want to support the building of a hall, a school hall for school children and happens unfortunately with this amendment as with all the amendments that we have proposed as good, as much as necessary, you reject them. But no one's going to have the gorilla by dawn, and this will all come back to you. And it would be good if he didn't come back to you with interest because to Croatian citizens, here are the messages from all over Croatia, there's a lot of this kind of behavior. It's enough of this kind of governance where you buy yourself expensive cars, where you get money from installed competitions, where there are a variety of irregularities even in competitions for European funds, and you don't want to provide funds for the key things for our citizens. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15280	113th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15281	The amendment is not accepted because the ministry has provided funds in accordance with the provisions of the Preschool Education and Education Act, which co-finances programmes for children with developmental difficulties, gifted children, children members of national minorities, and compulsory programme before school. The draft budget has already increased the funding for co-financing of the mandatory programme in front of schools from 6 million kunas 200 thousand to 8 million kuna and is sufficient for planned activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15282	Please refer to the applicant, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15283	Like this again, Sisak-Moslavina County. Here's no amendment any of the MPs gave, 14 were elected, 14 were elected to the 6th constituency. Not only has no amendment given, there's no one here today. Here are the Croatian citizens, this is your ruling majority. This is the ruling majority of you. Of the ruling majority there is Ante Sanader, vice president of HS. It's from the ruling majority when we discuss amendments to Sisak-Moslavina County. A county that is facing a demographic breakdown, where the mayor behaves as a local sheriff, where the SDP-run mammal mayor employs the failed HSP's inauguration bids. It's that county where you refused to allocate 10 million kuna to co-finance the work of kindergartens. That's how you act. You refuse every amendment to that county. You refuse amendments that go in favor of our children, for the benefit of the pensioners, for the benefit of the health care of the people in the area. And you will go there again for votes, Mayor Žinić will go again for a new mandate because you hope people forget quickly, that people forget quickly, and we all know what you were doing and how many affairs there are in Sisak-Moslavina County. There was also the crown of the mayor's party. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15284	114th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15285	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that the financing of this project stems from the provisions of Article 1(1). 48th, 49th and 50th. Law on pre-school education and education which determines that pre-school education and education institutions are established in the budgets, i.e. in the budget, units of local and regional self-government provide funding for the construction and equipment of pre-school institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15286	A review by the applicant, the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15287	Thank you very much. I asked for a few dozen playgrounds in the Dalmatian hinterland in Sibenik-Kninska, Zadar, Split-Dalmatia County in settlements, villages where children have no opportunity to have playgrounds and play sports. However, we are discussing colleagues and colleagues, dear people, look here we have some representatives from the Green-Left bloc, a colleague from the IDS Taritash, there's a colleague from the SDP, from most of them absolutely no one. Citizens, who have chosen these MPs from this area, look at the 9th constituency. Only Ante Sanader who has to be there because the vice president is otherwise and he will vote 99% against this amendment, follow whether or not he will vote, and with origin he is from the mountains, originating from the mountains. Look at the benches, and we're talking about serious things, amendments to the MPs. And also you State Secretary or Assistant Minister, I don't know what's going to change you who's on tape, I don't know if you're just sent here... pro-forma. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're not even... Not even read. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you know where these villages are that I read? Do you know where that is? Were you there? And to you, there's a great life there, isn't there? It'll be in pre-election time, and it'll be in camping time. So are you ashamed to support nothing? You don't have any parliamentary representatives here? These have brought changes to the Rules of Procedure. When the most important document is discussed, when the people pay us and travel expenses and what we stand here, they pay us to come here, and the secretary of state makes sense. Are you ashamed? You are not chosen, I have chosen, has appointed you, you are appointed by the Spirit of the World, by the Great Andrei. We're talking about serious things, we're talking about infrastructure, about children, the future of two-thirds of Croatia that are dead. So is this a shame? Look, uh...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15288	Time. 115th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15289	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the responsible holder of the common economic policy, and also as a responsible employer, has already ensured an increase in the salary of public officials for cca 20% in 2016 to 2020 and now the new growth of the basis for an additional 4% is soon to begin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15290	Proposer, MP Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15291	Dear Mr. Sanader, Vice President of HS and the Honorable Secretary of State. I am personally saddened that when we discuss students, young people, we are discussing several of these parliamentary representatives from the Green-Left bloc, a colleague from the SDP, a colleague from the IDS who is always here there is no one from HDZ. Thus, ruling people have a relationship with the opposition, thus ruling against elected parliamentary MPs, I guess that's the level of collegiacy, that's the level of openness. We are talking about children here, and the facts according to the DZS that 65,000 children have been evicted from Croatia over the past seven years. How do we treat these kids? This amendment was designed to help students of the 8th grade, it is a very stressful process for children and parents and it requires certain material resources when enrolling in the first grade of high school and we just wanted it. We said okay, let's go help the kids, let's go help the parents under these terms of the pandemic, under the conditions of the economic crisis that has affected our entire society, we've been counting on your goodwill, we've been counting on your openness to the children. Unfortunately, it seems that we have been wronged and that we will have to wait for some better time for Croatian youth, for students, for pensioners and for children in primary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15292	Amendment 115.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15293	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that it is proposed contrary to the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, which does not provide for the possibility of providing funding for these purposes in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, but rather in the budgets of the founders and co-financing holders, counties and cities, except in exceptional situations when it comes to the threat, the safety of children and employees of the school.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15294	On behalf of the Proposer. Mr. Grumoja has one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15295	Thank you very much. All the members of the HS Rules of Procedure have been injured if we parliamentary representatives are discussing the most serious here, we are giving our proposals, and in the assembly of most HDZ MPs, the SDSS, minorities all who should be here or hear what we are proposing. The state secretary of pro form here rejects amendments and this is a play by the ruling majority and Croatian government. Well, look at the esteemed vice president. Is this a serious debate about the majority's budget to hear at least the proposals of their colleagues who have been elected... to the units.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15296	Time, Mr. Bull. This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure you get a warning. The Honorable representative of Nikola Grmoja's review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15297	So we were looking for 114th amendment here to secure the funds for the construction of ten modern children's playgrounds, and also for the City of Jastrebarsko to secure the space and result in valid documentation for building a new elementary school and we asked for it to be included in the budget, but here is the amendment, unfortunately, you refuse. And as my colleague Bulj said, I don't know if you'd be angry, would you be disappointed to be here in front of an empty assembly after the government has turned down every amendment we've ever made, no matter how good it is for the citizens that we at least try to convince our colleagues here to vote in favour of this amendment. Who are we going to convince, Mr. Sanader? We just have to convince you because you have to be here on duty. Not a single member of the ruling majority has been present in the assembly while the opposition explains and defends its amendments, this has never been seen, this has never happened that there is no one in the assembly and that in this way the government boasts, rudely, without any feeling for all parts of Croatia here we have sought for the City of Jastrebar the need to build a new elementary school that you also refuse and any amendment we have sent. This is really embarrassing, and I call on you to chair this until the representatives of the ruling majority appear in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15298	The 117th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15299	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed funds are planned in accordance with existing contractual obligations and planned calls for funding of scientific research projects implemented by the Croatian Science Foundation. In addition to the budgets, the ministry will program the financing of these activities from the eu funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15300	Please don't throw it away. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15301	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. We have predicted an increase of four million kuna for this item, which is less than 4%. The realisation of the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia, of course, implies and this is many times underlined and an increase in the separation for science, research and development. Given that the research and development sector has been sub-financed, we felt that it is precisely the need to increase and increase each year. In line with the objectives of green and digital Europe, we believe it is necessary and particularly important to provide more significant funding for research and development in the field of renewable energy, climate change and adaptation. I can't even see how increased investment in science is the declarative goal of each and these governments, and yet there are no increases in this item. The amount foreseen shall be identical to that entered in this year in this budget. So we're staying with our amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15302	118th Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15303	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funding at the position of A622007 financial support to scientific associations and programmes of popularisation of science is sufficient to provide financial support for the regular activities of scientific, scientific and scientific research associations and the setting up of a programme of popularisation of science conducted by institutions in the system of science and higher education and scientific and professional associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15304	A review of the promoter, please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15305	Increasing investment in science popularity is a key prerequisite for economic development and society based on scientific objective facts. It is a key prerequisite for fighting false news and conspiracy theories that we have had the opportunity to see and have the opportunity to see during this Covid pandemic. The promotion of science between children and young people is crucial, key for their development of critical opinions as well as for further education and career development. I think it's too much to point out how important it is to promote science and a scientifically sound way of thinking. We will certainly stay with this amendment, we ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15306	119th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15307	The amendment is not accepted for reasons that no new position is needed because by making a decision on the adoption of a curricula for the inter-species topic of civic education for primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia, National Journal 10/2019 of 29 January 2019, civil education is conducted inter-species in all primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia and the other 6 inter-species topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15308	A review of the promoter, the distinguished MPs, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15309	So here's to a colleague where I regret to see that Croatia understands science and how, indeed, in times where we live in different kinds of strange facts or so on. fake news is not able to increase any kuna funds from year to year. Also here, no one is talking about inter-matter, we cannot be satisfied with programmes that are not systematic in times where civic education would mean the preparation of our students for what is here we are witnessing and here understanding and democracy, learning about what it means to be a responsible citizen and what it means to see today is a single amendment of colleagues finding about violence against young people and among young people, so all that one systematic civil education would be able to make responsible citizens for tomorrow's Croatia, and when you look at where we wanted to take off so that it is possible for something that could be said to belong to some other times, is we a little older remember SuBNOR visits to schools, 6 million kunas for education on values of the Homeland War that are not carried out scientifically are the evaluations of such programs. Our proposal for civic education would also discuss the values of the Homeland War but in a way that is scientific and educational. And we think it's tragic that this government hasn't dared to stand up for years, and we also know why and why here are once again disputed over the value of why a whole civil education doesn't import, doesn't introduce itself into our schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15310	The 120th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15311	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the award of annual prizes and rewards for life's work, means the Ivan Filipović Prize, the Faust Vrančić Award, which is also in line with the amount of compensation for the state fee Franjo Bučar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15312	Answer, review, please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15313	Thank you. Perhaps, in your opinion, they are sufficient in our opinion, we should certainly increase them. The awards in the field of technical culture are directed at individuals and associations because of their exceptional contribution to the expansion and promotion of technical culture. One of the long-term development objectives is also related to the promotion of STEM, and it is also important to show through the award system that the efforts of voluntary organisations and individuals in this field are appreciated and encouraged in order to send a message to students and employees in this sector that technical culture is valorised and from the aspect of education, science and research and is recognised as one of the important mechanisms of economic development. So we really think that this item should be increased, we stay with the amendments and we ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15314	The 121st Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15315	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds are sufficient for all planned activities in 2021. In addition, a project to resociate drug addicts is funded within this activity and programmes to prevent addiction in primary and secondary schools are co-financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15316	Answer, please consider, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15317	Thank you. If the planned funds were sufficient for the planned activities, then I felt that more and more activities and resources should be planned. According to a report by the Ombudsman for children for 2019, investments in the prevention of violence and addiction are insufficient, and therefore schools have different approaches to prevention and interventions in relation to peer violence and behaviour is not always legally or professionally uniform. Different prevention programs are implemented, but some of them are not evaluated, so their effects or outcomes for children are unknown. There are insufficient preventive activities to develop socio-emotional competences and empathy, especially for skills development, conflict resolution. The Ombudsman pointed out that the Office receives applications when applicants see themselves as national motivated conflicts, but that schools in their prevention strategies do not intend to implement a civil education programme aimed at learning about human rights, tolerance and acceptance of diversity. It is noted that such incidents are mostly directed towards Roma, Serbian and other national students. The lack of vocational capacity of schools for timely response to violence but also to the implementation of preventive measures is highlighted. From all of this, given that protecting the rights of children and young people and providing for education and education that will teach children the basic values and skills of non-violence, peace and respect for every human being is a national priority, so we believe that this should be insisted, we remain with the amendment and we ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15318	The 122nd amendment, the Green-left bloc advocates' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15319	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons why it is in accordance with the law on technical culture, as well as the Regulation on criteria for determining users and how to distribute portions of the revenues from gambling, funds to the Croatian community of technical culture and national alliances, are paid at the level of other revenues from gambling. In accordance with that Regulation, it is also defined and distributed in the national budget proposal for 2021. It turns out that the funds are slightly less planned, but this is a group of estimates, to what extent they will be achieved, how much the lottery revenues will be realised. Of course, the funds will be used at the level of how much they are, as far as they are made and achieved, expected to be no less than this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15320	A review, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15321	Thank you. Regardless of the expected and achieved lottery revenues, we really consider it to be a goal of promoting STEM among children and young people, that these allocations should be increased for the Croatian community of technical culture in order to ensure a sufficient number of programmes and capacities to support children and young people. I note that this amendment required a truly modest increase of approximately 2% of the funds given. We'll stay on the amendment and ask that it be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15322	123rd Amendment, Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15323	The amendment is not accepted for reasons why, also in accordance with the Regulation on criteria for determining users and how to distribute part of the gambling income, the funds are paid at the level of the revenues generated from gambling. In accordance with the Regulation which defines the distribution and is established and relations not by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15324	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15325	Out-of-institutional education and education of children and young people includes civil society organisations in the implementation of programmes in the field of promoting social inclusion and preserving national and local identity, improving the quality of life of children and young people, promoting the development of competences in the field of natural and mathematical areas and related areas, ensuring quality of free time for children and young people, and promoting socially beneficial activities, volunteering and active citizenship. Competences and skills that children acquire through these programmes are of exceptional importance for building children and young people into active and informed citizens and building civil competences. For this reason, an increase in funds in this position is proposed, and we remain in this amendment and ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15326	The 124th Amendment, the Green-left bloc advocates' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15327	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds for PCA-577131 activities, the promotion of the education of national minorities are intended for the touch and translation of textbooks and other educational materials for teaching purposes in the language and letter of national minorities and are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15328	Proposer's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15329	We believe that this still needs to be improved significantly by national minorities and in particular by improving the education of children of members of national minorities. This is particularly important in relation to those minorities who are in a difficult position, such as the Roma national minority, in terms of ensuring institutional and non-institutional programmes that will help better social inclusion, and thus school success, promotion of education. And... promotion and insurance of preschool programmes, we note that especially among the Roma minorities there are still many children who do not have access to educational content, especially those digital ones, because many households do not have the internet, especially this is important in this time of the pandemic, or the crisis conditioned by Covid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're staying with this amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15330	The 125th Amendment, Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15331	The amendment is not accepted. This position is largely financed by the departures of our gifted children to international competitions, Olympics, state championships, world championships, purchases, so that these funds proposed for the implementation of activities in 2021 are sufficient, especially given the fact that the limited opportunities for travel to international competitions already took place during this year, and is expected to take place early next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15332	The review, the promoter, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15333	Thank you very much. We don't think they're enough, and we think that this is one more time, and this is especially what we're sending a very important and loud message. Just as we advocate the educational rights of all who are helped, and special protection is needed, so we also advocate increasing the attention and education rights of especially gifted children. Many national programmes, as well as a proposal for a new National Development Strategy, highlight the importance of developing a programme of work with gifted students and students. And here in the first place, we think that it is necessary to strengthen the capacity of teachers and schools, to organise and implement such programmes. The proposed amount is therefore, we believe, completely insufficient, according to the number of primary and secondary schools and higher education institutions, the amount per educational institution is intended for the growth of gifted pupils, amounting to only 1,100 kuna. It is true that the above paragraph is planned to spend mainly on participation in international competitions, but in no way can it replace every form of work with gifted students. So we stay on this amendment, and I'm also asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15334	The 126th Amendment of the Club of Representatives to the left, the red-left block.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15335	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the Regulation on criteria for the determination of users and the way in which the share of gambling revenues is distributed, funds are paid at the level of revenue achieved as we have just elaborated. It is also stressed that teaching assistants for children with developmental difficulties are provided from other sources. Thus the European Social Fund agreed a project of approximately cca. 362 million kuna. In addition, funds from their own budgets of local and regional self-government units are provided, as well as from the resources of the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy. It is important to point out that the number of assistants is continuing in the last 5 years. Almost even more than tripled.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15336	Answer, here's the esteemed Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15337	Thank you. If, therefore, it may not have been clear from the answer, this was about our proposal to raise resources for assistants in teaching for children with developmental difficulties. I would like to point out once again that here we have a facing source of funding called "happiness Games" and a purpose called "helpers in continuing for children with developmental difficulties". But at the beginning, that's all we find absolutely unacceptable. Of course, it is necessary to improve help in teaching for children with developmental difficulties through improving the position of assistants in a way that solves employment problems and working conditions, establishing standards of their qualifications, and thus education for their profession. We believe that it is necessary to ensure for the assistants in the continued working contracts indefinitely, to ensure the right to their paid week and annual vacation, and to define the pay coefficients. In the end, not least, for the next 2021s. In this item we plan almost 3 million kunas less than we have this year, which is approximately a reduction of 13% points. We therefore remain, therefore, with this amendment and we pray that it be voted on as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15338	The 127th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15339	The amendment is not accepted. Planned funds on the planned A579004 promotion outside the teaching activities are sufficient to implement outside the teaching activities in primary schools. Activities related to extracurricular and extracurricular training are planned to be financed through the A577130 activity at the position of incentives to organisations for extra-institutional education and education of children and young people in the implementation of civil society organisations in cooperation with primary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15340	A review, Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15341	It is necessary, of course, to improve beyond teaching activities in primary schools, and to equalise access to students from all parts of the Republic of Croatia to quality activities that are an important part of education and education because they promote creativity, a positive attitude towards work, free expression, independence, cooperation, teamwork. Inequality in accessing outside teaching activities is also an important form of inequality in the approach of education. We're staying with this amendment, please let's vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15342	The 128th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15343	The amendment is not accepted. At this position, A580003 promotions outside secondary schools and higher education are provided sufficient means to implement outside secondary school teaching activities and higher education. Activities related to extracurricular and extracurricular activities are also planned to be financed through the activities that we have just described, from which the work of associations is financed, also from lottery funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15344	Here's a review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15345	Thank you. Well, similar or almost the same as before. We believe that it is necessary to improve beyond teaching activities and at the level of secondary education, higher education, and that it is particularly important to equalise the access of students and students from all parts of the Republic of Croatia to quality beyond the teaching activities that we consider to be an immeasurably important part of education and education. So we're staying on this one, and we're asking for a vote on that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15346	This Regulation shall enter into force
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15347	The amendment is not accepted. The estimated funds in 2021. According to the inflow of money from gambling, they enable the meeting of the needs of blind and weak-sighted students and students through the project, and associations that ensure the adaptation and production of textbooks and literature on Braille's letter in printed edition, in digital form, sound recording and increased press to facilitate teaching monitoring in educational institutions and higher universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15348	Please refer to the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15349	Thank you very much. Once again, I must mention that I find it difficult to evenly mention the source of the funds for this position and its purposes. And whatever the regulations, it sounds inappropriate to me to mention difficulties in the education of blind and undersighted persons with the prospect of winning games of happiness. And it is necessary to facilitate education for the blind and undersighted, students and students, by providing primarily adequate teaching literature. It is important, in particular, to provide resources and technology to adapt all educational materials to the blind and weak, given that literature is changing faster and faster and depending on the rapid and frequent change of curricula. So we're staying on this one, too. Please, let's vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15350	130th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15351	The amendment is not accepted. The activities related to education of persons without Croatian citizenship have until recently been financed exclusively by the state budget as the ministry has applied and provided funds from the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund in the total annual, three-year amount of EUR 560,000, the planned funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15352	A review of the applicant, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15353	Thank you very much. I will say this, of course, it is necessary to facilitate the integration of people without citizenship because the basis of each integration process is to master language and ensure access to education. So we're staying with this amendment and we're asking for a vote on it. But in the time that I have left to show about this amendment, and before the last one that our Green-Left Block has invested, before the last amendment to education and education, science, the Ministry of Science and Education, allow me a brief summary of this little dialogue that has passed through 14 amendments. We have therefore proposed to increase the project financing of scientific activities by increasing financial support to scientific associations and programmes for popularisation and science. Introducing civic education as a separate subject, increasing the resources for state rewards for outstanding results in education and technical culture, increasing funds for prevention of violence and addiction, increasing funds for promoting the Croatian community of technical culture, increasing incentives for organisations for extra-institutional education of children and young people, increasing incentives for education of national minorities, for programmes for working with gifted students, further increasing the resources for assistants in the teaching for difficulties in development, increasing funds for extracurricular activities first in primary schools, then both in secondary schools and in colleges, increasing the resources for making textbooks for blind and undersighted students and students, and finally this last thing we discussed for the education of persons without Croatian citizenship. All in a row, with a list You refused them. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15354	The 131st Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15355	The amendment is not accepted. The diet of students of weaker socio-economic status is financed through the Ministry of Labour, Pensions, Family and Social Policy through the EU FEAD Fund, from which a warm meal is financed for all children of the county who have a lower index of 125% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, and all through the county. Countys with a larger development index report diet projects for children and socially endangered families to a children's foundation competition, thus covering all children of the weaker socio-economic status.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15356	Look, here's your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15357	Thank you very much. We have therefore proposed this measure at the national level to prevent the possibility of providing free meals at school from being dependent on the possibility of this or that unit of local or regional self-government. In order to improve the quality of nutrition and education of children and young people on healthy nutrition, prevention of obesity and prevention of malnutrition and psychophysical development of students, we have proposed that free school diet be introduced for all students by ensuring a warm meal. We are convinced that this is a step that is necessary and possible to do. Furthermore, we can base this project exclusively on local and seasonal supplies that will be supplied through green public procurement using short supply chains and favouring local farming. In this way, investment in school nutrition will also have a significant impact on the opening of the market for local products, the possibility of planning small producers and increasing public awareness of the advantages of local farming. We are also staying on this amendment and we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15358	132. Amendment of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15359	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed funds for preschool activities are sufficient for planned activities in 2021. The regional housing programme is an international programme based on a framework agreement signed by the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank on 3 June. In December 2013, which defined the legal framework for the use of funding from the regional housing programme fund and with a deadline for implementation of the programme until 2022. Financial resources are planned in the national budget proposal for 2021 under contractual sub-projects, with the aim of a permanent settlement of the housing needs of the most vulnerable categories of refugees and internally displaced persons as well as the completion of the programme within the time limit, content and scope, and cannot be reduced from the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15360	A review of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15361	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State you are standing here in front of us you see that only this central part and the left of you are representatives, you have written materials, you read them neatly, and I hope that at least you are uncomfortable because now these amendments that I, on behalf of the Centre Club and GLAS, will further explain are actually talking about that we want to encourage excellence in this country, that we want to encourage education, that we want to invest in education. There's this one saying dogs bark, caravans pass. That's exactly how we feel, but there's less and less caravans in Croatia, and I'm afraid there'll be less and less road and road to go on. If we really want to take a step towards 2030 or 2050, then we should start investing already in this budget that is for 2021 for children, for young people, and I see that the explanation you've had so far is actually trying to leave the status quo and be exactly the average we are and at the bottom of all the European scales when EU countries are judged. It's something that may give a niche of Commodity, but certainly it's not something that gives a step into the future. So I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15362	133th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the IP, Smart and Glass.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15363	The amendment is not accepted. The funding for adult education has been increased by 2 million and 800,000 kuna in the state budget by 2021 compared to 2020. The number of participants of that programme shall be continuously monitored and, given that there are no higher oscillations in the previous five years, the resources provided are sufficient to ensure the implementation of the programme. We are aware of the fact that lifelong education of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is at least included at EU level, but we plan to encourage this through additional activities that we are programming within the next multiannual financial framework, and besides these existing funds, activities are also financed from the position of the Ministry of Labour through the HZZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15364	A review of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15365	Thank you very much. Of course I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Therefore, Croatia is available and will be available at some point in time for the so-called funds. Green plan. Croatia invests at least all EU countries in lifelong education and adult retraining, so requalification for other professions, for another job, for something at its disposal. When you look at the digital literacy that Croatia has with regard to other EU workers, we are at the very bottom. In fact, we want to enable this amendment at this point in the next year of 2021 to be a year that will be a year of challenges, but a year and a retraining of adult education, that we have a workforce that is ready for some new jobs, which is ready for some new steps. Unfortunately, not accepting this amendment throughout the series actually shows that we are leaving the status quo. A country like Croatia facing in 2021 as well as in front of the whole world is one challenging year, but if we leave nothing to change if we leave the status quo then I am sure that when we look at some other indicators at EU level we will really be there at the bottom. I'm sitting here because I don't want to be at the bottom. These amendments we've given are amendments, so they're not too difficult financially, but showing desire, will and energy to change something. In your ministry, there is no desire, no will, no energy for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15366	13th Amendment to the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15367	134th, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15368	35th, excuse me, 34th.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15369	34th, yes, good. The amendment is not accepted because the funds planned are sufficient for the implementation of activities in 2021. The Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia through this activity also provides assistance in the field of education, culture, science and health in BiH and helps strengthen civil society, empowering young people, restoring and building up. BiH's incentives through this activity are aimed at developing an entire society with an additional emphasis on the Croatian people. as the main driver of the systematic pro-European reform processes and guarantees the survival of multi-ethnic BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15370	A review of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15371	Thank you very much. I will also beg the vote on this amendment. So when these amendments are explained and I'm talking about them, it turns out that these changes are hundreds of millions of kunas. We are talking about a million and a half, two million, two and a half million kunas to invest in education in the young and in the future of this country, but there is obviously no readiness in this government or in your ministry for the above. So as I said, please vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15372	135th Amendment of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15373	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds for activities encouraging extracurricular activities in primary schools are sufficient for planned activities in 2021. The Ministry of Science and Education continuously co-finances extracurricular activities in primary schools, and the same activities are financed from several sources, such as the position of incentives for organisations for extra-institutional education and education of young children, incentives for the Croatian community of technical culture, incentives for work programmes for gifted students and students.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15374	A review of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15375	Thank you very much. So it's another amendment from the set of amendments that we actually think that the activities that are part of the educational process for children are extremely important. Do we want to be average? Do we want to be somewhere at the bottom all the time or do we want to be different? Do we want to make a step, do we want to move from there 25, 26, 27 places out of 27 EU countries? It seems to me that we should want to make a move, that we should want to make a step. It'll be too late, when we remember there in 2025 or 2026 that we should have done something, it'll be too late. What I expected from the entire budget for 2021, I expected that shift, I expected that step, I expected that in these difficult times we position ourselves elsewhere. But you state secretaries who, by heart, by energy, should stand up for this whole thing together, you explain to us all the time that it's enough and that we should stay exactly where we are. Now, we don't think we should stay where we are, that we should move forward, and in that context is this amendment and these next ones that will follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15376	136th Amendment of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15377	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds are sufficient to organise summer schools and other activities during the next financial year. The draft budget has already increased funds compared to previous periods, and the proposed amount is the basis of the real needs of the applicant on a public call from that activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15378	A review of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15379	Thank you very much. I will beg to vote on this amendment as well. This is about national minorities, i.e. implementing national minority programmes. You know, on the one hand, our mouths are full of some kind of story, and on the other hand you come up with a number. When you read the number, the numbers always tell the truth. I am, as I am a representative in the Parliament, so I am also a representative in the City of Zagreb City Assembly and I read parallelly one and the other budget, and then it is very interesting, let's just say, this is how it works, in the budget of the City of Zagreb, for pre-school education of children of Roma nationality is intended by letter and number 6 thousand kuna. So six and three zeroes, six thousand kuna. So, on the one hand, we will be full of investment mouths and everything else, and on the other hand we come to the budget and to the reality and, of course, to ask and to vote on this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15380	The 137th Amendment, the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15381	The amendment is not accepted. As we have already explained, it is about the position from which the most gifted children's departures to international competitions, the Olympics, the world championships are financed. In view of this situation, already in 2020, these funds had to be reduced due to the inability to travel to different destinations where these activities usually happen. If there is any change, we will take care over the year to secure sufficient resources, with these funds increased multiplely over the last few years. The amendment is not accepted. As we have already explained, it is about the position from which the most gifted children's departures to international competitions, the Olympics, the world championships are financed. In view of this situation, already in 2020, these funds had to be reduced due to the inability to travel to different destinations where these activities usually happen. If there is any change, we will take care over the year to secure sufficient resources, with these funds increased multiplely over the last few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15383	A review, Anka Dark-Taritash, a distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15384	Thank you very much. I'm going to beg the vote on this amendment as well. So, we have a common case that we really have a chance to see in those central diaries, so no matter what the television house is, that young people, gifted students, gifted students come back from certain competitions, come back from certain Olympics in knowledge, that there they win in the context of hundreds of countries of gold, silver, bronze medals, and then when you put it in the context of rewards they get, it's a little uncomfortable for you, that really all that effort, their engagement really isn't rewarded as it should be. It's uncomfortable for us, but I hope it's uncomfortable for you in the ministry, too. You're the Ministry of Science and Education. So what kind of ministry is it if it's not what it's supposed to be to try as much resources as possible for education, to make as much resources as possible for the development of science. You see that every year you enroll, that is, fewer and fewer students are enrolled. So excellence needs to be rewarded, it needs to be invested, it really needs to be made possible. I once said in this assembly that Mr. Merkel turned to a delegation from Croatia at one meeting and said what you will do, it was at the time of Croatia's entry into the EU, with your young people, because everything that is worth it, so we will pick you up and we will give them for employment as much as you can't give. So, what we should be doing is keeping our young ones here, but if we start to discourage them, then we'll discourage them their whole lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15385	The 138th Amendment, IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15386	The amendment is also not accepted. So again it's about lottery assets that depend on how many will be realized and how the budget will be filled. It can always be spent to the height of what is coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15387	A review, the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15388	Thank you very much. So you see that the amendments are somehow structured in a way that we try to invest more in excellence and speciality. And the answers are routine. It means always as well as the funds can be redeployed, but this shows that even the ministry doesn't believe that it will have to invest and encourage somehow, because if the ministry doesn't believe and if it doesn't believe in some future, how will the other one believe? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15389	139th Amendment, I.P., Smart and Voice Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15390	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed funds are sufficient for planned activities in 2021. Under this activity, a project to resociate drug addicts is funded and programmes are co-financed to prevent dependence in primary and secondary schools for which funds are provided from other sources of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health and the Agency for Education and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15391	A review, the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15392	Thank you very much. I'm going to beg the vote on this amendment as well. So, when we had a budget for 2020, then in one, something different composition than now, we were standing here just the same as we discussed our amendments, not to say, defending them, and you were answering us why individual or someone else, why individual amendments couldn't be accepted. At that time, no one expected that in 2020 there would be a year in which the entire family would be at home because of lockdown, where children could not be educated, regardless of whether it was elementary school, high school, and eventually college, and where they would actually be educated in a completely different way. The result of such a condition is a consequence that leaves a sure mark on the mental health of the nation, young, middle, older. He also leaves for people who are used to getting dressed and going to work every morning. It also leaves children of the earliest age because the child that it is,... The school, since the 1st-4th grade, so it gets up in the morning, so it's got to brush, so it's got to fit the bag, so it's got to go to school or sit at home in front of the TV, the computer, in the pajamas from the morning until someone comes and chases him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we live in such a time and this amendment has actually tried to increase funds from which I could actually finance the subject of the mental health of young people, the mental health of the nation. We're gonna have a lot of problems, but when we think of that, it's gonna be too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15393	140th Amendment of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15394	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds are enough for, for, for the award of annual prizes and for the prize of life's work. The "Ivan Filipović" award and the "Faust Vrančić" award, whose fee is in line with the state prize, are the "Franjo Bučar" award.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15395	A review, the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15396	So, no wonder. I think it is, that some other clubs have given the same or similar amendment where you are, where there was the same or similar explanation. With this amendment, we actually want to give an injection somehow so that you all wake up a little bit together and become aware that you should invest in young people, in education, not leave the status quo. So I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15397	Amendment 141.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15398	The amendment is not accepted. The estimated funds in 2021. They allow continued investment in the implementation of reform activities, and there is no need to increase them. In addition, funds have been provided for the implementation of curricular reform under the ISF project to support the implementation of the curriculative reform, so-called. CKR2, and there is no need to increase this activity in the state budget. In addition, I would point out if the entire budget of the Ministry of Science and Education for 2021 were to be looked at. from all sources, including all activities from EU projects that are growing by approximately two billion kunas, so I think there will be enough resources for all these activities that the ministry is carrying out to carry out in a quality way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15399	A review of the distinguished representative Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15400	Thank you very much. We'll be somewhere at the end of next year or in the middle, depending on how it is, there'll be some budget rebalancing, there'll be some executions that we'll be able to see and that'll be the moment where we can see if you were right or we were right about the amendments. I didn't mean it, but some of these things are always good for me, so I especially note it because it's convenient to look at this continuity and some context. You're going with the budget, we're giving amendments that you, in most cases, don't accept 99.1%, and then we have a rebalancing and rebalancing, and then it's convenient to see who was there, who was right, so it's going to be a time to see who was actually with this amendment and this story was right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15401	142. Amendment of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15402	Well, here, in addition to everything I've been saying about lottery assets, I'd just point out further. If theoretically and accepted and increased this amount can only be executed up to the level of those funds defined by the government's decision on the allocation of lottery funds, as provided for by the Law on the Use of Luttrian Assets. So, these positions depend exclusively on how much the Croatian lottery will earn and according to how much it is made to the maximum of this amount and can be spent on all those activities financed from the lottery funds. Accordingly, we hold that this amendment does not have to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15403	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15404	Thank you very much. So, you kind of kind of responded to it before one 20, 15, 20 minutes was a very similar amendment. And I may somehow repeat what I said on the previous amendment. We'll see, see who was right, see if it could or couldn't. We'll see if you've decided to take a conservative approach to this budget as it seems to me or if you wanted to and wanted to and had an idea to make a little change after all. I'm afraid of this desire and the idea that we're very far away, but there's going to be an opportunity, so let's see who was right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15405	Amendment 144.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15406	143, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15407	143.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15408	And '3, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15409	Okay. The amendment is also not accepted. So, for reasons, it's lottery assets, which I've already explained all by now how these lottery assets can be used and what their position in the budget means. So it's neither a source of 11 pure budget, nor a source of 12 restriction, nor an 8's, but it means a source that's dependent on how the lottery funds will be charged. What's important here in this position, it's funded by teaching assistants, means for children with difficulties. At one point, I already mentioned that the number of assistants to be provided in the last 5 years. has increased almost, almost 4 times, for which the most part has been provided from the European Social Fund, projects contracted by the Ministry of Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15410	A review, the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15411	Thank you very much. When we listen to you, it's almost like we're looking for an increase, and it's worth 10 million kuna. It wasn't about 10 million kunas, it was about exactly an increase of some 3 million kunas, so something that seems to me that could absolutely make such a step and do something. It will be interesting to see the explanation of each other's ministry where the same theme of lottery funding is related to sport, so I'll be very interested in what kind of reasoning will be there, whether you've synchronised or not, do you know why the lottery funds, you and I know well that the lottery funds, are meant for the development of sport. And you and I both know that this is a year where there were no Olympic games, and a country that decides not to invest in culture and sports but only stays on basics doesn't move forward. Therefore, we will also ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15412	144th Amendment of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15413	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed amount is sufficient to provide financial support in the regular activities of scientific and scientific associations and the setting up of a programme of popularisation of science carried out by institutions in the system of science and higher education and scientific and scientific associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15414	A review of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15415	Thank you very much. So all these amendments that we've given, and it's about your ministry, the Ministry of Science and Education, are based on the fact that we encourage education, encourage excellence, encourage development of science, encourage investment in the future. These amendments are amendments to the future. Today we need to know clearly what these activities are, what activities they are, what kind of country we want to be in 2030 or 2050, we need to know in the budget for 2021. And that's why the basic remarks on the budget and these amendments are in a certain way an incentive for something different, but unfortunately we didn't have a suitable counterpart. As there's no one here but Mr. Sanader from the ruling majority who's even decent enough to even sit there so that they can change you know who changes hockey so that they can be and record at all or pass through their ears what we said, that means that the ruling doesn't care at all about the amendments that we're going to give. We can say whatever we want, give the amendments any way we want, and you will do exactly as you will not accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15416	145th Amendment of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15417	The amendment is not accepted. The answer is the same as the previous amendment and is generally repeated.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15418	Look, here's an esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15419	Thank you very much. This was an amendment that was very similar only to the items from which we had downloaded them differently, so we were wondering if there were any ideas or wills to accept it. Unfortunately, there isn't. Please vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15420	One hundred and forty-sixth Amendment of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15421	The amendment is not accepted. According to the current assessment, the amount to finance part of the activities of the Seismological Service of the Republic of Croatia, which is financed from this position, is sufficient to point out that the Ministry of Science and Education in the rebalancing of the state budget for 2020 and in the proposal of the state budget for 2021 provided for an increase in funding of €500,000 compared to earlier periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15422	A review of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15423	Thank you very much. I will beg the vote on this amendment. Therefore, the set of amendments that have so far been exclusively related to education in investing in the originality in particular and other. This is one amendment that's a little different, and it's different for what reason? So, eight months ago, we had an earthquake in the City of Zagreb, there are certain places that are defined where seismological changes are monitored, these places should be significantly more according to the regulations. Since it was an insistence that the City of Zagreb should ensure this when you enter the law then you can see that it is not the units of local self-government or the City of Zagreb but... at the state level provided by the state. Who's that providing the Seismological Institute? If there is no money in the budget, it can't even secure it, if it can't ensure it can't be adequately monitored. Should we be hit on the head, should we have an earthquake like we had to realize that we needed to monitor changes and conditions in space? Obviously, therefore, I am asking for a vote on this amendment, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15424	147th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15425	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that it is proposed contrary to the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, which do not provide for the possibility of providing funds for these purposes in the state budget, but rather in the budgets of the founders and holders of decentralised financing, or county and cities. We note that the Law on Education and Education also provides for the possibility of funding from the state budget only in cases where the safety of pupils and employees is at stake, and in this case they can address the Ministry of Science and Education which in this case we have only three such projects for which the funds are secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15426	The applicant's review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15427	Thank you for your response. This amendment proposes to the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education a position under which the Marchan primary school is provided with funds for construction facilities of €19.5 million in order to ensure minimum technical conditions. So it's about the need that could arise from your ministry when it's known that investing in children and in young people is investing in our future saddens the fact that the government has no hearing about it, for that reason I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15428	148th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15429	Here's the same answer to this question. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15430	The applicant's review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15431	Thank you for your response. So it's about the OS Scoula element of Mate Balota Buje from Buje, we're talking about the means of recovery, reconstruction, upgrade and upgrade of the existing school building. We believe that this is necessary, the government does not want to be a partner to the Istrian County in the insurance of basic funds, which is the rehabilitation and reconstruction of primary education. Mrs. Anka, you were saying, dogs bark at caravans coming through, this seems more like Sisif's job to me, so I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15432	149th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15433	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15434	Proposer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15435	Dear Secretary of State. The following amendments are all related to education and education by the IDS club and really I am here now after this morning's debate after the government has made a statement on amendments that are accepted we see that the rulings are not present and that just once again for the adoption of this budget will be used by the ruling machinery and most of which there are in the Parliament and we here who are parliamentary representatives from the opposition that you know in vain the efforts of your players. However, we from IDS as hard as the Istrians are persistent, as the cargo would say to us, and we will not give up exactly how the budget in this assembly changes and that parliamentaryism finally comes to life. This is about the "Svetvinčenat" OS. Since 2000, when this country has decentralised itself and left schools, police, fire department, everything in disintegrated, through decentralised funds that you provide in the budget, it is simply impossible to maintain those schools, let alone create new conditions for our children. And that is why we suggest that you also find funds in the budget for this amendment and to ensure the conditions for children in Svetvinčenta amounting to the total planned investment of 22 million kuna and 500 thousand kuna, and this is an upgrade, an upgrade of the reconstruction of this school. I demand a vote for this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15436	Thank you. The 150th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15437	The government does not accept this amendment with the same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15439	We listen to the representatives of the ministry of one, the other, the third and repeat "we do not accept". Is it a little embarrassing for you to have this kind of thing just as it concerns young people, education and science every time you answer no? I demand a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15440	151th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15441	And this 151st amendment is according to the same model and also the government does not accept it for the same reason except that what you said is actually the fact that, in the government's term of office from 2012 to 2015, these decentralised assets in part of capital investment were the most affected and that until today, in these circumstances, what kind of, as we have now, fiscal ones have not returned to those levels. In accordance with this, as no way has been found at that time to finance education infrastructure, especially in the pretercial sector from funds, we are now doing one programming especially in part of the Recovery Fund or the National Recovery Plan from which it will be certain that much of these investments will be financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15442	Here's a thank you. This amendment sought funding for the Fažana OS, also for the reconstruction of existing buildings, upgrades and upgrades. So I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15443	152. Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15444	The government rejects the amendment with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15445	Here's your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15446	Thank you for your response. But here's the Istrian County showing how much it takes to take care of the building's restoration and the full infrastructure of primary education. Istria's County is the only one of the few counties that has an increase in population, where they move in means young people from the rest of Croatia and certainly needs to improve education infrastructure is needed. It is not a coastal municipality, but it is in central Istria because of the increase in the number of students, but also the need, it is envisaged that this project also realised a two-part sports hall as an upgrade and upgrade of the existing school. And it saddens us that here you have no understanding that this is to be included in the state budget for 2021, when such documents are being prepared at the Istrian level of the county, which practically have a building permit and project documentation only needs to be realised. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15447	153rd Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15448	The government does not accept the amendment with the same explanation with, once again, just to point out what the law provides. The law stipulates that only the central state can be included, the Ministry of Science, in the financing of those facilities in which the safety of pupils and school employees is compromised. What is above the law is above the law is only international contracts and European funds. When, in the previous years, when we had funding for capital investments in education in recent decades, the beginning of our democracy was first the facilities which were recovered from international contracts, loans, the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Central Council, the Bank of Europe, the population's war migration, afterwards the rehabilitation of population migration towards cities and within urban migration. Now after this comes a time when we need to comply with European standards, with day-to-day teaching standards, with one shift working standards, and these are projects where the government is seriously working on and preparing them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15449	Thank you for your response. This amendment seeks funds for the "Vladimir Nazor" OS Vrsar for reconstruction, upgrade and upgrade of the existing school building. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15450	154th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15451	Here's the government rejects the amendment with the same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15452	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15453	Thank you. Here is an example of the school in Pazin, one of the most famous high school, but there is also the professional school "Jurai Dobrila". A few years ago, the Istrian County, along with the town of Pazin, borrowed a loan and entered into an investment in the construction of a sports hall. The investment was about 40 million kuna, and the kuna didn't come from the state. And we have examples of where these same halls are financed, in some other parts, where there will be co-financing from the budget regardless... There is, there is, specifically here I will say sports hall in Metkovic. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] "Juraj Dobrila" and high school means in Pazin it is certainly necessary to upgrade and upgrade. Ten million kuna funding has been provided, and let's not forget that the Istrian County is proposing projects like this to always propose that they are willing to co-finance. In the answer you gave me before I could decentralisation the i.e. The new funding model must also say that this budget is not harmonised and it is not seen how we can obtain funds from the EU Funds because we are boasting that we will reconstruct complete public buildings through energy recovery, and this certainly includes schools because they are public buildings. The founders are cities or counties, but with such a centralized system and budget keeping and when we watch the budget grow state and as it grows in cities and municipalities, then we will see that this ratio is growing and greater. So we have no other way than to look for funding from the state, so projects like this can be financed. And that's why for this school, High School and Juraj Dobrila School in Pazin, I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15454	155th Amendment, IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15455	The government doesn't accept this amendment for the same reason, especially since here, from the very name of the amendment, it doesn't seem to be a school institution at all, the Pula Society Centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15456	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15457	It is done to ensure actually adequate accommodation in Pula, Ivan Matetić Ronjgov Music School and School of Applied Arts and Design, however, this is what we have spoken from the IDS Club several times. So there is neither the fiscal one nor the functional decentralisation and then the political Zagreb simply has to decide from some office what is going on and that is the biggest problem that this.../incomprehensible/... I mean one of the biggest problems that this country has and something that is delaying to actually make our people live better and that our children in this case have as adequate accommodation as possible and more adequate education, so we are looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15458	156th Amendment, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15459	The amendment is not accepted. We've already had this same amendment several times, so this activity is financing the departure of gifted children to international competitions, these are the most common Olympics, world championships, purchases. What happened already in 2020 in rebalancing we had to reduce these funds because there was no activity, there was no departure, there were not so many children leaving, many competitions which, I remember, the last trip to Russia were cancelled, we have a problem with this Covid situation and for this reason we hold that these planned funds are sufficient for planned activities in the next 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15460	A review, Honorable Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, this item is not called the trips of gifted students to international competitions but is called working with gifted students. Then you need to correct the name of the item, that's the first thing. The second thing, if this item is not spent exclusively on travel, as you said, then 0 kuna is invested in the work with the gifted students of the state budget, which is even worse than what you just said. I'm that the norm of teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools enters additional and additional classes, but it's just not enough. It's not enough for a lot of reasons that my colleagues and colleagues have argued before that, but I have to point out once more, if we're not investing in gifts, if we're not dealing with a system of gifts, then I don't know who we're dealing with. At the end of the day let's assume that this amount is intended to work with gifted students, if we share it with the number of schools, you'll get to some amount of approximately, and I'll be very generous, 1,000 kuna per school. Is that enough to work with gifted students all year round, I don't think that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15462	157th Amendment, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15463	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the proposed funds are sufficient for planned activities in 2021, this activity finance projects to resociate drug addicts and co-finance programmes for prevention in primary and secondary schools, for which resources are provided from other sources at the positions of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15464	A review, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15465	Thank you very much. I know similar programs are funded from different positions. Let's say from a position within the budget for the Central State Sport Office. However, speaking in the medical dictionary, the kuna invested in the prevention of 5 kunas saved in recovery. So, since this is about prevention of violence and addiction, and I underline both, it is extremely important in this particular population that is still in the education system to act preventively and thus protect them. Not only of physical scars that will be definitely through violence and addiction, but also of those psychological ones to which they will be exposed, or who will remain if they are exposed to violence and addiction. So I'm holding that 2 million kunas is more than a symbolic amount, so if we're going to share that with the number of schools again, we're going to get a very defeated amount per school. I've proposed to double it, and I'm staying here and I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15466	158th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15467	The amendment is not accepted. And we've already had it several times, and we've explained how the lottery assets that can be realised up to the amount planned. In theory, to achieve twice as much as planned, you can spend that amount, and if you get smaller, then you will achieve less, regardless of what it says here. These same funds are also defined and funded by the Technical Culture Act. In addition, the Regulation laying down criteria for the identification of users and the method of distribution of revenue from gambling, which brings about each year the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15468	A review, the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15469	So there's been talk of it before. The Croatian Community of Technical Culture is a roof organisation that unites all the alliances of technical culture in the Republic of Croatia and the amount that separates them from their work, i.e. for their incentives, is also, at a symbolic level, if we take into account that STEM is an area, hence technical sciences, one of the priorities, or should at least be, declared to be the priorities of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. our education system. So 17 million kuna is a bit, I tried to be realistic there, I didn't go with unrealistic expectations, I suggested it be 20 million kunas at the level last year and I think it's also symbolic, but it's still more. That's why I'm staying on the amendment and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15470	159th Amendment, MP of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15471	So from this position, the assistants in the class are funded. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the lottery funds are back on track and we explained how this lottery fund model is financed. And that this is not about insignificant funds is the fact that this project is financed from a five-year contracted ISF project of 362 million 397 thousand 460 kuna. These activities are also financed from the budget of units of local and regional self-government and funds of the Ministry of Labour, pension system, family and social policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15472	A review of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15473	I will try not to repeat the arguments that have already been made, but the fact is that the assistants in the follow-up, or those people who did this job, were exposed to uncertainty, that they did not know whether their contracts would be extended and now that they see funds being reduced in that position, of course some questionnaires exist. I was guided by the logic that the funds provided for in the budget for this programme, and this programme proved to be extremely good and really did a lot so that children with developmental difficulties could normally follow the teaching I managed to stay at the level of last year, so somewhere in the context of around 24 million kuna. I also don't think it's unrealistic to ask, and that's why I'm staying on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15474	160th Amendment of MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15475	The amendment is not accepted because sufficient resources have been provided to carry out extracurricular activities in primary schools. Activities related to the implementation of extracurricular and extracurricular courses are planned to be financed from other activities, such as the position financed by the lottery funds for the financing of the work of associations which are very often carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15476	A review of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15477	Thank you very much. So, the government assures us at one point the association is something that isn't funded in times of crisis, now you're saying associations are something great and it's being financed from other positions as well. Mr. Secretary of State 2 million and 440 thousand kuna divided by the number of primary schools is approximately the amount in hundreds of kunas over the year how many schools are entitled to this item to encourage extracurricular activities. 100 kuna, so it is not even to pay for a ticket to Zagreb tram or bus to leave the children somewhere. It's embarrassing, so this is not symbolic this is less than symbolic. I have suggested a double of this amount, to be a little less symbolic, but it is symbolic still, and I think that because of the very low level of volunteerism and the fulfillment of the quality of free time, this item is very important, especially in the elementary school where habits for life are acquired, therefore I remain on the amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15478	161st Amendment of MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15479	The amendment is not accepted, so it is again the lottery assets from which, in accordance with the law or decision of the Government, the amount and the amount of funds allocated to the work of the associations in the education sector is allocated. What is actually a fact, the fact that during this year and also to assume is at least early next year that the work of associations in schools themselves and their entry into school will be difficult and in this context this means will certainly be sufficient, especially given the fact that they can achieve up to the height of the Croatian lottery.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15480	A review of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15481	Thank you very much. Well, extracurricular activities have been neglected in primary school which we clearly see through the items we discussed during the last amendment, and in high schools and high schools are even more neglected, and the amount is also even more symbolic. So I also asked for a double of this amount because in high schools it is very important to continue to cultivate a culture of extracurricular activities, creative and constructive fill-in of the free time of students and their guidance and specialization days that will help them to further choose their calling, colleges or employment if it comes to vocational schools. That's why I'm staying on the amendment and I'm going to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15482	162. Amendment of MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15483	The amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are related to the implementation of activities under the Twinning projects and are related to the development of national qualification frameworks. The Ministry of Science and Education has so far participated in the implementation of two such projects and there is the possibility of further projects being implemented in the next period. Twinning project implementation funds are planned at the source of five other two aids and no additional resources are needed at other sources because, as well as the lottery at the source, five resources can be planned and opened during the year and spent up to the level of resources achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15484	A review of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15485	Thank you very much. This is an amendment that I repeat from budget to budget and always hear about the same arguments, and I can also tell you that in the National Qualifications Framework or the Croatian Qualifications Framework we are systematically late. It's a system we have, we don't use, we haven't adapted it enough to actually stagnate all the time. And instead of investing in some money to finally make it work the way it should and how it should be imagined, we keep listening here about how it uses funds from other positions, how these funds are enough, and on the other hand, the system still doesn't systematically improve and we don't see the progress that we should see. That's why I'm staying on the amendment and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15486	163rd Amendment of MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15487	The amendment is not accepted for reasons why, in accordance with the Technical Culture Act, the Regulation on criteria for the identification of users and the way in which the gambling income is distributed has already been explained several times today. The funds can be made up to the amount to which they can also be made available.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15488	A review of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15489	So we're talking about encouraging STEM areas to strengthen students' competences in this area, about studying STEM programs, one of them is, of course, a technical culture. If you consider that the captain of technical culture at primary school is 35 hours a year to listen from the 5th grade, then you can see how much technical education our students will receive. In accordance with the high school chosen by that captainate, it could be zero or it could be more. So if they choose high school, and then they can also study the sum of the field and technical sciences, that amount of the captain will be zero. Therefore, I believe that the term is very important to encourage beyond the teaching programme of technical culture. This is also one symbolic amount that would be intended for that. However, it is greater than the amount allocated by the government and it has been the same for many years now, which is zero kuna. If on the one hand we say that we have an important area, that technical exact sciences are important to us, that we want to direct the students in that direction, that in that future, then we also have to stand by those words, and I think this is, in order for this to be a step in that direction. I repeat once again, with a symbolic amount. That's why I'm staying on the amendment and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15490	Okay. Since it's been three hours and 30 hours, we have to take a break to clear the space, and then we'll take 10 minutes off. We'll continue at 35. By 16.35 is a break, up to 16.35. It's 4:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16:35 A.M.]] 164th Amendment, MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15492	... Excuse me. [[Specially enabled.]] The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons why the funding for public higher education programmes is planned in sufficient amount. They have been calculated on the basis of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Decision on the programme financing of public higher schools in the Republic of Croatia since the academic year 2020/'21. The amount foreseen for the programme financing of higher schools is also set out in a specific position in this draft budget to ensure the financing of artistic activities, i.e. their external cooperation, as well as the financing of scientific journals, also in a special position. For this reason, it looks as if the amount has been reduced, and it is not actually reduced but is at the level of the 2020 plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15493	A review, representative Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15494	Well, it's hard to agree that the funds are set out in the '21 budget. A year to finance science is enough. So already at the start of about 60 million kunas is smaller than those foreseen by the Government's Decision on the programme financing of public higher schools in the Republic of Croatia. The original amount of 228 million kuna should be further increased in order to ultimately achieve the release from participation of all students at public universities. That's ours, that's my suggestion. Since, therefore, in addition to the Vatican Treaties, which detect the amount from each year's budget, countless amounts for spiritual restorations, various budget items, have decided to give more to persecuted Christians, I guess because in the early Christians we are persecuted ecumenical sects, my proposal is to reduce support to religious communities to give science. This amount is certainly not enough, and support for religious communities is more than enough, first of all, to enable free education and publicly available education for all. If someone thinks it's too much, then they're in trouble, let's say on some proportionate side of the budget. In any case, these are, therefore, this proposal, as well as a series of others, have been rejected. We expect that Christian what, by ecumenical practice, is likely to strengthen science in STEM areas and humanities, and in any case, I hope that you are right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15495	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15496	The amendment is not accepted. We've already had this amendment a few times, a colleague has arrived recently, so I'm going to repeat everything we've talked about in a short time, and it's actually a source of funding for lottery funds that, regardless of what amount is planned here, can be achieved up to an amount that is higher or smaller. What is important to emphasise is that compared to the period when the project of the assistants continued, the number of these increased by more than 4 times. In addition, a special 5-year financing contract from the European Social Fund amounting to just over 362 million kuna and is also being implemented from other sources, the primary founder of the local and regional self-government units. There have been many disputes about the status of assistants, but it is defined by law and must be spoken of within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15497	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15498	Oh, yeah. Oh, I'm sorry. I've heard your argument before. So for teaching assistants, many have asked to increase funds, but what is a fundamental problem with teaching assistants is not only the amount of funds, but the fact that they are people who are previously employed. So they're employees of insecure labor contracts. And they deal, once, and they protect, one of the most vulnerable groups in our schools and in our education system and they should never be outside the system, they should be part of the system. But how in Croatia, is it, we are just at the top of a scale of premium contracts in Europe, thus reflecting on the field of science. In the last year alone, I will remind you that 90% of the contract was signed in 2018, excuse me, 90% of the contract was signed for a certain time, among them are, of course, young people, and among them are the helpers in the follow-up. So the inclusion of children with developmental difficulties is extremely important, and it is important that our assistants continue to be constantly employed. So employees of contracts indefinitely and their existence and the existence of children they protect and who they are dealing with are connected and should certainly, except that, as I say, you mechanically reject this same amendment, because all rightly, many have rightly accepted this fact that it is not good that the assistants continue to receive a small amount, but also that they are outside the system itself, you should consider whether we should not have some particular security reserved for people who are very important and not only important from the perspective of their personal existence because they are in these preeminent labour contracts, but also important for the inclusion of children in schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15499	166th Amendment, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15500	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Science and Education has provided funding in accordance with the provisions of the Preschool Education and Education Act, which co-finances programmes for children with developmental difficulties, gifted children, children members of national minorities and compulsory preschool programme. In the draft budget, the funds have already been increased to co-finance the mandatory preschool programme from 6 million kunas 200 thousand to 8 million and 200 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15501	A review, Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15502	Croatia is at the bottom of the EU by the number of children attending kindergarten, as many as 40% of children do not have the opportunity to go to kindergarten, do not have the same chance of living as the respected state secretary. There are differences in the system before the compulsory primary school education itself, and this affects social and social inequality. For a long time, the EU has insisted that, to include as many children as possible, to have the opportunity to attend kindergartens, so they are placed in all strategic documents, and that is why 2020. when the European Council is 20 years ago. said that at least 90% of children will be able to have all of them, that they all have this possibility of kindergarten from 3 to 7 years old. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia in most parts, 40 JLS do not have the possibility of financial capacity to have, allowing one child's kindergarten. Of course, Croatia is 2015. She had only 19.9 children covered by a manger and 57% of children going to kindergarten. Now, you'll say improved results. I'll tell you why. Because we have an increasing number of children in kindergarten and elementary school. So I ask that, as the objectives are set in 2000. in Barcelona, Croatia does not fulfil any obligations, so I gave this amendment because of a child aged 3rd to 6th. if not able to go to kindergarten it has a less chance than which child is enabled. And on children That you're breaking your policies is more than embarrassing. [[Intruder: Time]] Requesting vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15503	167th Amendment, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15504	The amendment is not accepted. We have already repeatedly cited that according to the Law on Education and Education in elementary and secondary schools founders, means all counties and 34 cities as holders... the financing is in charge of capital activities, i.e. building primary schools and secondary schools and associated sports halls. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the exception to the law is the exception when it comes to facilities where the safety of children and employees themselves, for example destroyed, damaged statistics, some major damage occurred, in such situations involved the Ministry of Science and at the moment there are only 3 such projects that are financed from this position to which you have proposed the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15505	Look around you, Representative Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15506	In Sinj we have a school hall that leaks, children literally have to have boots and umbrellas to train. Does this deserve a city that has 25,000 inhabitants and an end that has 50,000 inhabitants? That's true. Here is behind you a man who was mayor, he is familiar with it, but more he deals with party staffing and as mayor and now as vice president of parliament than solving problems, Ante Sanader, that children play in boots in the hall in Sinj. And from year to year I repeat to you both here and in the county, County as founder. And no one cares that this hall is sneezing, that this hall is falling apart, that this hall roof has broken through since the Homeland War, no one's taken any action. We also have the KK “Alkar”, a well-known KK “Alkar” who cannot play in the hall. So where's he gonna play? He's gonna play somewhere on the ice and on the street? Did you make it possible for that forgotten burn, forgotten neighborhoods? Yes, you forgot Sinju. You forgot. I'm sorry there's no parliamentary representatives from that neighborhood. Where are they? They're gone. Ante Sanader is there by chance is the vice president of the assembly or else he would rather not be if this is true and these are the facts, the school hall of the middle school leak, the umbrella when it rains, not funny, but it's sad that you justify yourself through some kind of administrative answers, the cobwebs that have nothing to do with reality. So do you live in a real world? And not only is it not heard that there are no parliamentary representatives here from most of what is shame, not one, but even on Croatian, Croatian television, you have envied Bačić the editor-in-chief of what is that, not to show this assembly, that no one hears what we are talking about and what we are proposing. Do you know distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the opposition that this.../Intruder: Time Intruder: Time [[No one can hear? This is now closed...]] Invasion: Time/... a voice, the voice of a troubled people, and I demand a vote. [[... session. And that's your goal not to hear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15507	168th Amendment of the Honorable Representative of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15508	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation with a brief supplement when we talk about the danger of the safety of the students and the employees of the school then thought of jeopardizing in terms of static, thought of some sort of elemental accident, but if somewhere a little leaks or more roofs, so I guess a city that has the status of the city has such fiscal capacity that it can rescind... The roof and these positions here are not exceptional for such cases but only in those cases where an authorised court expert, based on his findings, makes a solution in which he will say that the safety of the students or employees themselves is at risk. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15509	Dear Representative Boška Ban Vlahek. She's not here. 169th Amendment of Parliament, Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15510	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that K733051 has been planned in this proposal for the state budget for the implementation of the project “Milan Amrusa” in Slavonski Brod. The Ministry of Science and Education in cooperation with the school and its founder, it is the town of Slavonski Brod, working on the final preparation of the project documentation we expect from the city, but we have not yet received all the details, as well as the corresponding costs, which will then be the basis for the initiation of the public procurement process.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15511	Dear Representative Rose Vukovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15512	Thank you. So, with my amendment, I envisioned the amount of 20 million kuna necessary for the construction of the “Milan Amruša” OS in Slavonski Brod, so schools for children with special needs and this by transferring the funds foreseen for the work of the Professional Service of the Council for National Minorities, the Professional Service for National Minorities. So, 2019. Apparently, it worked perfectly normally with an amount of 38 million kuna, for 2021, the government predicted more than 50 million kuna for the National Minority Professional Service. Why? These funds obviously buy the government's coalition partner, and funding the building of a primary school for children with developmental difficulties instead of the abundant funding of the National Minorities Council would allow decent schooling of their children, so to children of all nationalities who have special needs. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15513	170th Amendment of Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15514	The amendment is not accepted because the financing of this project stems from the provisions of Art. 48th, 49th and 50th. Law on pre-school education and education, which determines that in the budget the founders of pre-school education and education institutions, i.e. in the budgets, units of local and regional self-government provide funding for the construction and equipment of pre-school institutions, not in the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15515	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15516	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, so you just told your colleague and colleague there must be a city where fiscal opportunities come from so that it could cover the city itself. So, this amendment, I don't know if you're aware of it at all if I'm not, in fact here at the end of this day I became aware that I will never write any of the amendments again because it obviously doesn't make sense. So it's a waste of both time and paper, etc., etc. In the end, let's raise the people who make the wages there. However, are you aware that there are units of local administrations and self-government that are unable to build a specific object of this type on their own or near? On the other hand, I don't know if you're aware that in particular here is the Imot region or even more concrete Runovic, actually by refusing this amendment, you're actually questioning the fact that the child in Runovici is worth the same as in any urban environment that is fiscally, in a fiscal sense, pno stronger than Runovic himself? On the other hand, are you thinking about whether one parent's kuna from Runovic is worth as much as someone else's kuna? Are you considering that none of us choose in which part and where they will be born? And do you, after all, like the one that's in this resolute ministry, make sure that each of us has the right to grow peacefully, to grow up as well, to grow up in accordance with what you often call, that's standard, that's the state's pedagogue standard? So, I'm asking for a vote on this amendment, and I absolutely don't accept the dung explanation and rejection of this amendment because the coming one should definitely be in your domain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15517	The 171st amendment of MP Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15518	So this amendment is not accepted. An explanation as well as for the previous one in order to further elaborate a little, the same information was mentioned earlier that was not very reliable. So our child coverage currently with preschool education from 4 to 6 is at 81%, from 0 to 6 72%, and the figures are increasing significantly year by year. And what is also important to note is that measures 741 of the Rural Development Fund finance the adaptation, addition and construction of new kindergartens that are under way over the last year of two days in the amount of cca. 500 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15519	Thank you, Chairman. Here's the case. I was head of primary school for 6 years, and parallel to that behavioral function, the executive function of the chief who consumes measure 741. You want me to tell you how I feel about that? We are not in a position to finance fiscal opportunities. So 50% of the funds on an object that costs cca. Nine million kunas 50% of the money I get right now, the other 50% we need to give ourselves. In what way? In what way? Give me an explanation of how I'm going from home budget if I'm receiving 5 million kuna a year, how am I going to give out of these 5 million kunas 4 million kunas to finance the kindergarten? Thus, the preschool training unit in the “Snakes” OS is one of the few institutions of such a type within the Republic of Croatia. For her, the truth is a competent founder, but it is located in the premises of the school. In the primary school premises. What's even more important to me than this whole story, has anyone ever wondered what's ultimately with the capacity for children of a man's age? No one ever. And now you've answered here that there's a possibility of measure 741, you just put this previous request in the category of some kind of paper, so it's unclear to me what is the role of all of you if we're talking preschool education? You want to call on the preschool law that's had cosmetic changes, I don't know when or what? I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15520	172. Amendment by MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15521	Yeah. And we had this amendment. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the responsible holder of the common economic policy is also responsible as the employer of all public and public services in the period from 2016 to 2020. ensure an increase in public employees' salaries in height, some even over 20%. Maybe only numbers work, that increase at the annual level currently amounts to over 5 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15522	Representative Miro Bulj's review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15523	Thank you very much. How do you refuse these amendments, did you accept this one?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15524	No, I told you he'd say no.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15525	You accepted this amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15526	The amendment refuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15527	Accepted? Refused? Here's to knowing, you know... Now they've ruled out means and public television regardless of what the state budget is. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This amendment I gave for funding, meaning warm meals for all children in primary schools in the most vulnerable areas of the Republic of Croatia, it is in areas like, Gorsko kotar, Slavonia and Baranja, Dalmatian Zagora, in undeveloped mountain-mounted areas, this amount of just over 5.5 million kuna would allow our children in those parts to have one meal. Your explanation has nothing to do with my amendment, you're like swallowing a tape, that old taper that snuck into a tape recorder and you keep repeating the same story, same wall, same religion, if you know if you've ever had an encounter with the Grdellas and so on, taught you to remember, put your tie on, brought you here. And you know what we're talking about here as people's representatives in the first place? Is it any shame to look us in the eye here at all and to go before the people without your parliamentary representatives here you should not have come to Minister brave hero of Sanader's government Fuchs, legend of education. What he is, is the greatest legend he's really done is great works, so already when the great deeds of some of his father at least visit the hospital if he won't I will. At least that's what I'm gonna do. So you don't give a meal to children to even so improve our farm local, to achieve that cooperation that our children have in poor areas for a meal. So who will be left for you, my dears? Say hello to Minister Fuchs, let him greet the father who put him as minister. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15528	Amendment 173.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15529	The amendment is not accepted, the planned funds on this project are sufficient to start the implementation of this project of the construction of OS Milan Ambruš in Slavonski Brod for children with special needs. The Ministry of Science and Education, in cooperation with the school and founder, is working on the final preparation of the project documentation, we expect the City of Slavonski Brod to deliver it to us as soon as possible, and then the procurement process will be launched. Obviously, this project has something to do with this project documentation slowly going on, because we've been planning these funds for two years or even more in the state budget, and it's not going to start. Here I am, and I am convinced that it is now near the end that it will be launched and that these funds will certainly be sufficient to begin the realization of this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15530	Dear representative Marina Opačak Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15531	Thank you. Here I must express my sincere and deep regret for refusing this extremely important amendment for a large number of children in Brod-Posavina County, which is more so because in the draft budget in part of education, the most resources were removed from the items concerning children with developmental difficulties, and by accepting this amendment you could at least ease the impression of incompetence towards this group. OS Milan Ambrus in Slavonski Brod is the only school for children with special needs in the area of the entire County of Brod-Posavina who has literally been asking for help in building an adequate space for rehabilitation and education for years. Why do these children constantly bypass or offer insufficient resources, and about now in this budget proposal for the next year with projections for the next two, so three more years of uncertainty and uncertainty? I would like to remind you that the City of Slavonski Brod financed the construction of project documentation for this project, secured land for construction, and issued a building permit for the school building of 4,500 m2 which was intended for work for about 250 students. These children are currently staying in inadequate space and waiting for you year after year. I assure you that there is a legitimate need to co-finance this project by the state, so I am asking for a vote on the amendment and I appeal to all MPs that the funds proposed by the amendment are accepted and that the planned funds are not taken away from the most sensitive group of children who truly deserve the final achievement of the necessary conditions for psychosocial rehabilitation, education and education because it is embarrassing that we will probably be discussing the Slavonia project tomorrow, where millions and billions are mentioned, while it is impossible for you to provide funds for an educational institution for our children in Slavonia. It's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15532	The 174th Amendment is a representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15533	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that it is proposed contrary to the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools, which does not provide for the possibility of providing funds for the construction of high school facilities and sports halls, but is in the jurisdiction of the founders who, in accordance with their plans and capabilities, share the same work. And the Central State Budget of the Ministry of Science can only do this in situations that I have just explained, the safety of students and teachers themselves. Even this position at which an increase in funds is proposed is not intended for these activities, this position shall finance expenditures for secondary school staff systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15534	A review, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15535	Thank you. I didn't expect anything else. You rejected every amendment. So here I was looking for the City of Ploče building school, that amendment we gave, and last year you refused it, you say the founder should handle it, and the founder is also on the amendment that our council members in Dubrovnik-Neretva County rejected the project. So the City of Ploce with Dubrovnik-Neretva County concluded a co-operation agreement on the implementation of the project, it was in 2007, the owner of the land is the City of Ploce and here since 2007 nothing with the construction of the school. The project plans to build new premises for a secondary vocational school with a corresponding sports hall, to form a functionally unique high school complex and the City of Ploče has given up means that it has secured building land, has given up paying for the municipal contribution, has assumed the obligation to provide complete infrastructure to the facility, and since the signing of this contract that I mentioned last 13 years. Nothing has been done and here it seems that again the high school students in the Neretva Valley in Ploča will be left without adequate accommodation. So, I demand here I don't know who to address, there's not a single HDZ representative, I can invite here the vice president of the Sanader Assembly to pass on to them to support this amendment. Especially those who come from Dubrovnik-Neretva County Mr. Bacic has been elected now as president, so let him do something for that county. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15536	175th Amendment of Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15537	The amendment is not accepted for reasons why funds for the work of public universities and higher schools are planned in the head of 06 universities and universities in the Republic of Croatia at the joint position of A621148 are regular activities of the university and higher schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15538	Željko Pavić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15539	Dear Mr Secretary, I will inform you that Veleučište Hrvatska Zagorje, Krapina is the only university in Zagorje which has its headquarters in Zagorje and is of great importance to Krapina as a town and our county. I asked for this amendment because there are two problems. The first problem is that we received information from the dean that he provided the ministry with data on work needs for the following year worth 5 million kuna, and in that joint item you mentioned earlier, a total of 3.5 million kuna is reserved. So he's missing, so he's missing 2 million $400,000. If this is not approved, we will have a big problem in, at that university because at present accreditation is under way and the Science and Higher Education Agency is demanding that teaching be maintained in a way that at least 30% of the teaching is maintained by teachers who are employed at the university. At present, however, only 5.2 teachers who work in the classroom are employed at the university, which is not enough and are currently working to hire another teacher who is actually going to be financed from their own funds, but there is not enough money to cover it entirely. That means the university will get a bad grade, and they'll get a bad grade because the ministry doesn't have the money to hire other people. And the second part of the money that's missing, you know, and it's an old debt, and if teachers sue the university for that old debt, they'll be charged interest, court costs and everything else. And it's actually going to throw the university into an even bigger problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15540	The 176th Amendment has been withdrawn. The 177th Amendment is Honored Representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15541	The amendment does not accept the reason why the amendment applies to the position of own and dedicated incomes of the regular activity of the University of the North, which is like these lottery funds can be planned in an unlimited amount and executed up to the amount of funds to be made. It's not accepted accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15542	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15543	Dear Secretary of State I can absolutely understand you from bureaucratic level, but what I would like to draw your attention to, and I am sure that you know that, first of all, the University of the North was created by the investments of the town of Koprivnica and the town of Varazdin and that it is one of the few Croatian public universities that primarily originated in the financing of the local community. I can accept the government of the Republic of Croatia's budgetary plans to invest more, sometimes somewhere less, but what is the fact of this eighth public university in the Republic of Croatia, based in Koprivnica, is that despite the investments that were in the 10 million kuna from the city budget of the town of Koprivnica and today there are no corrections to the injustices we have, which is that we get far the least funds and by the number of students and that we have the smallest framework to be able to employ new people regardless of the success that the University of the North gets and shows when the time of the preliminary exams comes. On the other hand, this project or this item why we set out in it was for the reason that 3 years ago, by decision of the Ministry of Science and Education, the scientific innovation centre was removed, the number of points needed, the Administrative Court, the administrative dispute at the Administrative Court, the Administrative Court ruled that the University of North was right, the Ministry of Regional Development said that they had no further problems because they were willing to respect the will of the Court and after that everything was brought down to the Ministry of Science and Education where we again pretend that the case and that court did not exist. I can understand you, I repeat on the bureaucratic side, on the side of budget management, but I think the University of the North deserved more significant investment from the state budget in its regular activities because if the main building was built by the city, if the cafeteria made a university out of its own resources, if a laboratory was launched for the needs of the Faculty of Food and Biotechnology from its own resources, then the state should at least respect the verdicts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15544	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15545	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15546	Thank you. The 178th Amendment of Congress of Katica Glamuzine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15547	The amendment is not accepted by the proposed funds sufficient to carry out the activities in 2021, especially given the fact that the same activities and the financing of the departures of gifted students to international Olympics, the world championships, and that during this year we have actually had the situation that we had to rebalancing the funds, have had to reduce whether many activities have been delayed and have not taken place given this Covid situation as expected in the first part of the following year. If there are any changes, we will react without delay, but the funds are proposed as early as last year, based on the full amount, expecting the situation to normalise.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15548	The esteemed representative of Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15549	Thank you. I don't know if you've followed how many MPs have given a similar amendment Perhaps it can be concluded that many MPs feel that this is important, and the answer is the same for all of you. [[Intruder: 6, 7.]] I don't know if he's a little funny to you already. It's not an incentive to give gifts is not financing international competitions, the Olympics. Working with gifted students what precedes that. Encouragement of gift is currently more a set of happy circumstances than some sort of systematic work. There are too often stories from both children and students who have made such successes that they owe their success an extremely optional work of their mentors and support of their family, and the education system itself is not effective in encouraging generosity. Too many children go undetected, unrecognized because they don't have all the mentors who will recognize them and work with them and don't all come from families that have resources to support them. In schools there is no program for gifts even though the law guarantees it, there are no systematic concepts of enriching content, there are no education systems of teachers and teachers to identify and work with gifted children. Although gifted children are under Croatian law, children with special needs are also equal to children with developmental difficulties, on the other hand, not treated equally. For children with developmental difficulties, there is at least a recognised concept that they need assistants in teaching, which they do not have, although they also need help because they gallop away from the content their peers follow. Among those children are some new Tesla, Ružička, Đikići, etc., instead of investing in them and supporting those children most capable of pushing us in a positive developmental direction, we reject it. I demand that this be voted on, I want to see precisely, that everyone else sees which MPs and MPs will refuse to invest in the Croatian future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15550	179th Amendment, representative of Mark Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15551	The amendment is not accepted and for the reason that, in addition to the funds proposed in the state budget in this position that are clean, clean budgets, the ministry has provided additional funding from the European Social Fund amounting to more than 321 million kuna over a period of 5 years under which 10,000 scholarships of socioeconomic and 3400 STEM scholarships are granted, which is compared to that period before this project was agreed, the number of scholarships is almost tripled.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15552	Honored representative Milanović litre. He's gone. We have to vote on that. So we're going to the 180th Amendment of Representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15553	What's this 180, that's mine too, right? Okay. The amendment is not accepted. The reasons for the marking activities of the mentioned Bleibur tragedy and the Crossroad were planned by means of a Decision of the Presidency of the Assembly... Since 4 February 2006, they are intended for the organisation of the event of marking the mentioned Bleibur tragedy, assuming that the epidemiological situation is favourable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, the Croatian Parliament will consider reducing the planned funds for this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15554	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15555	Yeah. In the preamble of the Constitution of Croatia, the foundation of Croatian statehood is in period II. svt. The work expresses the decisions of the National Liberation Council of Croatia in 1943, so it is clear in the Constitution that Croatian statehood is expressed in the People's Liberation Movement and that the People's Liberation Army is the Croatian Army. In the Bleiburg Memorial, the Ustashas are wrongly named as the Croatian Army, they are an enemy army under the Constitution. It's legitimate to commemorate every war crime, but not in the way the enemy army is memorialized as a victim. The gathering in the Bleibur field is open to the criminal Ustasha parade and the movements and ideas that Croatia had hard to compromise, leaving a bloody trail behind. Ustashas were performers of fascism and Nazism that killed on the national, religious and racial key, I guess that's what we need to say out loud here. In addition, the Parliament of Austria recognised this when it recently almost unanimously adopted the Resolution on a permanent ban on memorial-political gatherings in Bleiburg, which is the result of a supra-stitious initiative without precedent in Austrian politics. The Austrian and government interior ministry is currently waiting for this resolution to become binding. It is obvious that these further commemorations would harm Croatia's international reputation and therefore the state should not be financed. There seems to be some historical lessons here, so I'll just point out that the army that came to Bleiburg was not a Croatian army but a set of members of several Quislin armies who after the official capitulation 3. Reich and NDK, NDH, refuse to lower their weapons and continue their breakthroughs, struggles to break into Austria where anti-fascist members die armies and civilians. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15556	We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15557	Thank you very much. A colleague, Katarina Peović, injured an article. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because it speaks of Bleiburg and the victims of Bleiburg that only the soldiers were there, the Ustashas, but there were civilians and soldiers who were killed without trial, clans, slaughtered, slaughtered, thrown into the pits without trial, which I believe we must not have any victim in the House because the victim is the victim. No matter who made it, and the attack on Bleiburg has committed a great crime and a blood crime of unprecedented proportions, as far as the Croatian people are concerned and on the Crossroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15558	I would pray that we do not go back to historical matters now, with incorrect allegations of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Whether I agree with my colleague Peović or not, I personally disagree, of course, I will make it clear immediately, but she can, she can say what she thinks is right, so, uh, no injured Rules of Procedure by me. I'm asking you not to start this game now because I'm going to start punishing you. ... You have no right, if you consider the Rules of Procedure injured, you are right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But we'll see, my assessment will be whether he's hurt or not. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15559	So the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, because she disrespects the MP by claiming that she said something she didn't say. So, you didn't listen to what I said, and if you agree that it's necessary to come to the fascist army and members of fascist troops, then you can say that you don't agree with me, Miro, I don't think you mean it yourself, so I don't think you understand, but that's what you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you insult the MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15560	Well, you know it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and this one I'm giving you notice of what I announced in advance, and now I'm going to make warnings every time, I'm not going to have any more tolerance absolutely for this kind of discussion. I didn't give you a warning for the first time, so don't let me give you a warning now, please. We now move on to the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy, respecting Secretary of State Majda Buric. First and 181th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15562	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected MPs and MPs, therefore this amendment is not accepted since the planned funds to improve the protection of victims of domestic violence are sufficient for planned activities in 2021 and, in addition to those activities, the means of protection of victims of violence are also planned in the framework of the operational programme of effective human potential, in the position of priority 2 and 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15563	Who's on behalf of the block Honored representative Boric. [[I'll do it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15564	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State when we started today with amendments to amendment one amendment number 11 was also not related to your ministry, so the means to protect women against violence, to ensure their housing from the ridiculous 350,000 kuna and, of course, that amendment, I thought there was no reason to be rejected, as here your answer is that the funds are sufficient. If I were to calculate those promises that the Prime Minister himself made regarding the implementation of the Istanbul Convention for which safe places for women are key. for shelters, and of all our counties at 6 a.m., we don't have shelters right now. And if you think that the funds you've provided are 2 million 145 thousand enough for 6 shelters regardless of the other niches you suggest they have, then that's really not enough. Hopefully, after 2 years, Grevio comes all those who, opponents of the Istanbul Convention, have talked about the release of millions who will give a billion to protect women against violence, so here they will now know how much women are worth in Croatia, how much their safety is worth that such small funds are provided and of course we will ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15565	182. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15566	The amendment is not accepted, namely by the end of the term of office, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will allow for the right to pay for children without applying and double the allowance for children. Accordingly, the Resorient Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy has begun with activities towards this goal, however it is premature in the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for '21. Year and projections for '22. and '23. increase the amount for material legal protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15567	In the name of the club, the Honorable Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15568	Thank you very much. Dear secretary, I'm just your pre-election promise, i.e. The MOST Club passed it on to the paper. So we transferred to the amendment what you promised as far as children's allowances are concerned. Of course, the need to increase the coverage of children who receive means a child's allowance, and of course they can increase children's allowances and target groups mainly in poor families and families with smaller censorships in their family. But the secretary of state, this is all your play, this is the memorized reading you repeat year after year. In front of an empty assembly where we don't have a single parliamentary representative from most of it, which is embarrassing, it is indeed, if he hears and the chairman should interrupt this session, this fog and this farce, this amendment is really stupid that, even to HTV, you have ordered them not to pass this session so that they don't hear the people they chose, which is a minimum of democracy and in countries like North Vietnam or China, or I don't know where else the totalitarian regimes are. So I would like to ask you once again to support this budget, this proposal to increase children's allowance, to increase mainly target groups, to poor families because these families are leaving. We, you're witnesses here, the secretary of state, and all of us here in the Chetino area is less than two grades of elementary school. The first of 440 children this year, which means we don't have a good demographic system. We have 2/3 of Croatia empty which means that you do not take certain measures or steps. So I ask that this amendment be accepted, and I ask you once again, by chairing this farce and this fog, which is both media-insulated and out of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15569	Thank you very much. The next amendment is 183. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15570	The amendment is not accepted. The resources within division 086 at the position of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy are sufficient to achieve the planned measures, taking into account the funds spent in 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15571	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, the respected representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15572	Dear Secretary of State, so Vice-President Reiner and you are the only representatives of the ruling majority here in the Croatian Parliament, you have come as a representative of the Government to reject the other representatives who have preceded you all our amendments, none of whom has been accepted as much as he has been in favor of our citizens. Here we asked that 40 million kunas be allocated in the state budget for 2021 for the restoration and equipment of homes for children without adequate parental care, raising the quality and availability of social care for SOS children's village Lekenik and Vrbina Sisak, means additional investment in construction facilities and enlargement. And you refused. I was hoping you'd accept this amendment at least. Our MOST organization in Sisak-Moslavina County has referred a number of amendments here to the budget, none of them have been accepted, and we know how difficult the situation is in Sisak-Moslavina County, but unfortunately this is all you are refusing. So, I would ask you to pass on to HDZ deputies to support at least in voting on amendments some of these proposals. It cannot be that out of 150 of our amendments, out of 300 amendments to the opposition no amendment is good and that you do not want to accept it. So, and this is a particularly embarrassing scene, people are sending me messages they can't believe that no MP of the 76 ruling majority is present in the assembly while discussing the most important document on the budget and amendments to the budget of the Republic of Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15573	The 184th Amendment of the Most Representatives, the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15574	The amendment is not accepted, and the reasons are the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15575	On behalf of the Representatives Club, a respected representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15576	So here's the question of Dubrovnik, we've been looking for meaning, and we've opened up the question of the accommodation of elderly people in Dubrovnik, which is at a very low level. Over 30. With all this budget of the city, the county you run, you run the city of Dubrovnik as HDZ, you run Dubrovnik-Neretva County, you run the state, over 30g. No investment was recorded in the construction of a new home. The Medarevo House was planned in the City of Dubrovnik GUP, an idea solution was made, and the building permit in the process of dating, the value of investment of about 130 million kuna, the amendment requires 50 million kuna from the state budget, and the rest would be financed from the EU funds available, the city budget, the county budget, and the funds of the “Blessed Works” Foundation cannot trust this amendment, and they are persons of older age. So, we had this in the previous amendment of children without proper parental care, so for any social group that's threatened when we're looking for something here, some means, you insist that you government refuse without any shame, without blushing in your cheeks and without representatives of the ruling majority here in HS which is unmarked. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15577	The 185th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15578	The amendment is not accepted since the funds are intended to finance homes for children without adequate parental care within division 086 of the Ministry of Labour, Pensions System, Family and Social Policy are sufficient to achieve the planned measures, and given the resources spent in 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15579	On behalf of the Representatives Club, a respected representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15580	Thank you. So, we asked this amendment to secure the miserable funds. 300,000 kuna in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, 300,000 kuna for children with special needs without necessary parental care, 300,000 kuna and you refused. So this measure could cover about 300 children. This measure is extremely human and provides the most vulnerable and sensitive group of our society with several days of vacation and escape from the homes they live in during the year. This can be seen as a kind of rehabilitation measure, as well as an act of goodness of the state towards children without parents who also have special needs and need constant care and care. And so it's been a lot of time for you to get out of the budget of 300,000 kunas for the summer of those kids who are wondering when they're going to go on vacation, this one because we know they're in homes, that no one cares about them. This is really embarrassing. So I expected you to refuse these amendments where we're looking for some larger amounts, but to refuse the amendment in which we're looking for 300,000 kunas for children who have two problems. So, first they're without parental care, second they're with special needs. It's real, it's really embarrassing. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15581	186th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15582	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, by the end of the term of office, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will allow for the right to pay for children without applying and double the allowance for children. Accordingly, the Resorient Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy has begun its activities towards this goal. However, it is premature in the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for '21. As well as the '22 projections. and in '23. increase the amount for material legal protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15583	On behalf of the MPs' club, respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15584	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State Buric, I don't know the one who wrote the explanation did he read the amendment? So this is not about the increase, the increase in the amount of child's allowance, but it's about the elimination of the censorship to obtain the ultimate add-on. Look, today is, today's ultimate supplement has become some kind of social measure, and it has to be one stimulating measure and now I don't understand it, it's... The one who wrote it in the clerk, I know it's a lot of amendments, but I don't think he even read it or that you refused this amendment without knowing what you refused. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not your fault, some clerk prepared it for you, I'm guessing it's not you, but I think it's a little unserious. So he was rejected in a way that was not explained at all, that the clerk hadn't read it. And what is crucial is, to point out, here I will stress it several times through the explanation of my amendments that your ministry, which is increasingly the Ministry of Demography, is increasingly the ministry of everything else, and more and more, so that these ministries, or that the Croatian government, simply, simply gave up, fellow Members... that the Croatian government simply gave up demographics as strategic aspects of its policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you remember for sure Andrej Plenkovic, 2016, when he spoke about demographic restoration, was full of children's mouths, and today Andrej Plenkovic is not talking about demographics at all, and Croatia has the worst, meaning the worst demographic situation ever, ever. And as for Andrej Plenkovic's mandate year after year, the situation was worse, it was no better than a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15585	187th Amendment, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15586	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as the previous amendment and note that the ministry is resolutely referred to as the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, Family and Social Policy, and as regards demographics, since it is also the Central State Office for Demography.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15587	On behalf of the club, honourable representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15588	Dear Secretary of State Buric, here you have actually said the key thing, in which I pointed out the first day when the Croatian government composed that Andrej Plenkovic and gave up the Ministry of Demography. If the demography from the ministry had been reduced to the category of the state office, and now you instead of ignoring this one of my laps, you actually boast and say that, the Croatian government and Andrej Plenkovic are no longer taking care of demographics, he transferred it to the central state office. Well, I'd keep my mouth shut, I'd keep my mouth shut. And in that central state office, as neither of you in the ministry once did, there was no expert, a demographic, the last one was Mr. Stromoth, who left the ministry, you know the same thing. So Croatia, if you don't know, annually, as far as natural decline is concerned, loses 18 to 19 thousand people, or we have 18 to 19 thousand less born than we have dead. If we add up to that a negative migration balance, it is easy to figure out how few people we have each year. Corona will pass, however, this problem which is the biggest problem of the Croatian state will remain. However, to be honest, I will say, this is not only a problem for Croatia, so this is a problem for Western civilization, but I will dare say that Croatia is also ahead of the EU, ahead of Europe, world ahead. Since we are a small country, we will soon have no problem because we simply won't be. So I'm asking for a vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15589	188th Amendment, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15590	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as the previous amendments, which will be further complemented by the fact that, according to a legislative plan for 2021, the Central State Office for Demography and Youth has in its draft draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Youth Tips and draft draft Law on Parental and Birth Support. Of course, I would particularly like to stress that by the end of the term of office, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will allow the right to pay for children without applying and double the allowance for children.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15591	On behalf of the club, honourable representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15592	I must first comment on the honorary secretary of state that apparently this amendment has not been read, and now you can read it, too, you have had time. So it's not even about the increase in the child's allowance, it's about a whole other thing. So here you are specifically working to allow for each child, 3rd and 4th in the family a child's allowance without.../incomprehensible/... excuse me to allow a promising supplement without the category of child's allowance being satisfied. Because I'm going to repeat, a child's allowance can't be a social measure, it has to be a stimulating measure. Or we will only be able to change the demographic situation in Croatia through stimulating measures. But here, I demand a vote of course on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15593	189th Amendment, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15594	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15595	On behalf of the club, honourable representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15596	Here, this would be the last amendment to demographics. I once again have to point out what is very, very important, here, I would like, dear secretary of state to have you memorialize it and, at any time, pass it on to the Prime Minister. The biggest problem of the Croatian state, with the health problems that we have, and related to the coronary crisis, the economic problems we have with the problem, here it is, the introduction of the euro, is the demographic disaster we are facing. Unfortunately, Andrej Plenkovic does not do anything about it, as many others do, but whether the Croats will live richer or more quality or less is less important, but the most important thing is whether we will be or not be. And the Croats will soon be in Croatia because with such a birth policy and with such numbers that are defeated, our country will soon become empty. I don't know if that's what those words come to your ears and then... Here, I see, the fourth time I've told you the same thing, and I haven't noticed any change in facial expression, so I'm going to point out one more time. Dear Secretary of State, you had to find hearing about these demographic measures because if we don't find a way to encourage young Croatian families to reproduce soon, we'll all be in a very big problem and economical, and also the concrete one, which is that we'll be a state without people. And of course I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15597	190th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15598	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, the funds planned in the personal disability position are sufficient for the exercise of that right and, of course, given the funds spent in 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15599	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15600	No, I know the secretary of state who's done 1,500 kuna, I really don't know who's enough. In fact, we suggested 250 kuna increase and I said it last week that it was miserable and that 250 kuna, but it's at least a small step forward. But coming to this pay phone and saying that someone's enough 1,500 kuna is embarrassing. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15601	191th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15602	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds for the function of the home are provided for additional balancing activities for decentralised functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15603	On behalf of the club, a respected representative of Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15604	Thank you very much. Respected secretary of state. We are really wondering whether you in the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy have heard about the people who built this country today are asking for some help. For the home of this pensioner in Rasa last year we asked for help from the state budget and I must say that the Istrian County has found the means to create as many better conditions as possible, but new rules and new standards have been adopted for homes. If this home for which the Istrian County and the Rasa Municipality have been resolved and the project documentation for the upgrade, the reconstruction of this home by new standards from 2023 will be reduced from 61 to 40, so we 21 users throw out on the road i.e. We're reducing capacity. So since there is already a complete building permit, there is a will to co-finance by the municipality and by the county does the state have that feeling and the need to simply co-finance such projects? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15605	192. Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15606	The amendment is not accepted because the funds for the function of the home are secured for additional balancing activities for decentralised functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15607	Dear Representative Lerotić on behalf of the club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15608	Can you indicate how much funds they are. No, how much resources are secured, you know? That's the question, I don't know if...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15609	It's in the budget, it's in the budget. This is not the default dialogue in between.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15610	Okay. It is like when we talked before when we proposed for port infrastructure, so 78 million kuna was secured in the territory of Croatia, and only we from the IDS suggested I don't know 400 or 500 million kuna investments in port infrastructure, so I said then and then and now, we're not just talking about fiscal decentralisation but also functional decentralisation and then some civil servant in some office in Zagreb decides how and what it takes at local level, and of course there is no money or ever will be. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15611	193rd Amendment of MP Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15612	The amendment is not accepted, since the planned funds within the division of the Ministry of Labour, Pensions, Family and Social Policy are sufficient to provide social assistance and compensation, and given the resources spent in 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15613	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15614	Thank you. What's interesting here is that social funds aren't being accepted, and I know that the argument I've heard multiple times, but what we're interested in is basically why at the moment when we have a rise on the scale of all indicators of poverty and social exclusion doesn't admit that it's one of the most important things. I know that in your explanation, you've given me the explanation that you've given before others, but what's behind the dissatisfaction of most of the socialists is the question, why don't you admit to the fact that we're on the so-called. The scales of poverty and social exclusion progressed to say so. So every year we came one place more or less as you look, so here's the 2019 we climbed to the 7th place with the 8th place, where we were 2018 with the 10th place we were in 2017. What does these indicators of poverty and social exclusion mean? I suppose you know that I don't have to interpret it, but one of those facts is that almost a million people are at risk of poverty, that 10% of people can't afford a meal every other day that contains meat, chicken, fish or some vegetarian equivalent, that something less than 52% settle unexpected financial expenditure, that 15.7 late with payment means housing credit, rent, billing for directors or consumer credit. Covid-19 crisis only made such a situation worse Of course we put that amendment to the vote. [[Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15615	193rd Amendment of MP Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15616	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, the planned funds within division 086 of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy are sufficient to achieve the planned measures since no increase in labour demand is expected in the event of bankruptcy in 2021 and should also be noted here that there is no legal basis to reduce the planned amount for pensions to 0 kuna as it is acquired rights, and the state guarantees social security and a gradual reduction of the amount is actually due to natural drains, and any counter-action would be affected by the principle of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15617	Dear representative Peovic. You're asking for a vote, you're not asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15618	To ask for a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15619	Thank you very much. 195th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15620	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds for that activity within the division 086 of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy are intended for the financing of institutions for older and powerless persons who are the founder of the Republic of Croatia and are sufficient to achieve the planned measures, and taking into account the funds spent in 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15621	Dear Representative Bulj. You're looking for a vote, You're not looking? [[Intruder: 195.]] Are you looking or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15622	Here I would, yes, yes, yes, yes. So homes for older and powerless are needed, project documentation and this money I said is necessary because we can't have Split and that pool Split, Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia forgotten. Not only is everything happening in Zagreb and the surroundings of Zagreb. I would only eventually ask you in front of this empty assembly with a few of us from the opposition clubs above all that is embarrassing to Split, Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia is absolutely forgotten in this budget. In this case, they are older and powerless. In this case, it's about our oldest, the nursing homes, the planning documentation, but you don't have the will, you don't have the will, you're just sent here by your colleagues. Secretary of State, that learning what they told you to say and you're aware that's the way it is. I do not know if there are greater sorrows in democracy such as these amendments and proposals from the parliamentary deputies now that the entire assembly is empty where most parliamentary deputies are located and that no one from the majority would have been the chairman of the Reiner, and probably not that he would not be, no matter what the parliamentary representative is causing anger, disdain, misery, which is why Croatian democracy, obedience based on Sanaderism, because they are all his disciples, he is their father, so do not forget the oldest in Dalmatia, you have forgotten children and young families, and therefore accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15623	Are you asking for a vote? Yes or no? You're probably looking for a fellow Bull, I guess not. 197th Amendment of Representative Bulja Excuse me, 196th Amendment of Representative Bulj. [[/Intruder: Sixth, 196.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15624	The amendment is not accepted. The planned resources within division 086 of the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy are sufficient to achieve all planned measures and, of course, taking into account the funds spent in 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15625	Thank you very much. Compensation for parents during treatment, the treatment of their children must be found in an opportunity to ensure. In a large number of cases, children who are in a hospital with health problems do not have the opportunity to be with those children who have certain treatments and health problems. So please take another look at the height of those people, take the spider off your eyes, look at what, that misery, don't be the blind in this. You could quote thousands of songs now, thousands of lyrics I don't know how to quote, but that this is pathetic and pathetic and that the spider in your eyes can't believe, but the spider in your eyes to the most vulnerable, to children, their parents, children who don't have the money to be with them on therapy, that they can have a place to stay, that they can eat something, but simply leave those people and those children in the streets, leave them alone, leave them in their misery. So once again, in front of an empty assembly room where most and several state secretaries who will read to them what Andrej Plenkovic wrote to them, and Minister Maric, be bold to fellow Members of Parliament who did not have the courage to come to the assembly here to listen to this, so be bold and dared to take the spider off your eyes, see the poor, sick, children, elderly, abandoned, do not be sufficient yourself here to be decorated under these lights in the assembly. I demand a vote on this amendment. 197th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15627	The amendment is not accepted. Funds on this activity are planned for other benefits and assistance and prescribed by the Social Care Act within division 086 of the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy and are sufficient to bear in mind the funds spent in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15628	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15629	I think that's a lot said by the secretary who, the strmota who was leaving the Ministry of Social Affairs so that the rejection of new amendments that enhance the social status of our most endangered citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that we as parliamentary representatives have to look at these people, the refusal of new amendments that you refuse without remorse, in fact, I think Stramota said well that you only do PR and play. In order for social policy and demographics in the Republic of Croatia to move forward first of all, we must respect constitutional law, which is the right to have social protection, all equal that we are according to the law. So once again I call upon you, support these amendments regarding our oldest, our most endangered, our children, no, I know that you'll say it's not that, that's what we'll do. Unfortunately, it's not like that, it's not like that. Believe me, a lot of kids, parents don't have a marenda, they don't have dinner, their parents don't get paid now in the covid crisis, they're done, they're in trouble, and you don't think that way. So once again all of these amendments that you reject from the opposition, which have a social component which is most important and which is our constitutional right and for which we created to be equal, to be protected, to have the same health care services, allow our weakest team to enable them to make that minimum possible, and this amendment would allow it. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15630	The 198th Amendment of MP Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15631	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15632	It becomes an integral part of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15633	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15634	We're moving on to the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, Secretary of State Tonchi Glava. Amendment No. 199th IP, Smart and Voice Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15635	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Okay? The award of state awards and other awards for sports achievements was prescribed by the Sport Act. In addition, by analysing the multi-annual Olympic and Olympic cycles, the time period of 4g. We can assess how the greatest successes, top sports achievements, as well as the greatest funding for the awards must be planned in the year of the Olympic and Olympic Games and the Olympic Games of the Deaf. In accordance with the above analysis, a fixed amount is sufficient and does not require an increase. Given that the tourism sector is primarily small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in tourism is extremely affected in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, small-value support is of paramount importance for the recovery and survival of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in the tourism sector, and strengthening the competitiveness of the tourism economy, so that the reduction of value to the A587055 activity in question by 11 million and 500 thousand kuna did not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15636	On behalf of the club, respected representative Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15637	Thank you, Chairman. I hope that the proposer in the following arguments will be a little less dry. And first of all, I would like to draw attention to this situation where, when discussing amendments to the budget, there is not a single representative of the ruling, it is the consequence of a very corrupt, very bad Rules of Procedure and I hope, I call on the opposition here to understand that this is what we must first unite and challenge what is now in the Rules of Procedure in dispute. The lack of interest of the rulings in the debate, and we have heard that there have been very high-quality amendments, shows their democratic deficit. And I warmly hope that this haughtiness will come to them already in the next election. And as I said before, the opposition must fatten its ranks. As for the amendment itself, our tourism workers have been affected, but athletes have also been affected. We propose to reduce the item on the competitiveness of the tourism economy by 11.5 million kuna, and to switch to the development of sport, and precisely because it is 2020. was very difficult for athletes due to an epidemic of coronary viruses and related measures and restrictions, a great burden fell on sport. The athletes were significantly limited in their activities and we believe that by increasing the award for top sports achievements we can help restore top sport in Croatia, and this is especially important since it is '21st. years of holding the Olympic Games. We ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15638	The 200th Amendment of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15639	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Law on Sports, and the Regulation on the granting of permanent monthly monthly fees to medal winners at the Olympic Games, a pair of Olympic Games, the Olympic Games of Deaf and World Senior Championships in Olympic Sports and Discipline at State Recognition Activities, permanent prizes are awarded to athletes from 45.g. life as a state recognition for a special contribution to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia and is paid every month. The increase in funds on that activity is not necessary because the amount is defined by the basis of the number of persons who, on the same basis, have entered into law. Given that the tourism sector, primarily small and medium-sized enterprises in tourism, is extremely affected by the Covid-19 small-value support, is of paramount importance for the recovery and survival of small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourism sector, and the strengthening of competitiveness and the tourism economy, so that the reduction of value to the activity in question by 3 million kuna is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15640	On behalf of the club, respected representative Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15641	First of all, I have to say that it is not just about those who have achieved this right but about helping those who could yet do so. But in principle, I would like to say that each amendment shows the values, which policy and measures the opposition cares about, which programmes should in some way give priority to. But all amendments, all if the rulings had the will to hear and hear and think about them, and eventually respect them, could not in principle support a bad budget. Transferring funds within certain items can only partially mitigate the damage and consequences of continuing the same bad and missed policies. With this amendment, we actually wanted to support successful athletes for 3 million kuna from the item of tourism and thus help the recovery of sports that will be greatly affected this year. Sport is also one of the tourism generators, so this redistribution would prove to be quite justified over time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15642	Amendment 201 Amendments to the IP, Smart and Glass Club. [[Intruder: I ask that an amendment be put to the vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15643	The amendment is not accepted. The 11 million and 280 thousand kuna funds under the Regulation on criteria for the identification of users and the distribution of part of the gambling income for 2021 will be sufficient for the implementation of violence prevention activities in schools. The level playing field, sovereignty and survival of the Croatian people in BiH is the national and strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. A stable, functional and secure BiH is only possible with the BiH Constitution of established equality between the Croatian people in BiH, strengthening the position of the Croatian people and ensuring conditions for its sustainable stay in BiH protects and ensures national security and stability of the Republic of Croatia and the security and stability of the EU space. Croatia's economic and economic development is growing, BiH is the largest foreign trade partner outside the EU with which the Republic of Croatia is making trade. In this respect, through the activities of education, culture, science and health in BiH, the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia provides assistance in the field of education, culture, science and health in BiH and helps strengthen civil society, empowering youth, rebuilding and building, encouraging BiH through this activity to develop a whole society with an additional emphasis on the Croatian people, as the main drivers of systematic pro-European reform processes and guaranteeing the sustainability of multi-ethnic BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15644	On behalf of the club, respected representative Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15645	I really hope that by the next debate on the budget, the ratio of power in this assembly will change in favour of those who are considering the needs of this country and its citizens, and to the detriment of this other, your HDZ side, which, by its absence from this debate, has shown that you, apart from preserving your own positions and privileges, do not care about anything else. Since none of your representatives, other than you who defend the rejection of the amendments, wanted to hear what the opposition has to say, is obviously stable and certain most of them who will vote this budget, which means that all individual and particular interests are settled. This means that the system of corruption and clientelism has received another injection to survive. With this redistribution proposed by this amendment, we wanted to reduce funding for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia by 9 million and 800 thousand kuna, which we consider to be financed by quite enough funds anyway and reroute them to the position of sport development because Croatia is already under-incentived by the development of local sport and sports competitions. After 2020 when, due to the consequences and measures related to the coronaryvirus epidemic, sport as a whole, and then local sport and local competitions were neglected and put aside, we believe that increased investment in its development and expansion is necessary. We ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15646	Amendments to the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15647	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Tourism and Sports does not accept the proposed amendment for the reason that the project is implemented in cooperation with several partners participating in the implementation with pre-planned material and technical means and is sufficient to implement that project. The level playing field, sovereignty and survival of the Croatian people in BiH is the national and strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. A stable, functional and secure BiH is only possible with the BiH Constitution of established equality between the Croatian people in BiH, strengthening the position of the Croatian people and ensuring conditions for its sustainable stay in BiH protects and ensures national security and stability of the Republic of Croatia and the security and stability of the EU space. Croatia's economic and economic development is growing, BiH is the largest foreign trade partner outside the EU with which the Republic of Croatia is making trade. In this respect, through the activities of the incentives for education, culture, science and health in BiH, the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia provides assistance in the field of education, culture, science and health in BiH and helps strengthen civil society, empowering youth, restoring and building up. BiH's incentives through this activity are aimed at developing a whole society with an additional emphasis on the Croatian people, as the main driver of systematic pro-European reform processes and guaranteeing the survival of multi-ethnic BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15648	Dear Representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15649	Thank you. Croatian programmes outside the Republic of Croatia are generously financed from different budget items. With this redistribution of 2 million kuna, we wanted to reroute this amount to the prevention of school violence and the amount, as well as the one you predicted, is not nearly enough for the implementation of the programme of prevention of violence by sport in schools, which is why we believe that this amount really needs to be increased. This increase would in fact be a minimum without which we cannot even think about equal opportunities and opportunities for all children in Croatia who, through the availability of a programme to prevent violence through sport, can in some way suppress the increased violence that we learn from the media, and also from the report by the attorney general that at the time of the coronary virus pandemic, it is growing. But even during this amendment, I will highlight what I point out on all occasions, which is that we actually need structural reforms. Structural reforms that will significantly allow for the reduction of the expenditure side of the budget by a couple of tens of billions of kunas. And this is actually a matter of quality debate in HS which will obviously begin, either a different ratio of strength during this term or another parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15650	Are you asking for a vote? The 203rd amendment, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. [[Intruder: I request a vote on the amendment, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15651	The amendment is not accepted. The tourism promotion of the Republic of Croatia is based on strategic and marketing plans and in cooperation with the HTZ, regional and local tourist communities under the circumstances of the pandemic, promotion must be targeted in line with the opportunities and needs of the broadcasting markets. The planned promotion will adapt to new circumstances, in particular digital media, therefore no increase in funding in this item is necessary. The A761016 administration and the management of funds amounting to 46 million 62 000 and 916 kuna are planned for the payment of the material rights of civil servants and tenants, the payment of salaries and other expenditure for employees and for the costs of cold running, and all for the purpose of the smooth conduct of business processes related to the specified activity. As a result of all of the above, we are unable to further reduce the planned resources to avoid short-term material rights that are legally defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15652	In the name of the club, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15653	Thank you. Dear Vice-President Reiner, since Vice-President Sanader has done nothing about the fact that no ruling majority representatives are present in the assembly while discussing the budget and amendments to the Republic's budget, I call on you as a more experienced and responsible politician to do something about it. So, this is a complete shame that 300 amendments to the opposition where we have made amendments to all Croatian areas, for all groups of Croatian citizens from Prevlaka to Ilock, for our socially endangered citizens, for children with special needs, for children without adequate parental care, and here is an amendment concerning tourism, that Dubrovnik is rich, much richer than the rest of Croatia, but no city is so affected by this epidemic as Dubrovnik. Thus, financial indicators are such that the city of Dubrovnik 2020 will end up at below 15% of physical indicators and below 10% of financial indicators compared to the financial indicators of 2019. The funds that are being reallocated here would be available to Dubrovnik through the HTZ system of future Ministry of Tourism and Sports and the Croatian Tourist Board will each year conclude a co-financing contract for tourism promotion of the Republic of Croatia if they define the dynamics of payment of funds according to the HTZ and the purposes of the funds in question, all in accordance with the annual programme and the work of HTZ. So, because of the influence of this pandemic, we ask that this be taken into account, and here I call on HDZ representatives who are not present, there is Juro Martinovic, he is also from the government, there is not a single representative here and therefore I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15654	Thank you, thank you very much. Uh, about what you said, you know as well as I do, that I can't get any MPs to be here or not be here like I can't get the other 69 MPs who should be here, so there aren't any, there's only eight of you. That way I can't get anyone else to do it, right? We are going to the 204th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15655	The amendment is not accepted. Given the new activity in the budget of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, the planned funds will be sufficient to carry out all planned actions on sport promotion activities and there is no need for additional increases. The Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, in its budget proposal for 2021 and with projections for 2022 and 2023, planned funds based on the real needs for the funds provided by the smooth work of the body. The reduction of expenditure would prevent the execution of commitments undertaken and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15656	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15657	This is an amendment that I personally gave as a representative where I proposed the allocation of 3 million kuna for sports infrastructure, for reconstruction and repair of football i.e. an auxiliary football field in Sinj where children train with the stadium of the Football Club Junak which is 105 years old, 1916 was founded, however absolutely except that the Croatian Football Federation and its president Kustic come down to watch sometimes when the Junak entered the second league, however, there was a picture, said two words, but the valley has no di train. To see what these playgrounds are like where kids train, there's no pot t, that's catastrophic. So with small investments, and great potential, that's what I'm telling you here, distinguished secretary of state, you're with Kliss, I think we've got a son's lap that you've already been pushing to be already this project since you've been from that position very significant that this fertate is finally back in '62. when it is closed to work, however I am telling you the state secretaries here in front of an empty arena of democracy in the Croatian Parliament made by the government and the parliamentary majority, the mockery of democracy, see how to discuss the most important document, the most significant, and here I am looking for one of the oldest clubs in the post-Hyduk area. Let us once again give these children the opportunity to train, play, develop and create new potential both in sport and, of course, in health. Do not forget Sinj and the Cetina province and just come painting in the Alka and Great Lady protocols.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15658	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15659	I'm asking for a vote, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15660	205th Club of Representatives, Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15661	The amendment is not accepted. The project Croatia swims out of activities to encourage local sport and sports competitions. The funds for its implementation will be provided by means of a regulation on criteria for the identification of users and the distribution of part of the gambling income for 2021. Ensuring gambling funds has already significantly increased non-ply training and no additional increases are needed. The planned funds for the activities of the administration and management of the Ministry of Justice and Administration are necessary for the financing of the regular business of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15662	On behalf of the club of MPs, honourable representative Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15663	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, I know that you are here, free to say no one asked you anything, but they pushed you into the fire to defend the amendments, this why you accept them, why you don't accept them, and I understand that. But what I don't understand is that whoever told you that this amendment would be rejected is essentially in some category, I don't know, something that's impossible, and that's one form of suicide from an ambush. So, there was a nation that threatened, we have children who due to improper diets because schools as such, nor the ministry as such offers this healthy diet but some used fruit, this come at risk of developing various diseases, including diabetes. On the other hand, the Law on Education and Education clearly defines that a student within primary school education should undergo swimming training, which is definitely not a practice. I claim that more than 30% of primary school students still don't know how to swim after leaving primary school, partly because there is no infrastructure in terms of pools that are truly expensive to build and maintain. For that reason, however, some logical, logical conclusion would be an excuse to raise this amount here. On the other hand, it's embarrassing that none of the rulings are here, and we're all paid to do the job, I don't know the soul, and my heart is beating when I look at these people from the assembly without working hours for much lower pay, so I'm not too pathetic to ask for a vote on this amendment, and here I hope that when my colleagues show up, they will support this very important and important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15664	The 206th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15665	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal does not specify which activities within the sport development programme it wants to increase expenditure. The funding on the sport development programme is sufficient to carry out all planned activities within the programme, and no increase is necessary. The Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration is also in its budget proposal for 2021. and projections for 2022 and 2023. plan funds based on real needs for resources to ensure the smooth work of the body. The reduction of expenditure would prevent the execution of commitments undertaken and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15666	On behalf of the club, a respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15667	So you refused this amendment as well. So, from Prevlaka to Ilock there is no place in Croatia for which we have not given the amendment. You refused everything. Here again Dubrovnik is one of the few tourist centers in Croatia and one of the few major cities that has no athletic trail. To make the shame even bigger, one-third of the track was built, so many Dubrovnik athletes, athletes, recreationals, risk injuries due to a reasonable background. This trophy Dubrovnik sport deserves appropriate working conditions, so this amendment requires 1.5 million kuna to complete the construction of the athletic path, but here it is not only the responsibility of the government, but of the mayor Frankovic, Mayor Nikola Dobroslavic and all those responsible for the city that has such a budget, a county that has huge resources, meaning that it does not have a built track. So it's not just your responsibility to refuse this amendment, but also yours down at a place in Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. It's a shame you didn't accept any amendments. Well, there was an amendment earlier, and we asked for 300,000 kunas for children with special needs without proper parental care so that I could go on vacation. And you refused. And you refused. Not a single amendment. And there's no one here in the assembly all day and Vice President Reiner says it's okay, so he can't do anybody, so call Club President Branko Bačić. Call him to call three MPs here at least to sit down. You tell us from the opposition 8, there's only us at Club Most 8 but you don't let us sit. We're not allowed to sit down because of epidemiological measures, and they're not here. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15668	Are you looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15669	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15670	The 207th Amendment of the Club of Independent Lists, which is identical to the 205th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15671	The amendment is not accepted. The Croatian swimming project is isolated from the activities of promoting local sport and sports competitions, the funds for its implementation will be provided by the Regulation on criteria for the identification of users and how to distribute part of the gambling revenues for 2021. Ensuring gambling funds has already significantly increased non-ply training, and additional increases are not needed. The planned funds to the administration's activities and management of the Ministry of Justice and Administration are necessary to finance the regular business of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15672	On behalf of the counseling club, someone's answering? He's not answering? Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15673	This is the President-in-Office. This, for this reason, we have actually asked for two similar amendments. So, sport in general, especially swimming is particularly important for not only such physical development, motor development of the child but also for the psyche itself, I guess this is clear to everyone. So, I don't know if you're aware that by refusing this amendment, you're sticking one form of coffin, one form of nail into a coffin to develop children at that age that's most sensitive and actually at that age that has the greatest effect for later psychophysical development. And it's a shame that on Wednesday, when the vote is full of councils, and today all day I think it was just Grozdana Peric, I've been walking around for 4 minutes and 29 seconds. So, it's embarrassing to argue about anything, and apart from being embarrassing and one form of showing and disrespect, and not even to us, we're not so vain that we'd enjoy someone listening to how unfair it is to those people who sent us here in this whole story and to those people who are creating this country and to those people who give money to that budget so that we here are slowly in warm, dry sitting, but somehow we're not able to do that either. So, I'm disappointed that given the standards often the Ministry of Education boasts and busses that one such amendment, one very important amendment and this one that had been tied to a very similar thing has been rejected, so I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15674	The 208th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja, which is identical to the 204th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15675	The amendment is not accepted. Given the new activity in the budget of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, the planned funds will be sufficient to carry out all planned actions on sport promotion activities and there is no need for additional increases. In its budget proposal for 2021 and the 2022 and 2023 projections, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, planned funds based on realistic statement needs for funds to ensure the smooth work of the body, the reduction of expenditure would prevent the execution of commitments undertaken and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15676	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15677	Because of the difficult situation, the virus's corona suffered the most from the economy, and of course also sports workers and sports. Here we give you amendments that could help sports clubs, and I call you once again to help if many won't be able to compete. We have problems from Dubrovnik to Savudrija to Vukovar, Ilock where numerous football clubs, mainly not numerous sports clubs, are mainly where children train will not be able to be held, and of course they will not be able to maintain financially. So I gave this amendment. And when we talk about sports then I look at the Sinj swimming pool that was the first in this area and the wider one, which is the Olympic dimensions and I am giving you the amendment to cover that base by letting those children who live in the Cetino region in Dugopolje and even in Klis of your secretary of state come to meet that obligation that every elementary school boy can swim, to allow a child to use food in this way you absolutely do nothing. We've proposed a number of amendments to protect the sporting events that matter if you've taken over the sport. It's not enough just for the CNS to sit in the solemn lodges, punish fans, and they toast with the most expensive wines, champagne, alcoholic drinks, and punish fans. Once again, I am giving you amendments to save sport in this crown crisis to keep clubs in their competitions as much as possible, and above all because of the infrastructure for our children. So I'm asking you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15678	The 209th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15679	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the financing and construction of new and construction operations on existing sports buildings as well as the equipment of the same equipment are planned in the proposal for a state budget on a capital project co-finance the construction of construction procedures on sport infrastructure and are granted through a public call to units of local, regional (regional) self-government. In its budget proposal for 2021 and the 2022 and 2023 projections, the Ministry of Finance Tax Administration planned funds based on realisticised needs for funds to ensure the smooth work of the body, reducing expenditure would prevent the execution of commitments undertaken and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15680	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15681	Here we are in front of an empty hall and there is no Mrs. Juričev who was also mayor of Vodice, here we are talking about numerous areas, but the only city that has absolutely no sports hall is Vodice. You know how many praises here were sang by Mrs. Juričev who was before the parliamentary representative was mayor, so here I have made an amendment to put in the draft budget a point for building a hall in Vodice, to increase that income to 15 million kuna and that every city in the Republic at least has its own hall. It saddens me to see you reject these amendments in my Sinj, and now in Vodice, and elsewhere. Which is why you're doing this, I don't know why, but I can see wherever you've managed to absolutely do nothing except that mayor that you've rewarded that side in the council benches. You've easily rewarded yourself with that, but they're not here now when they're discussing their ends. The former mayor of Vodice is not here, she is a parliamentary representative and no one from that constituency where I come from, and that is the largest electoral unit, that is half of Split-Dalmatia, Ličko-Senjska, Zadar, Sibenik-Knin County has no one in the assembly of the majority. There's no Mrs. Shiprage from the SDSS, she's gone, she's moaning here, she's moaning, and then she's the mayor's fault for all this stuff that doesn't have a hall, that we don't have a hospital that's all destroyed. She, the coalition partner of the SDSS and the dole rulers Duic and Spider who destroyed everything. So in my county, Sanader and Boban destroyed everything down there, all of it, and in particular, here's the sport, and mostly the founders of these sports halls are the county. I don't care, I hate, that's why I'm proposing this amendment and I hope you'll accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15682	210th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15683	The amendment is not accepted. These funds are sufficient for activities planned to promote the security of HGSS tourists and there is no need to increase. In its 2012 draft budget and the 2022 and 2023 projections, the State Inspectorate planned funds based on realistic needs to ensure the smooth work of the inspectorate. The reduction of funds would prevent the regular implementation of contractual commitments and regular operations and would suggest that amendments be rejected for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15684	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15685	The importance of tourism is safety, when we promote safety through Croatia's mountain service, then we invite tourists to come safely, not only to our Adriatic but also to mountain areas, however, by rejecting the amendments you do not hold to the Croatian Mountain Service, of course that people will not say it publicly and loudly, but I know that this is the case. There are people who save people's lives in very difficult, unaccessible areas, mostly dinar areas, Biokova, Zabikovlje, Velebit and that area, you absolutely don't care about that. It's important to you that you came down from Cliss, that you've put your clothes on, that you're appointed, under these lights, what you said, you reject all the amendments, but that's not good. Croatia's mountain service deserves much more. HGS for one life saved, not this proposal that I have made is a minimum of what should be done for those people who, I repeat, are sending a message of our tourists' safety to the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia mainly in non-accessible parts. And many lives were saved, and they sent a message to tourists in other countries where they came from that Croatia is safe. In this way you are mocking people who risk their lives, who should fix their equipment, have the highest quality, best, safest equipment in any threat and intervention in areas where you can't access. Therefore, I find it unreasonable, once again, why you who run the tourist resort of tourism reject amendments, the biggest promoters of tourism, those who care about the safety of tourists, the Committee for Tourists, that is HGS. This way I thank them, and you fellow MPs to support, and those who are not here should be ashamed of them. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15686	211th Amendment, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15687	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Tourism and Sports does not accept the proposed amendment for the reason that the project is implemented in cooperation with several partners participating in the implementation with pre-planned material and technical means. That amount shall be sufficient for the implementation of that project. At the position of administrations and management, a group of expenditure 323, expenditure on services, funds for telecommunications and municipal services, cleaning services, direct costs for the use of air transport services, directorates for the use of official aircraft, and funds for the maintenance of the Bane Court building, or funds for the necessary costs for the smooth operation of the body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15688	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, we've heard more than once every time it comes to sports prevention or prevention in general that the funds provided are enough, that is more, to be implemented in cooperation with several institutions or ministries, etc., etc. However, what is evident is that no increase has been accepted. So I'm going to do it one last time. One kuna invested in prevention, 5 kuna was saved in recovery. I think that, and I found most of the points through which these or similar related programs are financed to end up with some amount of 6 million kuna, if that is all, means in Croatia what is invested in such projects, it is more than insufficient. I also tried here to be objective, not to ask for too many amounts, another 2 million kuna would also be a symbolic amount and therefore I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15690	Now we'll move on to the Department of Health. Dear Secretary of State Tomislav Dulibic, Amendment 212, IDS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted since the emergency aid... a health institution in the jurisdiction of local self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the founder's duty to ensure appropriate public service standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15692	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15693	Thank you for your response. Here, this is another amendment from the most touristic Croatian region, Istria, specifically from the city of Poreč where additional financing of emergency assistance is needed as a result of maintenance of standards that we must have in order to increase the number of inhabitants, but also because of the tourist results achieved year after year. Poreč along with surrounding municipalities accounts for 10% of Croatian Tutism, close to 10 million overnight stays are reached on only 70km of coast. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15694	213th Amendment, IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15695	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15696	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15697	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15698	Thank you, and I apologize, you are very much like my colleague Lerotić and my colleague Troscott, and you are sitting elsewhere, so I was confused. Excuse me. 214th Amendment, IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15699	The amendment is not accepted. HZZO is an out-of- budget user of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. The funds for investment and ongoing maintenance of HZZ-owned buildings are planned under their financial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15700	On behalf of the club, respected representative Nemet or respected representative Demetlika. Nemet, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15701	Here, just, thanks for the answer. This is another amendment from the city of Poreč. So the building is owned by the state, it's necessary to reconstruct the building and install the elevator, the building except HZZO uses HZMO, so the co-operation of state institutions is necessary. I'm asking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15702	215th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15703	The amendment is not accepted. Since the said establishment of Istrian health homes of Pazin is not located in the assisted area and this is not about the need for the resolution of the consequences of the elemental disaster or other disaster, it is expected that the county can provide the funds required for the Istrian health homes, the Pazin Exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15704	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15705	Thank you. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. The funds allocated in the budgets of local self-government units are unfortunately not enough to complete the project and 15 million kuna is necessary for insurance. For this reason, state aid has been requested as a partner in this project. I'm asking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15706	216th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15707	The amendment is not accepted, the same explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15708	Dear Representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15709	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The government, unfortunately, rather than offering a reform budget and accessing problems as we keep listening to the prime minister promise to co-operate between local and state levels. The answer is that it's a county founder and take a picture. In 2000, when you transferred as a state it would be functional decentralisation but unfortunately fiscal decentralisation until today we have not experienced it and this is one example where we are looking for the House of Health Lino Peršić, who was one of the best homes of health, and we all know that health care is just moving, if we want quality from primary health care. And in this case, the local self-government, together with the Istrian County, has invested in the construction of the stationery, restored and reconstructed the complete dialysis department, co-financed the Emergency Aid because the amendments to the law you wanted us to abolish emergency medical assistance teams by co-financing local self-government, surrounding municipalities and the city, are working today. You promise to rebuild all public buildings, renovate energy especially with EU money, and that is the same building that belongs to the group. However, there is no hearing from the state that it is precisely for projects like this where the local community together with the county prepares all technical documentation, we are looking for co-financing but it is the easiest thing to refuse, and the budget of the state should continue to grow, and we at the local site take pictures of how you want and help exactly those most needed is lagging behind. That's why I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15710	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15711	The amendment is not accepted. The funds in this budgetary position are planned for the urgent procurement of medicinal products that appear on the market and are not yet included in the list of HZZs, since it is exclusively about the temporary financing of the supply of the medicinal product for the period from the market to its inclusion on the list of HZZs. Under the estimated three-year plan, it is not necessary to ensure an increase in financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15712	As far as I can tell, there's no one from the club, so we're gonna have to vote on it. The 218th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15713	The amendment is not accepted. The Health Protection Act obliges founders to provide funds for investment and investment and ongoing maintenance of health institutions, premises, medical and non-medical equipment and means of transport and to inform health activities in accordance with the plan and programme of health care measures and.../incomprehensible/... healthcare services for health institutions whose founders are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15714	In the name of the club, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15715	So this is really more sad, depressing, all day here, the Most Club is responsible for doing its job. We have prepared 150 amendments that should be prepared, written, extracted as much as the project means worth, explained it, and each of our amendments means from Prevlaka to Ilock you have all refused. This is an amendment meaning for the Bjelovar-Biogorje County, in the state budget we are looking for 80 million kuna to complete the work at the General Hospital in Bjelovar, which would improve the level of health services in the Bjelovar-Bjelovar County and you are refusing to do so. Not a single amendment you were able to accept, not one, it meant greater financial volume, it was smaller than that 300,000 kuna where we were looking for children with special needs without parental care. You refused every amendment, and there's no one here all day in the assembly. And Vice President Reiner is not uncomfortable about any HDZ agent here while you insist on refusing amendments that go in favor of our citizens. So how are you acting, so how are you, Vice President Reiner? I won't blame you because you came here to say that the government refused the amendment, you have nothing to do with it, but Vice President Reiner as influential in HDZ that he can't call anyone here to come from HDZ MPs while they reject our amendments, that's unforgivable. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15716	My friend Grumo, you have no right to discuss with me, to tell me or anything, so I'm giving you a warning. ... Read your Rules of Procedure and you'll see why. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] 219th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15717	The amendment is not accepted. The Mandatory Health Insurance Act defines the rights, means of financing, and obligations of contract entities of the Ministry of Health, there is no legal option within its financial budget to plan allowances in the healthcare system except for the salaries of employees of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15718	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15719	A major professional contribution, especially under these conditions of shortage, improvisation, and the personal contribution of health and health care professionals who are their victimism and I must say that in this corona crisis during covid, they are fighting for patients in all hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. So I don't understand how you can come from the ministry as a doctor and say there's no place to do an increase in salaries for our employees. The amendment is in 200, health workers, 200 million kuna. This shows that this responsibility of your decision and of your headquarters that has otherwise led to this crown of crisis is in the way and model as we see it to be the mistrust of citizens. I urge you once again to add to the salaries of all healthcare professionals to vote for it, to accept if what is happening in the Republic of Croatia has fallen all on healthcare professionals. And once again, I express my enormous dissatisfaction. Your classic quote “I do not accept the amendment” in front of an empty arena of democracy in the Republic of Croatia that was hard to fight for democracy, that you have made it possible for business to have no parliamentary representatives so that no one will vote for which amendment, but I call on all the meetings, this, this, this supplement to health care professionals, the covid supplement of 200 million kuna to healthcare professionals and non-health workers in the health system is a minimum of what you in the Ministry of Health have to give them, otherwise I see that you are not the Ministry of Health but the Ministry of Health. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15720	220th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15721	The amendment is not accepted. In the proposal for a state budget for 2021, with projections for '22. and '23. For KBC Split, a total of 188 million kuna investment in construction and equipment has been secured, with only the funds from the Operational Competitiveness and Cohesion Programme amounting to 146 million kuna, including the purchase of diagnostic devices. Therefore, the request for additional funds of 10 million kuna in the form of amendments is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15722	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Representative Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15723	Here, except for the lack of KBC Split staff, the big problem is the lack of adequate equipment. We are witnessing that 500,000 people live in the Split swimming pool and that part belongs to a large part of the people from Herzegovina. I don't know why you treat KBC like this in Split, and we know that there are as many 7 hospitals available in Zagreb. The same number of people, a million people in Split, means 500,000 in a swimming pool without tourism and a Herzegovina one KBC, in Zagreb 7. Why do you hate Dalmatia so much that you don't give 10 million kuna to the Split KBC in, in, in, in the center of Dalmatia, in the largest second-largest city in Dalmatia, in the largest county, and we know that they come from other parts of the KBC? Once again, I will never leave again, you all leave, I have my amendments. Again, I ask you once again that KBC Split has been forgotten by you, forgotten by you. Why? This you will explain to you now the new choice is much more important to you, Sanader Anti, who is the president of the County Assembly, who is the president of this HDZ than to vote as vice president of the assembly and as a key man from that area for 10 million kuna, for diagnostics in KBC Split for which we have, 7 hospitals we have in Zagreb for the same number of people as in the Split area. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15724	The 221st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15725	The amendment is not accepted. KBC Split is currently in the process of obtaining documentation which should define the model of purchasing the financing of that infrastructure project. Therefore, the proposed increase in the budget amounting to 3 million kuna without the total value of the investment being known, the scope of the investment, as well as the supply and financing models of that project cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15726	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Honorable Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15727	The problem of parking spaces in KBC Split is one of the biggest problems, not even enough of this parking space for KBC employees in Split. So I think that this amendment of 3 million kuna, so I think it's amazing that you're so miserable, but what you promised in this area to improve on Firulah, this one improves traffic. parking, you're against it. So, you're against it at the beginning, and for the elections when you go down, you cruise around the Adriatic to take votes from those people who are your exclusive and simply electoral potential. And you're ashamed of this here without anyone from Split. Where are the parliamentary representatives from Split now? Where are the parliamentary representatives from Split now? From Split-Dalmatia County, from 9th Election Unit, part of Kaštel and this is where? Where are these painting people? Where's Ante Sanader? Where are those people? Where's Baco? Bačić, he sees her around Split quite in makeup, quite recognizable Split. Where are those people? So they voted last year against this amendment. Well, they could've figured it out, so they put this to work, not just fight for how they're holding a coalition with Kerum and how they're playing with concessions of maritime good. And that's why they don't have cheeks. And that is why you changed the vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament, you Rules of Procedure, in the last term, so that parliamentary deputies are not there and that the people listen when we say that you will vote because of this, the Rules of Procedure of fellow Members and colleagues has been amended. And this is more than embarrassing, more than embarrassing to the clinic hospital that doesn't have a parking lot you're not going to approve one minor amount. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15728	222nd Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15729	The amendment is not accepted. The General and Veteran Hospital "Croatian Pride" Knin in 2017 signed a functional integration contract with the General Hospital of Sibenik-Knin County. Further development of General and Veteran Hospital "Croatian Pride" Knin will comply with the goals of functional integration.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15730	In the name of the club, the respected representative Bulj, actually, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15731	Thank you very much. I gave this amendment to the clinic. for General Hospital and Veteran "Croatian Pride" 5 million kuna I am looking for this year. I asked for it last year, and you can't approve it. Which is why I don't know why in Knin where you paint 25.8. when we celebrate a magnificent victory, I am proud and mine is one of the happiest days of my life when in Operation Storm of Dinara from the direction of Glakova I saw the city of pride Knin where I worked for 13 years as a professional soldier officer. And you're just painting yourself for "Storm" and waving flags falsely misleading that people in that area. That's where the citizens and veterans of the Homeland War are being treated. They have swimming pools to make physical therapy and you won't make it happen year after year. You're moving to the county. You're transferring to county, so who's in county? The SDSS that pays the same. Here's Mrs. Shimpraga who's guilty of this. Spider, Dujic, who's to blame for this? So you insult the veterans. You insult the people who live here, regardless of all who live in Croatia, the people of the national minority who live in Knin. The only hospital in the Dalmatian area in the Croatian City of Knin called "Croatian Pride" General and Veteran Hospital. You're giving up on these people, which is why this town that was the youngest city in the long run is now out of young people at all. Everyone's moving out of the City of Knin. And what you'll come up to paint on the 25.8th again, wave your flags and hold your hands on your heart. You're ashamed if you don't accept this amendment. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15732	223rd Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15733	The amendment is not accepted. That amount of funding is sufficient for the implementation of activities relating to environmental factors that affect health in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15734	Be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15735	The government has committed itself to a multiple quality of health services and access to better quality protection at the primary level. Above all, in the areas of depressed areas and improving the working conditions for doctors and other healthcare professionals. In rural areas through investments in primary-level medical technical equipment. But you're absolutely doing nothing. This amendment is a day for medical and biochemical laboratories to work on the quality of processing and monitoring during the diseases of the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, which is your obligation to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We are witnessing the frequent closure of one laboratory or when they clog a little south and a storm on Hvar that upsets all residents because simply to perform a blood check they must send it to ships to Split or from Makarska must send it to Kaštel. Hundreds of kilometers is Makarska tourist resort a recognizable place, has no lab. Following this, I proposed 4 million kunas to provide two laboratories in the Split-Dalmatia County area in health homes of Split-Dalmatia County and in outposts because since the Split-Dalmatia County has taken over the homes of health,... 13 in a unique home of health health care services literally do not exist. [[You don't understand.]] Hey, guys, in Makarska, people are taking blood and being sent to them and other people are in Kaštel. From Hvar when they clog south they can't sail towards Split, they can't be examined, they get nazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15736	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15737	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15738	224th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15739	The amendment is not accepted. The General Hospital of Zadar is an acute county hospital, which is covered by the national plan for the development of clinical hospital centres of clinical hospitals, clinics and general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the implementation of further investments will be brought into line with that plan document and that amendment will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15740	Be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15741	I hope they hear this, Zadrani. The neonatology department takes care of newborns from birth to leave all children unable to care for in the section in Zadar are transported to Split. A significant number of pregnant women are more likely to end up in neonatology stalemates, twins, etc. They were sent weeks ago to Split. I consider it necessary to provide for Zadar's neonatology of this money, this amount in order to reduce the overload of, above all, the Split hospitals gravitating normally 4 counties in order to ensure that births from the Zadar County area are not forced... Hundreds of kilometers in Split or Zagreb. [[You don't understand.]] And that's what Dalmatia deserves minimally. Dalmatia has a million inhabitants. You don't care about that part. You don't care about Lika, you don't feel the need at all, the earthquake has caused great damage in Zagreb, but you are greater damage and you are more threatened by these two-thirds of Croatia, according to my Dalmatia and Lica, so you do not accept a quite reasonable amendment that pregnant women do not go hundreds of miles and do not create pressures on other hospitals and this Zadar city in the center of the Adriatic. The only thing they do is deal well with Luke Gazenica of the Zadar Authority, that Kalmeta well formed his own, that's where the money is cut, where he did a good job with the Turks. And as for life and people in this case pregnant women and women and the minor pressure on the Split hospital that is already burdened and that these people, these pregnant women, for hundreds of miles, you don't want to accept this amendment. I therefore demand a vote, embarrassingly, embarrassingly towards Dalmatia, the person and that part of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15742	The 225th Amendment of Representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15743	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The financing amounting to €300 million for the Civil Protection System Helicopter Support project is secured within the Competitiveness and Cohesion operational programme of which the MUP is an acceptable notifier. The implementation of this project includes HGSS and the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15744	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15745	Thank you. With this amendment, we are looking for funds for emergency helicopter medical assistance that would be independent of using small, strictly dedicated helicopters that can be brought down as close as possible to the unhappy 24 hours of 365 days a year. We have 22,000 deaths from cardiovascular diseases, meaning stroke, heart attack, nearly 300 deaths in traffic, about 3,000 deaths, a golden watch is what would be achieved in this way and we know that by this rapid transport to the hospital is a higher percentage and survival of the injured and that much cheaper treatment costing the health care system if the injured come in that golden hour. 63.5 million kuna would cost this kind of emergency helicopter medical attention that should have at least five strictly designed helicopters for this job. Let's remember that a few years ago, the government spent over 60 million kunas on cell phones, so one year's phones are almost emergency helicopter medical attention. It is sad that after 30 years of existence, Croatia has not yet developed this way of emergency medical assistance. We know that in Germany, an ADAC autoclub has its own emergency helicopter medical care, but unfortunately our country is not ready to separate 63 million kunas for this kind of assistance that would save many of our citizens' lives whose treatment would be better, it would take longer and we would have because of the tourist season and the specific needs of the Republic of Croatia safe emergency helicopter medical care. Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15746	226. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15747	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Health has no legal option within its financial plan to plan allowances in the health care system except for the salaries of ministry employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15748	On behalf of the club, respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15749	Well, I'm not surprised that the ministry might not have been willing to find any other way, since the recent minister of health felt that one priest was worth more than 20 doctors, so here I hope that in our hospitals we won't need tomorrow, the day after tomorrow 20 priests, since we have exhausted our capacities in health care, especially medical staff and doctors and minimums here have already tried to show that we too care for those who care about us and find some opportunity to make up for them already hours that they haven't been paid. And additionally, if you look at where the funds could be redeployed, so it didn't occur to anyone that in three ministries including the Ministry of Health we have something called spiritual care, that these priests, unlike doctors who weren't paid for their jobs, were paid twice because they were paid under the Vatican Agreements, and then the Ministry of Health, and that should be their call as they used to be to go to the sick. We think it's really time for at least some of the amendments the opposition proposes to adopt. We're looking for a vote of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15750	The 227th amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15751	The amendment is not accepted. The means of supporting the provision of health care to applicants for international protection are sufficient for the implementation of that support.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15752	Representative Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15753	Here I must say that I am very glad that the amendment has come to order because the goal is to take one of the completely unnecessary activities and give to those who need immigrants, but without having to confirm their religion, which is the content of one of the rarely accepted amendments of that Mariana Petir who has been persecuted and avoided, even gave them 1.5 million kuna, but only for those who are Christians. That amendment does not seem too Christian to me. And as for the one where we would take from the Workers' Front, we would take the money because at the time of the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, when some funds are reduced for some of the key activities that provide the basic needs of some social groups, we find it inadmissible to introduce new items of the budget that exclusively serve historical revisionism. So this item of the budget refers to the introduction of a whole new item into the budget, marking the memory of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, which in practice represents an attempt to make the working anti-fascist movement equal to the fascist and Nazi regime. In this context, communism is generally condemned as a result of other totalitarianisms and authoritarian regimes, in fact, Nazism and fascism serve exclusively as a tower in the service of equating these ideas. This is also seen in marking the last example of the European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes that took place several months ago. On this occasion, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic honored the victims of the communist regime on the Gol Island with a saying mentioning communism only as one of the totalitarian systems that marked the history of the 20th century, but also Croatian and Croatian peoples. So a completely unnecessary item equating a socialist idea with a fascist and Nazi that doesn't stand at all We'll ask for a vote of course. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15754	A fellow Grumo has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I thought we were done with it, but I'm afraid we haven't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15755	We're not done because he has to react. Therefore, the Day of Remembrance to victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes and is marked and you should react as vice president of the Croatian Assembly on the basis of the European Declaration of Remembrance to victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, is marked with a memory of a pact concluded between the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany meaning Ribbentro-Molotov. So it's quite clear that it's two totalitarian regimes which are exactly the same. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15756	Um, thank you very much, of course, that we all know about the Declaration of the European Council and, finally, for the Declaration of this Croatian Parliament which has brought about this declaration, I do not consider it necessary to discuss it at all. This is because this Croatian Parliament has made it very clear. Therefore, it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure that anyone thinks otherwise, and this I beg you, let us not go now with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure again. No, I'll give you, I'll give you a word of course when you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I can also give you a warning if I consider you abuse that institution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15757	The breach of Rule 238 of the Rules of Procedure has again been brought about by a series of lies, meaning when you call for a European Parliament's resolution, you should know that this European Parliament resolution refers to Stalinist totalitarianism and that it does not, by any means, refer to Yugoslav socialism or time, or to the space you speak of when you speak of the marking of these totalitarian, authoritarian systems. So you're completely misrepresenting a resolution that is both wrong and incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15758	Thank you very much, you get a warning because, because you abuse, abuse the institution of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you nicely not to do that. Please don't do this. Now I'm telling you again, that's your second warning, and then the next one is taking away the word. I draw your attention to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15761	The amendment is not accepted. It is, in effect, an amendment that would transfer a million kuna from the IRS to the subject of support for witnesses and victims of criminal offences. We believe that the amendment should not be accepted for the reason that the witness support and victims of criminal offences are being planned just as much as necessary to achieve their legal obligations. On the other hand The Ministry of Finance planned funds for the Tax Administration at the necessary amount and by transferring from the IRS to the victim and witness items would question the functions of the IRS. [[Intruder: On behalf of the club of representatives, and excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15762	Dear Representative Miletic on behalf of the club, right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15763	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Reiner, Secretary of State, first I must truly express great grief to the Croatian public, I know that it may be hard to come to this honorary home and all day here to say everything that needs to be said and fight for everything that needs to be fought for, but it is unfortunate that there is not one single HDZ parliamentary representative of the ruling coalition all day, that here is a colleague from the Homeland Movement, colleagues from the green-left coalition, from the green-left block, are also there all day and one colleague from the SDP, and it is regrettable that we are discussing such an important topic of budget and so many important topics in which we should speak, and the Croatian public should hear us. No wonder you refused this amendment if we know that the 2019 perception index showed that Croatia is lagging behind in the fight against corruption. A Greek has passed us. Besides us, Romania, Hungary and Bulgaria are worse. It's a pity we meet when we talk about corruption in such a society. And now that we should develop and strengthen civil society, now that we should encourage the funding of civil society organisations involved in the support and cooperation programme for victims and witnesses of crime, now that we should help victims and witnesses, show them emotional, practical support, technical, practical information and information on rights there is no money for these people, there is no money for those citizens. And I'd say we could let them sing, that the state protects them, so you'd see what would only come out of the carpet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15764	You're asking for a vote, I presume?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15765	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15766	229th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15767	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the free legal assistance activities are planned on the basis of an activity plan for 2021 and are sufficient to achieve it. On the other hand, the transfer of funds from the tax administration would call into question the functioning and operation of the tax administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15768	On behalf of the club, the respected representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15769	Thank you, Chairman, so here I am, again to express my dissatisfaction with this morning of 8.10, we've been here all day, trying to earn and do and say, after all, and fight for those who sent us here, and on the other hand, the left side all day long, the right half-empty from my point of view, on your part vice versa. So I also believe that you, vice president of HS, are just as much like the president of HS, as all the other vice presidents should have here, influenced, if you've watched, you've actually seen that there's no one here all day. It is sad in this situation, this is Croatia and its Parliament sad. As for the amendment, last year this item in the RH budget was about 3 million and 700,000 kuna, I think. So, not nearly enough and sufficient figure to actually provide quality legal assistance to all people who are not employed, to all people who are minimal and not to count, in fact, about 60% of Croatia. So Croatia has stopped being a country of equal opportunities for all, the judiciary and the defence of the same, in fact it has long remained in the hands of the rich. For this reason, the Independent Lists Bridge has requested by raising this amount, and we are saddened, which is, again, an amendment that you will refuse as ruling, but the Croatian people chose this and the Croatian people what they chose and chose and received, so they are pleased, and we are asking for a vote under this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15770	Now we're going to move on to the Attorney General's Office, Honorable Secretary of State Stipe County. Amendment 230, Adviser's Club of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15771	The amendment is not accepted. Under the activities of the national and preventive mechanism, funds are planned for regular visits and monitoring of bodies and institutions and for strengthening the protection of human rights of persons deprived of torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating procedures or penalties and the planned funds are sufficient to carry out all planned tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15772	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15773	Thank you. It is a shame that the high officials of this House, the senior HDZ officials, do not react to this shame here that we can testify that no HDZ agent is present until the amendments to the budget are discussed. This is so far an unprecedented shame and to make things worse, you have refused as representatives of the government, and here you are now this amendment that goes towards protection means the applicant of irregularities, so on. The whistle. What happens in Croatia to those who report corruption or corruption? Usually they get hurt, not the ones that get reported. We have witnessed such cases, and now that we are asking you to provide additional resources to ensure that people who dare to report some kind of irregularity, have appropriate protection and accessible service, from the bodies to whom this duty is entrusted by law, you and such amendments refuse. You've all turned down here today without any shame, I guess that's why the ruling majority didn't show up because maybe they're ashamed that you turned down here over 150 of our amendments and 300 amendments to the opposition. Is that why there's no one here? This is a shame that an amendment that goes towards protecting applicants of irregularities, whistles, that you reject such amendments. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15774	We're moving on to the children's defender, Amendment 231, Green-left bloc advocates' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15775	The amendment is not accepted. The Ombudsman's financial plan for children in 2021 compared to the existing 2020 plan is up by 8.1%. Those appropriations shall ensure the smooth financing of the regular programme of protection, monitoring and promotion of children's rights and shall have no need to provide additional financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15776	On behalf of the Bloc, the esteemed representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15777	So also the Ombudsman for children in her reports, as well as in the talks on the committee on which Boric also warned of the lack of funds, especially those which would now be specifically intended to help children and their parents in dealing with the problems caused by the Covid crisis. As you know, many experts and medical staff warn about the consequences for the mental health of children and young people because of the situation in which we are and for this very reason is expected, of course, to increase certain negative incident situations in terms of and peer violence, etc., in which the Ombudsman is actually one of the few institutions that can and has some tools for reaction. So since you refused to even give us an amendment that we wanted to improve the situation of actually school and education in the fight against peer violence, we would ask you to at least look at this amendment to make up for that minus. So all of the amendments that we have largely been part of the amendments were aimed at improving the quality of life of children and reducing the negative impact of poverty on children. You have rejected them in all order and in a way that none of the HDZ deputies have sat here and could even blush on what this government, their government refuses because this is what our government would never refuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15778	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15779	Yeah, we're asking to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15780	We're going to the Attorney General for Gender Equality, Amendment 232, Green-Left Bloc Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15781	The amendment is not accepted. The prosecutor's funding plan for gender equality was reduced in 2021 compared to 2020 only because of the reduction of planned EU aid. The source of funding, general income and receipts was increased by the state budget proposal from 3 526 740 kuna to 3 809 038 kuna. The planned funds are sufficient to carry out all planned tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15782	On behalf of the Blok, respected representative Boric. [[I'm afraid...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15783	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I'm a little speeding up. Here, of all amendments, only four were related to gender equality, two related to victims of violence, and here is the Attorney General, you didn't exactly report it. In fact, the funds were reduced since it was rare for the Attorney General to provide only various projects and funds for himself, so they were not even returned to the initial position, but precisely because the projects had been completed, so of course they no longer needed new persons in the Office. What we think is more than rude is that all the defenses, we'll see that in the next one, that their assets are actually reduced. That this, this government does not correspond with the attorneys, the institutions that work independently, institutions that should defend human rights or defend the most reprehensible ones, so that, to me and my colleagues, it is very regrettable that there are no other colleagues here. What message are you sending? Some colleagues are more experienced and in writing the amendments, some of the recruits have made an effort to advance this budget, if your colleagues were here, they might have learned something from us. Perhaps for the next budget they would prepare these amendments and fix your budget so we shouldn't write such amendments. They could have learned, and that would have been very good for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15784	Are you asking for a vote? We're going to the Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities, Amendment 233 of the amendment, Club of Green-Left Block Representatives. [[Intruder: Of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15785	The amendment is not accepted. The Attorney General’s Office for Persons with Disabilities plans to set up and launch work in Rijeka’s Regional Office during 2021 and to ensure accessibility and quality of service for persons with disabilities for the areas of Primorje-goranska, Istria and Ličko-Senj County. The necessary resources have been provided for that purpose and are an integral part of the budget proposal for 2021.There is therefore no need to provide additional financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15786	On behalf of the Bloc, the esteemed representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15787	I'll say in the end that since this is our last amendment, that of course your answer is expected, but you haven't, like us, had the opportunity here to listen to the very shocking presentation of the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities when she was talking about lifting the rights of persons with disabilities, and especially their difficult situation right now at the time of the Covid crisis and you say, in the coming year when it will be necessary to continue to resolve the consequences of this crisis, you don't want to approve an increase for that item. But I'm going to say now and in the end, what is all HDZ refused? You refused to bring in free meals for children at last. You refused to introduce a school diet with green public procurement and opening the market for local OPGs. You refused to leave the culture at least at the level it was in 2019, not to mention the increase. You refused all investments in children and the education system. You refused to re-introduce civil education and education as an object that is not intrinsic, but as a separate object that would enable them to acquire civic and democratic competences for our children, you are proud to write the same thing that you will do or have already done in your strategic documents that you send to Brussels. You also refused to raise funds intended for the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb. It's part of the funds you've allocated for the reconstruction of the private housing fund at the level of 100 housing units. If we are to restore the city of Zagreb at such a pace, we have calculated it, we will restore it exactly in 200 years, we only hope that everyone here, in 200 years, that HDZ will not be and that history will also not mention it, at least not in a positive context. Thank you. And of course, we're staying on the amendment and we're asking to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15788	We are now going to propose a financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2021 and a projection of the 2022 and 2023 plans, State Secretary, respected Natasha Mikush Zigman. Here you go. First amendment to the Independent List Bridges Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a new sewerage network on the island of Rab. The EU prepares a project for the agglomeration of Rab-Sugarska Draga-Lopar, total estimated value of an indicative of 470 million kuna, which includes the construction and reconstruction of a 75km sewerage network with 23 pump stations, 3 wastewater treatment plants, and the construction and reconstruction of 45 km of water supply pipelines including the new water supply pipeline of land-Sitnica-island-island Rab 2.2 km long.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15790	On behalf of the club of representatives, respected representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15791	Dear Vice President of HS, Mr. Reiner, the Honorable Secretary of State. I have to tell the Croatian public again. I am horrified, disappointed and sad and all in one, that this important subject of the budget, about the topic where we should take care of the Croatian people and all that best for our people, all day so far there is no HDZ, here, there is one colleague from the SDP, a colleague of Grmoj had to jump to the toilet and here, there is colleague Kujundzic and Miro Bulj with me in the assembly. It is very sad, it is irresponsible and it is not a good message sent to the Croatian public. The island of Rab is one of the most frequent tourist islands. However, it remains without a resolved basic infrastructure that would make tourism sustainable in the long term. The island of Rab has over 9,000 inhabitants. In the tourist season, the number triples. The pressure on municipal infrastructure is enormous and investment is needed. Investments in the sewerage-water system are announced year after year. There's no realisation. Reports of the municipal society are being produced, and the situation is becoming increasingly difficult. The people of Rab don't know what to do anymore. Do they have to go into protests, block everything? The plumbing's worn out. Water losses in the water system range around 35%, and over 60% of the island is not covered by a sewer network despite the enormous pressure of new construction. Every year several dozen new buildings appear on the island. New as well as existing facilities do not have the possibility of joining a sewer network that is modestly spread by main lines. Will the state, ruling on people living on the island of Rab or in local elections, know who they will trust?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15792	Are you asking for a vote? ... Of course, here I have to repeat that I can't influence how many MPs will be in the hall. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can't even influence that here there are only 75 opposition representatives just you 4 sitting in the hall and I can't affect it. Therefore, these are facts. Let's go to the next amendment, it's amendment number two to MP Ante Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15793	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction and reconstruction of Ljubicic's Bridge in Runovici. The bridge is located within the surrounding road in the municipality of Runović and it does not constitute a water building. The water and water buildings in the municipality of Runovic are regularly maintained in accordance with the needs and opportunities provided at the annual level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15794	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15795	Thank you, Your Honor. So, I don't know. I wonder first of all if any of those who are here today are not one form of shame. After all, if they don’t feel ashamed, I don’t know what another person can feel. So, people create and work to make laws for this same man in this country, so that we in this country create better quality and better living conditions, however, we are not. What I resent and agree that the vice-president is not guilty, but what I resent all day, for which reason no such debate and a declaration of amendments within which of the 41 parliamentary representatives in this room, I have been here these few days where no one is there, I don't know how meaningful it makes sense. But let's get back to the amendment. I say it again, I know, and I can't say anything to you, and I have no right to do that. However, both Runovici and my Imot region. I don't know if you've ever been or not. It's a sad ending believe it or not with a systematic indemnity. And the fact is, he's been choosing the HDZ for years. It's probably some kind of stockpile based on which no one feels the need to invest upstairs. This bridge here is a real danger to someone's life and the question is who will be responsible when evil happens. On the other hand, it is of strategic importance for residents of the region, given that the municipality of Runovic is the one that is closer to the border of the field than just the river Vrlika. I demand a vote on this amendment and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15796	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15797	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide water supplies in Lika-Senj County. Croatian waters through annual programmes together with water service suppliers in the Ličko-Senjska County are systematically investing in water supply projects. In the last four years, 42 million 785 thousand kuna have been invested.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15798	Be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15799	In Ličko-Senj County 23 settlements have no drinking water in the 21st century, and that is what Croatian waters do except charge taxes on the same inhabitants. You know that Ličko-Senj County is the least populated per km per population. I'm calling you again. Water supply is a key prerequisite in the 21st century for people to survive in this area, to deal with livestock, agriculture and all that should be done in this area. You say we invested. You didn't invest anything, but the people from there are paying us all together to provide them with living conditions in that area. However, Lika was sang, she was sang, she is the heart of Croatia and Liku needs, she is the spine of Croatia. She was also in the Homeland War that didn't break. Through Gospić they intend to break the spine on Senj, but the Lichans, the Dalmatians, the Rijekans, all who went there from all ends stopped it. But you break their backs with your policies. 23 settlements, partly or entirely, do not have water supply in Lika-Senj County and this is a frightening message. It's this demographic measure that would be necessary for people to have that child in their homes if they created it and brought it into the world to have water in their house, to have spinach. So once again I urge you to think carefully about your colleagues and colleagues, there are now four of us here and those who listen do not let us destroy our homeland. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15800	4th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15801	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide water supplies in Sibenik-Knin County. Croatian waters continuously invest in the development and improvement of public water supply systems in Sibenik-Knin County through the construction and reconstruction of water supply facilities and through the reduction programme. This completes the work on the resuscitation of the pressure line of the station Miljačka, the water supply system Raduka, and for the purposes of water supplying the settlement RAdučić in Ervenik Municipality. In the body are works on the construction of water supply in Tepluh-Bičić and in the City of Knin area, as well as the development of a conceptal solution of the water supply system Drniš and the water supply system Knin through the loss reduction programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15802	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15803	Thank you very much. We are talking about a very important problem in Sibenik-Knin County also 24 settlements in full and partly do not have drinking water in their settlements in their households. The basic human right is right to water. We have asked for and collected a petition, on this we will insist that water enter the Constitution as a basic human right, that area of Krško area rich in drinking waters, all that you have listed both Drinski and Kninski and Skradin, and the hinterland of Sibenik as a whole and Miljevacska plato is all an area rich in drinking waters, and people do not have water in their houses. And now it's sad that I'm standing here watching her come maybe the mayor of Drnis up here sits in the corner, sees someone from the MPs, here I'll take a walk so look what this is, and we're discussing the most important document. The most important document we discuss, we talk about water, people in the 21st century have no water supply. And now look at what this is, here are the citizens if you watch this, my people, my peoples, my peoples Dalmatia, the peoples of Sibenik-Kninska, Licko-Senjska, Split-Dalmatia, Zagorje, Slavonia, Rijeka, Istria, the Gorski Kotar of our like look when we talk about water supply from... one in your house while these people who run, who you vote for, who you vote for, see these benches anywhere, no one, the key document is being discussed, the amendment to the budget for 2021, means the key document of the Republic in the home of democracy, the largest home of democracy, is the only God above this. Look what this is. I'm asking for a vote, of course. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15804	5th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15805	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment also proposes to provide water supplies to Zadar County. Croatian waters continue to invest in the development and improvement of public water supply systems in Zadar County. Thus, work is under way to build water supply for the settlements Vukšić and Provic, construction works for the Kozlovac water supply site have been completed, and work is being prepared to build water supplies for the settlement of Islam Greece. Work is also under way to build water supplies in the Krušev area, in the Obrovec City and in the water supply of sub-lethal direction. The construction of water supply facilities in the Municipality of Povljana has been completed and the loss reduction programme is being implemented in the area of Zadar, Benkovac, Biograd na moru and Gračac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15806	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15807	Thank you very much. In Zadar County, 15 settlements are without water in these settlements or mostly entirely. As I said, water is a fundamental human right and we must first protect our waters, and Croatian waters are the ones that have to do so, and Croatia's waters and the Ministry of the Environment do not protect water. I'll talk about it later. And now I'd say it's sad if you don't accept this amendment, it's always the same story last year. I'm currently in benches where the ruling majority around me is nowhere to be found. Is this sad about the best budget, the most important document to speak of, and you are currently here in the assembly there is no one respected vice president about the main document in the home, the Croatian home where our citizens elected me here from Sinj, paying us all travel expenses and no one has Mayor Drnis, Vodice, from my 9th election nobody, from the 8th constituency of no one. A colleague is the only one there from the SDP, we Bridge colleagues are here because of the epidemiological measures in this issue,...the second one will come to defend the amendments. So once again when we talk about a key document, then this isn't a joke and we always say the same thing, we prepare the paperwork so every year, where is that paperwork, where you hide, how much money has gone. Do, trim our sleeves and bring water to these areas, in these areas we in Dalmatia, Liki must have water supply. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15808	6th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15809	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide water supplies for the settlements of Rude, Vostane and Rože according to priorities and possibilities will consider solving water supply of the settlements of Rože and Vostane, since the same mountain settlements are quite remote from the existing water supply systems. Part of the Rude settlement which is not connected to the public water supply system is located above the existing water storage system and will be solved according to the possibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15810	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15811	I can't believe this argument, we have Vostane in the City of Trilj area, it's an area where the cattle area where people dealt with cattle was densely populated and precisely because there was no water supply of people had gone from that area, like from Rog, part of Tijarica. That part when we talk about that part then we're talking about the Ruda island part, ora has a beautiful river with a hydrocentral having a fish farm that's been destroyed. They have a water container that feeds a large part of Split-Dalmatia County, and that part of the village of Ruda has no water supply, and it is powered by, they look at Rudo with their eyes in front of them, means the river, the stream of the Cetina River from where much of Split is fed, and they have no water supply in their place. It's a beautiful place, a beautiful place. There's springs, there's a nearby field. We have one end to wish for, that's the Cetino end, the noble and piety end known for a large number of people, the big one usually the biggest demographic was, our people were on that issue from those parts, now there's no one here. For what? That's why people don't have spinach in the 21st century, water in their house so they can take a bath, so they can drink a glass of water, so it's sad, so it's sad. It is in the Cetitian province, and I repeat again, I am the only representative from the territory of the Cetina region, 50,000 inhabitants, I am saddened and disappointed that when you come to this town of Knights when you come to Alka, the city of Our Lady of Sinjska, when you come here, you do absolutely nothing, but only people move out and I call on you to support this amendment for the water supply of that area of Ruda, Vostane, Thank you. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15812	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15813	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15814	7th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15815	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the water supply of the settlements of Blizna Gornja, Blizna Donja, Seget Gornji and Seget Donji, Ljubitovica and Prapatnica. Project documentation is under way, and a permit to build water supply facilities for Prgomet-Seget-Zagora. After obtaining building permits, it will take place in public procurement of works that will take place on stage. Realisation of the project under consideration will provide drinking water for settlements in the area of Zagorje part of Seget municipality, as well as settlements in the municipality of Prgomet which have so far had no public water supply resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15816	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15817	So this area means it bypasses right by the sea. I'm sorry that here and the chief of these areas which is also... I'm talking about a replacement in the assembly, and there's no one I'm thinking about in that area. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a trig area, a hinterland, which these areas have no fundamental human right, the right to drink water in their own villages, in their households, and it saddens me by your reasoning. Your arguments are unclear and always the same. And last year I gave a similar amendment to these places. Absolutely nothing moved. I believe something is going to be done this year in 2021, but mostly it's going to be setting up rock foundations, probably because the election year is local, so it's going to be a tributary for you. But that trogiric backdrop, and even the whole casteland was completely forgotten except for the part where Sanader made this former prime minister, and also the origin of Ante Sanader, even the exit for the villages off the highway, and unfortunately there are no people, they've put in a position that there's no one to ring, that there's no mail, there's no handcuffs on his nose, there's no one, everything's empty, there's no water supply, there's no basic human right. And in this area you want to endanger drinking water Regional waste disposal centre Lečevica where the pits associated with, peologists have proven, connected with all sources in the Dalmatian area. Many people, hard and hard people, and recognizable people who built at all levels in all social spheres in industry and economy were key and recognizable people. I don't have to count them now, but don't consider them Zagora, Dalmatia, Lika and that part of the south that it's not an area of the Republic of Croatia. So people don't have water supply in these settlements of Seget Gornji, Seget Donji, Ljubitovac, Prapatnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15818	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15819	Of course I'm looking. It's a shame we're even discussing this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15820	8th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15821	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the water supply of settlements in the area of the town of Sinja and the municipality of Muć na so-called. The Ogorian plateau. Project documentation of the water supply facilities of the Ogorsko-Zelovsko plato area is under way, and this is the overworked station and water supply system of Pribuda and Seline with the pre-accession route. After the construction of the project documentation and the establishment of building permits, they will be able to start building these facilities. The realisation of the facility in question will improve the existing water supply system, and will be supplied with drinking water settlements in the Ogorsko-Zelovsko plato area, which have so far not had a solution to public water supply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15822	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15823	The area of Ogorje, meaning the Muškoga part which is also the Pribude by returning the whole part that is without water supply. Otherwise, something brought in some kind of pipe, so Blaženko Boban, the mayor, was running some kind of water out of that pipe that was okay from the fire drill. However, this area has no water supply. The only thing in this area, there's a man who's originating in that area and he's his coalition potential, and that's Zeljko Kerum, who runs the county along with HDZ, and simply that area has no water supply. Ogorje plateau in full, so we're talking about Ogorje and Muć, there's no water supply, and the water in the house is basic human rights, basic human rights. However, the concern of Kerum, who is from Ogorje, worries Boban, is important that they share concessions on the coast in Bene. Once again, I call upon you to accept these demands, I am glad that my colleague Grmoya shines when there is no one from most of this part of the di is ruling, so at least to act fictitiously as if someone was in the hall because this is sad, sad, miserable, miserable. Look, folks, just look at these benches that are empty, we're talking about the most important document. Now we're talking about water supply in Dalmatia Zagora, I'm talking about water supply in Lika, I'm talking about water supply of settlements that have no water supply in their households, Sibenik-Knin County, in the area of Ogorje, Muća. So I can't believe I can't believe you don't want to accept this amendment. I'm glad to see what my colleagues have deployed here so it seems that the Parliament has both a majority and a minority, however, work and misery because no parliamentary representative from most of us is here, mainly from HDZ, the SDSS that didn't show up here. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15824	The 9th Amendment, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15825	The amendment is not accepted. In line with the previous explanation, I would also say that an idea solution to the water supply of the Subsystem is developed, and a project documentation is under way. After obtaining the building permits, they will go public with the procurement of works. Realisation of the project in question will provide a drinking water area of Velov, which has so far not solved public water supply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15826	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15827	Thank you very much. Velovo is a beautiful place under Svilaj at 900 m altitude where tourism could develop. On the one hand, a well-resolved road from the Croats belongs to the town of Sinj, however, it was forgotten, Ilvo, already after II. svt. The wars people were evicted from that area, what people left, it's a very small, older number. But I hope that you will see through and that Velovo will receive water supplies from the support of local self-government that has long raised her hands, obviously like you in power, raised her hands from these parts, and those areas were the source of life. That's where people used to do cattle, there were a lot of people, there were schools, we're having school crashes in the area today, why? Because there is no water supply, there is no water in the households of Ilva. Which is why there is no water, who will explain to someone that several kilometers from Sinj and several.../incomprehensible/... couple, twenty kilometers from Split, tourism, mountain tourism, mountain tourism, sports tourism, rural tourism, we have something to show for it. Above 900 meters is the area, only the village and the Danube plateau, and it goes towards Svilaj. A beautiful view from where Peru is seen, the largest lake of drinking water in this part of Europe, where the river Cetina is seen, and people have no water supply, no water in their households, and of course people have left the area. So if only this basic human right were made possible in this area, in Ilva, in the part of Sinjsko-based Dolva, a masculine Dolva, people would return to that part, live, deal with tourism, engage in livestock farming, and have potential. There are potentials and there are people who would invest and invest in that part, mostly in part of sports tourism and the like, but you don't want to. That's why I'm asking for Velva to vote for water in the household.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15828	The 10th Amendment, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15829	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction, reconstruction and cover of the Gorici canal in Sinj, thus obtaining an additional passage and solving the parking problem. A total length of 4,58 km is regulated by Bujica Goroćica from kilometre 0+40 to kilometre 3+896 and on the above regulated stock, an open-ended, concrete-recorded, natural-stated, water-stirred, water-stretched, water-stretched. In 2020, the regulation of the Gorićica stream was completed from 0,40 km to 0,+850 km. Annually, the work of economic and technical maintenance, the multiple lawns and the removal of the application from the trough on certain shares on which a certain amount of application has to be applied occasionally. The entire length, the keg of Goricice is in good and orderly condition and as such enables the smooth swelling of the blizzard waters. The provision of parking space is not in the jurisdiction of the water economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15830	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15831	Water in Sinj, Cetina region, as well as in Zagora,... goes where it goes, everything people pay for Croatian waters, canal maintenance and what goes under that part, is simply paid and of course they've done jobs, I've never seen down a truck or some bagger that cleans, here in my village some channels according to a certain... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] or streams or waters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This channel is located next to the military, Goracice, with military means 126 brigades of the Tower, and in the House of Health in Sinj is always everyone, the crowd is on the road, simply so much pressure on that road, mainly on the ambulance, mainly in the morning, so that lives are at risk. With the coverage of the part next to the barracks, we'd make a circuit, so from the home of health... They would have a circular current, so they wouldn't be in two directions this way, the road and would allow traffic flow means normal, and not in a way that endangered lives of people because emergency aid in the morning simply cannot be accessed by a large number of patients, employees who come to the House of Health Sinj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A simple solution, not to you. You don't, because Croatian waters don't care. Croatian waters are of no interest. It's important to them that... Which channel along Cetina and to charge for it, that's important to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As they maintain, they do absolutely nothing, I do not know what the people pay for these Croatian waters. I gave you a proposal where we solve a huge problem that put them at risk, that channel is when it's covered we don't get anything or we lose on Gorici, the water is going to go to the same place, that Gorocica isn't some huge, in that part of the city, that's the urban part of the city, and that channel would basically be a rescue for that part, especially as regards the circulation of the Transport at the House of Health in Sinj, I demand that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15832	Are you asking for a vote? ... 11th Amendment, Representative Bulj. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15833	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the canal Ćsin stream in Sinj, and the space would be used for parking. Bujica Pavjak, i.e. local name is Ćosin stream, the total length of 2.22 km is regulated from kilometre, from 0 km, so from the gulf in the Goracica stream to the final barrier in km 2+0.81. Annually, it also performs maintenance, application removal, recovery of damaged couplings and the entire length, the paviak trough is in good and orderly condition and as such enables the smooth swelling of the blizzard waters. The provision of parking space, as previously pointed out, is not in the water economy's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15834	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15835	Passes through the centre of Sinj feces through the river of Cosi. Here we have kindergartens, elementary school, high school center, hotel Alkar in which you stop by when Sinjska alka is at the time a good gastro offer, you leave and that's it. The first touch is with the smell of tourists when they come, but simply there are scheduled Croatian waters with a water inspection. But it's not just the people's fault that opened the sewerage through Sinj through... The canals, through the Sinj field means through the Brnaze, Turiake goes into the river Cetina clean and clear. [[You don't understand.]] The problem is that Croatia is leading both Sinj City and all those who were, the waterworks of the Cetin region, a project of agglomeration that should have been completed and should have already been solved. Because of the misjudgement, he was put into a strategic project. We also fought for it, but because of the wrong assessment of the labour price and the purchase that was carried out means because of the larger, so 100 million kuna was a bigger purchase than the estimate, there was a situation that we today brought into question the project of agglomeration of Sinj because of what is now called the president of the HDZ, yesterday... Ivana Šipić, who normally manages the process in the Cetin region of the Cetinska krajina waterway. [[You don't understand.]] Why? Because you put Sinj on the tail, but Sinj is the center of the Dalmatian fire, you put it on the tail. I'm glad it goes to Trill, that it goes to all places, in Castles. Why are you deliberately blocking Sinj and boycotting that the feces are going downtown to Hotel Alkar, near the sports hall, in the center of Cetin? And that agglomeration was without meaning you declared yourself a strategic project at a time when we could influence you have questioned and now you don't even want to cover that channel that would solve a huge problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15836	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15837	I'm looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15838	12th Amendment of the Advocacy List Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15839	The amendment is not accepted for the following reason. The Konavol field was developed 10 years ago, but due to the lack of interest of end-users primarily of the OPG in accordance with the Regulation on the management and arrangement of the irrigation system, the project was not taken into account for further preparation and implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15840	In the name of the club, respected representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15841	Dear Prime Minister, are you saying that the people in the Conavlas are not interested in getting irrigation? And you're now refusing to irrigate the Conavol field because the people in the Conavals are not interested in the state allowing them to irrigate, who are you making crazy? No, I really don't get it. And she can be as angry as she wants, if anyone is familiar or should be familiar with all aspects of life in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, then it's her because she was a parishioner before she became a minister and she knows very well what the situation is with the Conavol field and the lack of irrigation. And she should be the first one down to find a way to irrigate it. You know why? Because it's incomprehensible for me that you as state owners are 25% of that Connavol field and that you don't care. Well, we can't go forward when you don't care to quote what's yours so you can benefit from it, so that farmers can benefit from it. Not even 10% of the Konavol field is currently used, and now imagine putting it whole into operation how much more money in the tax office in your cash register is useful to you in one way or another and you don't do it. Croatian waters could withdraw 7 billion kuna by 2021 from European funds. Do you know how much you've withdrawn for this purpose? Not even 5%. So who's going to be responsible for it? I expect you to change this and accept the amendment. I ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15842	Thank you. The 13th Amendment of Representative Bulja is identical to this previous one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15843	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the production of the project documentation and the launch of the Vrgorsko polje irrigation process. In accordance with the National project of irrigation and management of agricultural land and water in the plans for irrigation of Split-Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, it is not envisaged to irrigate Vrgorsko polje as the area in question also represents the area of sanitary protection of the water source for the sources of Klokun and the Blue Eye. In order to facilitate the improvement of agricultural production and based on accepted water drain concepts from Rastok and Vrgorsko polje fields confirmed through a feasibility study, an idea project was developed to drain excess water from the Rastok and Vrgorsko polje fields. The project in question requires an environmental impact assessment process and a public procurement procedure is under way to develop an environmental impact study.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15844	... It's not identical. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's different, the other one's an amendment. My bad. Be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15845	I believe, Your Honor, that you thought it was the same amendment. You'd like that, but this is what my colleague Petrov was talking about in the Konaval field, I know him well. I was down during the Homeland War, and I'm talking about Vrgorsky Field, about Vrgorsky Field, about great potential. However, draining and irrigation is also a problem in Vrgorski polje. These valuable people who deal with vegetables, who are wine-building, fruit-growing many young OPGs were forced even because of these floods and because of the fact that you raised all your hands because of them, I've been walking around on many occasions and I'm going to go again. And last night, people called me from... from those places. [[You don't understand.]] I'm gonna go see these people. I won't forget them. I'll fight for her always because it's part of my Dalmatian burn. What are you talking about? What isn't foreseen? What isn't foreseen in the Vrgorski field? Why isn't that supposed to drain and irrigate Vrgorski polje? 200 thousand acres of raw agricultural land is in Dalmatia. You say it's not intended, we're talking about self-sufficiency, that no irrigation of the Vrgorsky field is foreseen. Have you ever heard of a vervain strawberry, Vrgorska, have you heard of their vineyards, fruits, these are men who fight on stone. Now they have a problem not only with it but also with illegal migrants entering their agricultural goods and destroying it. And no one cares about those people. So who's gonna stay living in that border area? And once again I invite you, and you citizens who are looking at this in front of this empty assembly of the MOST Club are all over Mr. Hajdukovic from the SDP and that's that. As far as HDZ is concerned, no one, as far as the SDSS is concerned, has ever seen anyone, as far as the 10th Parliament MPs, 9th constituency, no sign of a vote, no votes, no judges, no refugees, no misery, no misery. I demand a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15846	The 14th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15847	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the production of the project documentation and the launch of the watering and draining process of the Drnik polje. Sibenik-Knin County and Croatian Waters have developed idea projects with several variants of technical solution, water capture from the source of the river Čikola and a study of the impact of the procedure on the environment and nature. The process of assessing the impact of the procedure on the ecological network found that such procedures would endanger the protected species of Dalmatian gaovica and the Turkish clan and the project could not be further developed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15848	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15849	They won't hurt those kinds of people who work Peter's field with a hook and sweat. Peter's field is 5,000, 5,000 square, 5,000 km2 so to me it's a very important and specific field in Dalmatia that we have to make irrigation. Do not escape that farmers' irrigation system will damage the ecological flora and fauna in the Drniš area, the Miljevska plato, the Petrovo polje, deserves a minimum and this drna end and because of the role in the Homeland War, the eviction of that area in Drnis deserves irrigation of this field. And only because of the policy that Prime Minister Plenkovic and this government mocked when I said that Croatia must be self-sufficient, that we must process our agricultural land then Prime Minister Plenkovic even said that these were my backdrops, but in the government's proposal, he gave from a million and a half acres of agricultural land that was listed 1% in Croatia, and the prime minister promised to irrigate double. That's 7,000 km2, so 14, that's funny, not even 1% will be irrigated in government promises. That's why I call you Croatia without the village can't survive. In Vrgorec there must be a village, a village at the head, in Sinjska krajina, in Vrgorjek, imotski, Sinjski, in Lica, if the village is extinct, if we do not invest in agriculture there is no rich Croatian state without rich villages, and without irrigation we are absolutely uncompetitive and those people in these areas, young people who should work, who should be educated around agriculture and agriculture will simply go to other countries. And it happens and it's a demographic measure. People do, to ask for a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] [[Speaking at the same time, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15850	15th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15851	The amendment is not accepted. Split-Dalmatia County and Croatian Waters have developed a conceptual solution to the irrigation of the Sinjsko Polje and an idea project for the location of Trnovač for irrigation, an idea project for draining and environmental impact studies and an ecological network. The process is under way to assess the impact of environmental interventions and on the ecological network.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15852	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15853	Mother of God, as many times as I've heard this story, I don't know if you in the ministry swallow the same record, same chip, you always repeat the same story. Making documentation, agreement with the county, so Sinjsko polje is 30 km from the largest swimming pool, the largest town on the Adriatic Split, close to Makarska, close to Sibenik, Zadar, in the centre of Dalmatia Zagora, just like the Imotsko and Vrgoračka polje. So we have the potential to produce in this area immediately irrigation, so after the war they made it when the worse technology was the drain system in the Sinjsko polje, and on the day of 2020 in the plan for 2021 we don't have, you don't plan to irrigate the Sinjsko polje. So I ask you once again because of this people, because of the survival of that people, because of the production of healthy food, that import lobbys don't import harmful foods that cause increased tumors, the number of various diseases. Please, let's quote our country, is Cetina, the god of the day that goes through the srid, flows through the srid of the Sinj field, pure, clear. A thousand and one time I said that more than one smaller stream of river Cetina, Rumin or I don't know which one throws out water in one day but Israel all the sources together, and the lower irrigation system in the desert works well, and here in God's day the Ceti Valley we don't have a system of irrigation, we buy a side salad, blubber, cabbage, disaster, disaster. And I'm sorry that you can't hear, I have to say this because I'm the only Parliamentarian from the Cetina area because other parties don't care no matter what more residents have a cetinal end than Licko-Sen County since we're bigger than on the surface than Međimurska, but the Cetina landscape won't be on your tail, neither will Sinj. It won't be on your tail since the fifth month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15854	Are you asking for a vote? Are you asking for a vote? A fellow Bull?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15855	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15856	The 16th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15857	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment refers to the construction of documentation for the Imot field, the rehabilitation of the accumulation of Rice is a prerequisite for the realization of this project. The Ričica Dam Rehabilitation Project was designed, the right flank is scheduled to be recovered directly upstream from the dam and.../incomprehensible/... and upstream on the site where Ričina affects the accumulation. Up to now, concept solutions of the public irrigation and environmental impact studies have been developed through pre-accession funds and the process of assessing the impact of procedures is under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15858	Representative Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15859	I'll say one more time what we're talking about the property field, the property neighborhood. We were talking about the Chetino end, the Vrgorje end, the Drinj end, the Knin end of this beautiful area between Krka and Neretva, and I know that this area has great potential and I know that you will not accept these amendments. But I am sad as the representative of that people who sent me to this Croatian Parliament and for what the people are paying me for. It's hard to pay me with the torment of that people that I come here to fight here not in the way your colleagues do. Look at you, look at the secretary of state what this looks like here, there's no one from your coalition partner SDSS, and I'm talking about the irrigation of karst areas, karst fields that are gold in agriculture mainly for the self-sufficiency and survival of people in this area and the increase in gastro offer of course and people who would deal with production. Because any normal state would encourage people to stay in this area with money, because we will have an empty Croatia, an unprocessed Croatia. I said 200 thousand acres of Dalmatia has unprocessed agricultural land from the Imotical, Sinjski, Vrgorski, Dražno, Skradin all the way to the Zadar hinterland, the Straight Wheels. So that's the potential to feed 11 million people, and we're importing 3 billion euros in food products. We've never imported again, never given any more incentives, and we've never produced less because that money goes into the pocket of party officials instead of farmers and peasants to survive in that area. Suppose our fields have springs of rivers, we have clean water. Let us plant, model and strengthen the village only then will we have the rich and safe self-sufficient Croatia we dreamed of, for which we fought. I demand that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15860	17th Amendment of MP Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15861	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is identical to the previous explanation for Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15862	Councilman Kujundzic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15863	So if I've listened well, thank you President, I apologize, if I've listened well, it seems to me that you've mentioned an idea project, haven't you? It is. So watch what I tell you again not directly to you. But the idea projects, and for 30 years we've been in the state and this property neighborhood has given this country everything he's had, gave everything that's most valuable and that's youth. On the other hand, in 2020, we would talk about an idea project to irrigate the Imot field. So if you don't know the property field stretches specifically the property-backfield at 95 kilometers square. Only 10% has been processed. I'll tell you that a man of property is the man who would do that field. He's doing it today. The man of property is the one who is used to the history of one piece of junk and stone to create something. So, the Imotian landscape in general in the global world, looking at it, was devastationed by shutting down all the plants that existed there. All that's left is this cowardly country, that 95km square on one side. On the other hand, all that the area currently has is one form of tourist offer villa with swimming pools that have exclusively nipped on the credit line of that tough Imotic man. So it is incomprehensible to me and it is incomprehensible to me that in all of Croatia, so in the Imot region of 2020, an idea project is being developed, and after the development of this idea project, we will not know how many years we will wait to realize only the irrigation of the mentioned field. And I told you the first branch of tourism is tourism, and quality tourism without agriculture is nowhere to be found. Thank you. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15864	Thank you. We now move on to the draft financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2021 and projection of the plan for 2022 and 23. Dear Secretary of State Tomislav Mihotic, please. The first amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15865	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honored representatives. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes providing funds for the construction of the town of Metkovic's merger with the shortest connection to Metković – Metković. Croatian roads started with a project preparation to mention the project, but in the meantime, the county plan for the road was categorized as a county road and moved into the jurisdiction of the county road administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15866	In the name of the club, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15867	So we've been here all day proposing amendments for all the ends of our country and you keep refusing them. I wasn't elected to the 10th constituency, I was elected to 6. I defended the amendments today mostly for Sisak-Moslavina County. A colleague of Petrov defended amendments related to Dubrovnik, Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the City of Metkovic. But this amendment to connect Metkovic on the highway we've been proposing to you here for four years and you keep refusing him. You keep saying no. And what I can tell my Mets and Bullets, if anything is ever built, any connection between Metkovic on the highway, it will be because of this pressure here. It will be because of our pressure because every year we remind you of what you promised. The Metkovic compound on the highway means we're looking for it and hopefully, because now you're going to have to promise it now, you're going to say that it's in the preparation of project documentation, that something is going to be done, and we're hoping that eventually it will come to the realization of that project because it doesn't mean that whatever you're running the county, the city, the state that we're warning here, we're never going to do it like this at any time. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15868	2nd Amendment of the Representatives of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15869	Same explanation as the first one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15870	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15871	The amendment is denied.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15872	He refuses the same other?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15873	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15874	So again the same thing, the same explanation, the rejection of Metkovic's merger on the highway. It's a city that loses its population, people leave Metkovic, they leave because you can work in police, public services, schools, educational institutions, there's no good economic zone. The economic zone means that, let's say, on the highway, it's Kula Norinska, Nova Sela, and Metkovic needs that date on the highway. And I call once again on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider this amendment, there is a chance that in the coming year it will go no matter what is not foreseen or some representatives of the ruling majority accept this amendment. There is time, so we have shown good will, we insist on proposing this amendment every year, we are fighting for Metkovic's merger on the highway, you are constantly refusing. I was this amendment while we were in the government and asked Minister Maric to withdraw it. You know why? And Butkovic. Because they promised, he says it's not big funds, we'll put it in the budget. It's never been done. And all this stuff you're giving at Metkovic's because you're afraid of us. As long as there's a strong MOST in Metkovic, you'll be making funds just so we don't get back, so at least let's see, so they don't just come back to me, but do something and invest in our city. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15875	3rd Amendment of Representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15876	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of the project documentation and the start of construction of the connected road between highway A1 and the town of Sinja, Kukuzovac-Kristica. Croatian roads are under way to develop a new idea solution and a new SUO for the Dicma bypass. Bringing spatial planning documentation to the Split-Dalmatia County will continue further during the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15877	Be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15878	Thank you very much. It's a Cetin area compound on the Krizice-Kukuzovac highway, 30 years old. mentions me, I think you mentioned countless times while you were in the county working together with Sanader, Ževrna and that click that promised the people of Cetina a quick road. For the first time there was a document that happened, it happened on my initiative in 2016 when I became a parliamentary representative, a feasibility study was done under my pressure, I say quite frankly, and at the Alkar Hotel in Sinj was presented and the variant was chosen. And then it was said at the Alkar Hotel when the feasibility study, I think you were, but you forget it, you don't care, you don't care, you don't laugh, you don't care, if you care then Sinj, you're from these parts, you come often down, then Sinj and Cetinski end would deserve it if we have 50,000 inhabitants, the Cetin region. I'll insist on this, I've set up a cornerstone. I know it's pre-election time for you to come and mark that fast road. You've been prepared since the panic when I ran for mayor's session in Split, two billion kunas you've told the projects. Among other priorities was this direction between Sinj and Split, which means that Sinj becomes the suburb of Split, 15 minutes we have from Split to Sinj, Cetinski end becomes the most perspective source, he is now the most prospective, Sinj will be the most perspective. And this is the most attractive area from Savudrija to Prevlaka and as the tourist potential and proximity to Split and this pool is the greatest potential for development. And I'm ashamed to hear the people I know from you when you say nothing will be done and project documentation. That's a lie. There'll be a fast road under pressure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15879	You're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15880	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15881	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15882	Loud.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15883	4th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15884	Amendment 4. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a project documentation for the construction of a connected road between the A1 highway and the town of Imotski as well as the connected roads themselves. Croatian roads have opened a tender for an idea solution and an environmental impact study.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15885	No, Ravča, Ravča, Ravča-Drvenik is 4, Ravča-Drvenik is 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15886	He got a little confused about the Kukuzovnik and the Cross.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15887	Amendment 4? That's what it looks like to me, that's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15888	It's real.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15889	I'm 3. - He's a coward. He's a 4th.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15890	Ravča-Drvenik is 4th, 5th is Drniš, 6. Immotically.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15891	Then it's all wrong, I'm sorry. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of shares A1 Ravca-Drvenik. Croatian roads have launched the acquisition of a new innovation of an idea solution with a new environmental impact study for the 12 km Ravča node Drvenik shares. The public procurement process, the creation of an idea solution innovation and a new SUO with a previous and main assessment of the outcome and the solution for the acceptability of the environmental procedure permit for the 12 km-long Ravca Drvenik node is ongoing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15892	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15893	Thank you very much. Here in 2005 you opened the tunnel started by building Ravča-Drvenik which is very important for the island of Hvar and unloading the port in Split is 20 minutes away from Hvar to Drvenik with the opening of this space to make Vrgorački and of course our i.e. in our Herzegovina for the people of Croatia in the area would be very important for survival in the area. A few times ago, that tunnel was opened, the start of construction work. 2006. Branko Bačić and then the president of the Bebic Assembly came and opened up, you have at the Ministry of Transport, you will see on the pages, the rest is still, the beginning of the construction in 2005. During Eve Sanader, whom no one knows from you now, I don't mention anymore, but none of you know Ivo Sanader anymore. During Eve Sanader, a cornerstone was laid and construction began. Luka Bebic, president of the assembly and Branko Bacic opened it. Yeah, open it, I got pictures, documented, you got at the Ministry. So don't make fun of yourself, always the same story, it's a very important project, not for Mira Bulja, not for you, it's important for Hvar, for Drvenik, for this Vrgorac move, for the entire Dalmatian Zagora, for the move towards Herzegovina is very important for people there, in the peak area is the possibility of tourist development with that road. We're approaching the sea, coast, coastal coastal areas, and it's also one of the key projects for that area. And I expect you to no longer lay stone foundations, as far as stone foundations have set themselves to the opening of these strategic projects, you could have built a good palace, a good palace. So I ask that votes on this very important amendment, the Ravca-Drvenik tunnel.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15894	5th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15895	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a project documentation for the construction of a connected road between the A1 highway and the city of Drniš, as well as the connecting road itself. By reconstructing the state road D33, the town of Drniš is connected to the highway A1, and in addition Croatian roads produce project documentation at the level of the main project of the Drniš bypass.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15896	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15897	Thank you very much. If it weren't for a few months ago, the minister and, like every time, said he would open at the airport entrance, that the airport would be this one on the way out of Sibenik towards Drnis and Knin and that it would be a highway trip to Drnis and Knin. I, of course, have now broken Drnish and Knin apart by amendment. In fact, it's connected if you were to do highways because it's frozen, is the highway not meant to bypass the Dalmatian Zagora, and the road of the state you mention is not adequate to that area, i.e. It's not a road that's safe, nor does that neighborhood deserve such a bad ticket. If the highway was built just to get through it, through those areas, then it doesn't make sense. The highway must have exits to Drnis and in this case amendments to Drnis, and so to Knin, and to my son's section, as well as the Iot and Vrgorian parts. If there's no such thing, then that area remains a appendix. If the goal of this Croatian policy is for the Dalmatian Zagora with the highway to become a blind hose then it is absolutely the wrong project. With connections to these areas Drniš becomes the suburbs of Sibenik, as well as Knin, and I think this project is very important. And that's the end he deserves. That's, that's the neighborhoods that were under occupation. In fact, they are also symbols of the resistance of our people in the area. I think there's a lot of tough people on that stone in Zagora, the Drinjski end, Kninski, Sinjski and they'll survive in that area. However, in order to create the conditions for return and to bring those areas closer to Sibenik with that road and so that people can live and raise their children, it is indeed the only real solution. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15898	6th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15899	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a project documentation for the construction of a connected road between the A1 highway and the town of Imotski. Croatian roads have opened a tender for the development of an idea solution and an environmental impact study of ideas projects with the establishment of a local permit for the planned state road Zagvozd-Imotski.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15900	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15901	So every election we promise, so here I put the Imotski although there is a colleague Kujundzic who could speak, but here because of the continuity I put it this year, so I would say that Zagvozd-Imotski is a very important trance that brings Imotski also closer to the highway is the one and is the biggest problem and is closer to them, and coming to Split and Imotski himself becomes a tourist attraction. I must say that Biokovo's tunnel has brought a lot of good meaning to Imotski, but without the fast road Zagvozd-Imotski I think it is also then a highway that did not do well in the area because people will move out, and mainly these people who are in the back of Herzegovina, means our Croats who are important to our countrymen, who are important to us to survive in that area. It is therefore very important that these people can survive in this area, they and their families and that they can come very quickly to Split, Makarska, to other areas where they live and work. And that's why I think that all these projects that I've given from the fast road to Sinj which is very important, and also these others, I'm asking that everyone together, I'm asking that we all think this through. I am sorry that there are no more parliamentary representatives from that area who have been elected, what they have now escaped somewhere under the yorgan and the cyres and watching television and perhaps even the red ones do the people have to know who he chose. Here, we've already, I've given 70 amendments, my colleagues have given over 150 amendments from the Most Club. So we spend all day talking and giving constructive, correct, clear suggestions for the survival of people in these areas and for better living conditions. We're giving you concrete projects that have been in your programmes for the year, from the election cycle, from election cycles.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15902	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15903	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15904	7th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15905	It's back on road D33, so that's road A1 over Drnis to Knin. The amendment is not accepted. In particular, the city of Knin is mentioned. Project documentation for the Knina bypass is being prepared, the concept of a solution is being changed in agreement with local self-government and the projects mentioned for this reason is not included in the road construction and maintenance plan. In the next period, the justification of the project will be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15906	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15907	I worked for 13 years in Knin, and after the Storm I stayed and knew that Drain and Knin end as my pocket. I like that end because my heart is rested when I look at that end and how people have stayed in that area in Drnis, Knin, on that Milling plateau in the whole area, and I am glad to be in that area with good people, but unfortunately there are less and less young people in that area. I think that road that we're talking about from Drnis to Knin has the opportunity with certain means to expand to three strips and maybe to four strips, to both be two because of the speed because when it's going to be done. So let's be realistic, you said that now you're in the design of some bypass of the City of Knin that will mostly bypass the City of Knin and the City of Drniš, so we're talking about a road that is a compound in being between Knin and Drniš to allow it to flow more easily in certain places, it can be often crowded when Knin, Drniš, Sibenik or I don't know in which other, according to the highway. Therefore, until a fast road is made from the Drniš-Knin highway, I believe that this existing road, with certain means, can be made possible in certain places better, safer transport, better, faster transport, and I believe that these parts deserve it. And you're from that neighborhood, I mean we all know each other, we're all close and we're all thinking that way and we always talk now we have a project around Knin in agreement with local self-government. It's like you're relieved if you've talked to the mayors and the mayors, and the mayors and the mayors have to be good to you because they won't get anything, so that's the system you know. And I can speak freely and say that this area deserves this road of existing expansion determined for traffic security. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15908	8th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15909	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the first stage of construction of the Lekenik-Sisak highway. Croatian roads implement the realisation of the project Lekenik-Sisak i.e. the combination of highways with the town of Sisak as follows, on the section of the road of the connect road of Sisak-Sisak near the roundabout Stari Pračno to Most Odra and from Mosta Odra to the connection with Zagreb street in Sisak the public procurement procedure for construction works was conducted. A tender for the production of all kinds of main projects is being held, geodetic and geotechnical research works are being carried out and building permits are being issued for the northern corner of the connecting road node Sisak-Sisak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15910	On behalf of the club, the representative is a respected representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15911	Thank you. So, here all day long here was a series of amendments to Sisak-Moslavina County, I'm the only representative, I think he gave a fellow Lenart from HSS one amendment, I'm the only representative of 14 of them who gave amendments to that county, who was elected from the 6th constituency. No one here today, this is a disgrace and that none of the senior officials of this honorary House has responded to the fact that he has not invited any of the ruling majority representatives. Over 150 amendments have been discussed all day, and over 150 amendments have been made by representatives of the Mostos who are the only ones here with SDP MP Hajdukovic present at HS. I call on citizens to look at this shame and reject the proposal where we are looking for the construction of the Lekenik-Sisak highway section because a certificate of compliance of the main project with the spatial planning of the city of Sisak has been issued. It means that you cannot accept any amendment, and we have given amendments as I have repeatedly repeated for all parts of Croatia, and here we are talking about a county that is devastated, from which young people emigrate, which is ahead of a demographic breakdown, and there who is ruled by HDZ, Mayor Žimic in County, in Sisak, mayor of the SDP, Ikić Baniček. Here's what you did to Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County and you don't want any amendments to that county to accept. And you're not ashamed that there's no one here in the ranks of the ruling majority while you reject our amendments. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15912	9th Amendment of the Independent List Bridges Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15913	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the completion of the fast road to Bjelovar. Croatian roads have contracted a novelty of the idea and main project documentation of the location and construction permit for the construction of the state road D12 of Farkaševac-Bjelovar, about 17 km long, for a sub-division of 10+560 to 15+700 km, a tender for works was held. The contractor has been selected and the work is under way. And for a sub-division of 15+700m to 27+530m to Bjelovar, a tender for the selection of contractors is planned by the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15914	In the name of the club, respected representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15915	As long as I don't see the road, I can't trust you. What's proven to be a lot of promises, you don't give anything, you take everything, it looks like that in the end, unfortunately. And again I'm going to say, I don't mean you in particular right now, it's not personal, I'm speaking generally for the ruling how it ends in the end because I've heard this story a lot of times, you know, right now we're leaving, tomorrow. No, no, no, I don't want tomorrow, I want to see the road done, so I won't stop talking. Why am I talking about Bjelovar? Well, you can't hate this piety ending, these people have to grow to your heart because of their self-discovery, because of their hard work, and they don't ask for much. I spoke last year about the Crosses and today I will talk about both the Crosses and the Bjelovar and all that area because they don't ask for much, they ask only to give them the opportunity to earn for themselves and for their family. They'll make a living if you bring that road. So there will be additional jobs, it will be traffic-related to the city of Zagreb, it will be more worth what they make. And I will repeat you again as well as the previous amendments will ultimately bring more to your register. I'll say again, will you be selfish and watch it that way or you'll be altruistic because you want to help them, whatever, but help them because at this point both the Crosses and the whole Podravina and Bjelovar are the appendix. People who live on their farms, from industry and self-absorbed and working and industrious, don't ask for much, so long after 30 years of promising to bring them a road that might make money for themselves and for their family, it's not much. Please make a road. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15916	10th, are you looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15917	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15918	10th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15919	The amendment is accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the design and construction of the fast road Varazdin Ilock in the area through the County Virovitica-Podravska [[In the name of the club...]] i.e. Virovitica – Slatina, Croatian roads built and placed on the market Virovitica – Suhopolje, and agreed to produce project documentation of all types of ideas and main projects, the implementation of geodetic and geotechnical research works, the location and construction permits for the Suhopolje stock – Slatina length of about 23 km. [[Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15920	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15921	Here's your thanks, Chairman. Before I look back at this amendment, I still feel sad with an empty booth because it's unclear for me that someone doesn't feel ashamed. For example, I look at these constituencies, these hardworking people sitting around all day doing nothing wrong, whatever it takes to do the work, I wonder what it would be like if they didn't come to their work, what their sanctions would be, and nobody asks them at the end of the line with the pay they have to get to the end. So, the shame of both sad Croatia and an even sadder picture of us who should light up, bring light into Croatia, each one of us, but return to the amendment. So, I guess we all know that the starting point is any normal development, any end is actually road infrastructure. We believe that the state budget for 2021 provides for the means to design and build actually fast road Varazdin – Ilock in part through County Virovitičko-podravska i.e. on the Virovitica – Slatina track. Right now there's actually two bypasses around these two cities, but there's also a need to make a combination of these two bypasses. So Croatia does not develop as it should, it does not develop as often as it can say and hear, and it is some kind of even development. So in Croatia there are areas that have been forgotten and in Croatia there are areas where project documentation and ideas are actually sort of fiddling to get the impression that something is done. And we demand a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15922	11th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15923	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of the project documentation and the start of the construction of the fast road Okucani – Pakrac – Grubisno Polje. State road D5, Terezino Polje border crossing, Virovitica, Veliki Zdenci, Daruvar, Okucani, Stara Gradiška border crossing is planned as a future fast road in strategic plans of the Republic of Croatia. In the direction of D5 it is in the project development of shares that visits Pakrac and Lipik, which is tasked in the first phase to solve local traffic problems as a bypass with one stake, while the second wheel would later be built in the phase of connecting the fast road to the whole according to the increase in traffic. In the area of Bjelovarje-Bilogorje County, the construction of the shares of the state road D12 Vrbovec – Bjelovar – Virovitica, the border crossing of Terezino Polje. In particular, Farkaševac – Bjelovar shares in the length of 16,9 km.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15924	On behalf of the club, respected representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15925	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Reiner, the Honorable Secretary of State, I must, I really don't want to be a pain in the ass, I don't want to be bored with the Croatian public, here while I'm sitting I've got 40 messages from citizens who text me and say Marine is possible that in the Croatian Parliament, let's just get tired of people there around 14, 15 hours so maybe someone would understand, but there's not a single HDZ agent all day, here a colleague from the SDP is the only one with us since this morning, it's wrong for the Croatian public and I really can't talk about being disappointed and I think that we should still show each other a higher level of collegiity. I think the rulings could show a slightly higher dose of empathy and in such a way they would give us a boost, the one, here as fellow opposition and power, but in those things that are in the interest of the Croatian people, we are together, here we work together on the welfare of our people. But obviously here's not how it works. There is no life without road, and Bjelovar-Bilogor County is one of the few in Croatia where not one meter of fast road passes. I as a Riverain must fight now here in this honorable home to get out of traffic isolation is a prerequisite for attracting investment and staying people in this area. So please, secure the funds, we need to think about all of Croatia, for all citizens of Croatia from the smallest village to the capital of Zagreb, we need to think about every man, please find the means and start building this fast road. I'm also asking you, Vice President, for this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15926	Thank you. 12th Amendment of the Advocacy List Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15927	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of the project documentation and the start of the construction of the fast road Kutina-Garesnica-Daruvar. In this direction Croatia already has planned shares that are in preparation, and the project requested is not included in the plan of building and maintaining state roads. In the next period, the justification of the project will be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15928	In the name of the club, respected representative Kujundzic..
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15929	Thank you, Chairman. Wherever there is one man, one man is justified to invest. So, who gives us the right to decide with the citizens' money what priority we'll build it on a normal road so that this man in that neighborhood breathes, lives freely, who gives us the right? No one, we've been on our own for years. And however you observe what I tell you, I speak frankly, I speak out of love, out of no evil to spit you out, politics anything. So who gives it the right to judge someone something? In all the paperwork you mention and all the projects I want you not to be executed within these projects, so that they don't interfere with you, that we don't happen to go build Virovitica, and we end up in Dubrovnik, and then we get on the ground, then we see that the project documentation doesn't really fit. What's even more embarrassing, and it's none of your business, we've submitted amendments that don't concern us personally. None of us here stand here personally all day long to be here. I don't even know a handful of separatists who here's what they want right now. So the amendments do not concern those who are not here in the assembly, they concern the Croatian people and here someone is supposed to be sitting here today, here someone is supposed to be today. I expect the chairman to attend at least one of the next sessions, and here you will at least express your regret to colleagues who are not present today and warn that there would be a message that we send to Croatian citizens to deal with the presence. As far as this amendment is concerned, the Bjelovar-Bilogor County is the only one of the few in which not one meter of fast road passes, means not one foot of fast road. Still these people ride the road that's at the North Kabul level after the war. I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15930	Thank you very much. The 13th Amendment is the representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15931	The amendment is not accepted. The fast road section is designed, implemented with a planned dynamic that is conditioned objectively about objective circumstances related to property law, the adoption of a spatial plan and the problem of catasters and land books.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15932	There is no representative, so we have to vote on it. The 14th amendment is MP Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15933	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for forecasting the financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2021 and projections for 2022 and 2023 are in line with the dynamics of the implementation of that project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15934	There is no representative, so we have to vote on it. 15th Amendment of the Independent List Bridges Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15935	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to include the Orebic bypass procedure in the financial plan. Croatian roads prepare project documentation at the level of ideas and main projects with the exit of local and construction permits for the Orebic bypass. At the same time, environmental impact studies are under way. After those procedures, they will continue to take place. Otherwise, this project is in the context of connecting Korčula with the mainland, meanwhile an agreed and ferry port on the Korčula side, reconstruction of the road from the Korčula side. This will be access to the new ferry port near Kućića with the Orebić bypass, therefore it is a complete project that will, together with the Pelješki bridge, open the entire area much better and connected than it has ever been.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15936	On behalf of the club, respected representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15937	Thank you, Chairman. So, regardless of what project the mentioned road will be, we are still asking that the construction plan of the state roads is as a result of normal, with the financial plan itself, and that the procedure of the Orebic bypass was included in the budget, for which the Croatian roads had yet to be reached on 29 August 2011 a solution on the acceptability of the procedure for the environment. If you need a website, I'll give it to you. So, by similar analogy, who tells us that the current project documentation you say is a great solution for Orebic and the entire area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, however, who tells us it won't last until 2031, 2041, and someone lives down there. So let's all understand that down there someone lives, those people down there who live in the budget are giving something away. Give me back something. We're looking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15938	16th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15939	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the resolution of the rest of the Polish road. In the public procurement process, a tender for a project documentation service covering the rehabilitation of Poljička street in Split is the construction of the travelers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15940	On behalf of the club, Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15941	Thank you, Chairman. So, even if we were to exempt this amendment Split as such, Split which is the second city in Croatia has been neglected. I believe everyone will agree with that. It is a city where I spent nine years of beautiful, a city that has been more or less infrastructure-like since that time in 2006, if not similar to a few minor procedures. So, Split, mainly Poljička cesta, road of death, zebras on which we could read in the Black Chronicles, stopped growing countless young lives, which from the Republic of Croatia, which from neighbouring BiH students. So, including this amendment, and including everything else, I don't know if you know about traffic jams in Kili? So, people working night shifts should leave the parking lot outside, in front of the painting, in front of their building at 7:00 in the morning. So Split is worth a lot more than what this country gives him. We're asking for a vote on this amendment and of course we won't give up on it. We're keeping an eye on everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15942	17th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15943	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a circular current at the entrance to Opuzen from the direction of Ploce-Dubrovnik. Croatian roads will conduct a tender for the selection of designers on the design of an idea solution and elaborate, if necessary, environmental impact assessment, design all types of ideas projects, conduct geodetic and geotechnical research works, and result in location permits for the reconstruction of the intersections of state roads D8 and D9 in the town of Opuzen. A study of different solutions for the reconstruction of intersections has been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15944	In the name of the club, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15945	Unfortunately, in Ouzen, we know that local HDZ is in power by dividing the country and therefore reflecting itself on the authorities. It's weakly invested, the emigration is very large, and we're asking here to allocate funds to build a circular current at the entrance to Opuzen from the direction of Ploče-Dubrovnik. The project itself would solve the traffic rate of the city of Obuzen and entrepreneurship facilities which, due to the absence of the circular current itself, forced customers to drive their large cargo vehicles through the city itself, through Zagreb Street where children's kindergartens, primary schools and infirmarys are located. It is unfortunate that here you refuse this amendment, all day long here persistently, that none of our 150 amendments have been accepted and that you are doing so without the presence of the ruling majority's representatives. We can't agree to that. We won't agree to that. This time you can get away with it, but the citizens could see how you treat us, those who chose us and the Croatian citizens who paid us all. This is the shameful behaviour of both the Croatian government and the ruling majority. Here's the MOST's here, I came to the assembly this morning just eight hours ago, now it's 20 and 50, close to 21, so we're here all the time, and none of the ruling majority representatives were here in the assembly. It is a shame that you reject this amendment for Opuzen, especially since you are in power there, so I can't believe you don't care about Opuzen, the Neretva Valley, but not about all the other parts of Croatia for which we have given the amendments. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15946	18th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15947	Unacceptable, the argument is already given in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15948	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15949	Thank you, Chairman. I agree with my colleague Bolt. Refuse all the amendments that someone wrote, which isn't again... I know that you've been sent here, and you've been written what you need to say, it's clear to me, and I understand that you might have done a lot of things differently if you were doing them, maybe even inside yourself, and you're getting along with quite the number of this or part of what each of us here has said today, but unfortunately neither of us are, and neither are you in a situation that we could point to the importance and importance of what's on the ground. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This importance and importance of what is on the ground certainly is not the product of our all-knowing level but is actually the product of continuous communication with people living in a certain area, so here and in mine, I can say freely, after my Imotski, my Split. I refuse to say all amendments are actually a message not one inclusive Croatian. It is a very ugly message, a message exclusively for Croatia, and such an empty, spooky, gravely empty assembly is the message of a non-worker Croatia within which someone will receive a salary and not work. As for the design of an idea and main project itself, we mention again the same road that requires urgent denivelation, of course the Poljička road itself and the town of Zvonimir in Split in the construction of the travelers. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15950	The 19th is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15951	The 19th is Polička and Zvlamirova, which you have just mentioned. The amendment is not accepted, and the prerequisite for the realisation of this exit from Split city port is the process of changing the GUP of Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15952	On behalf of the club...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15953	I'll get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15954	...representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15955	It is. So, changes to the GUP as such know that they are not at the level of the resolution ministry. In the end, however, both policies, both left and right in Split, have changed over the past period. I don't understand this one that someone inside that city has no vision? And what's even less clear to me is that someone from the RES has no vision, so someone in Split who doesn't have a vision of a word, okay, let's plan for the long term, so let's do that GUP. Anyway, so I don't say something wrong, we're asking for a vote on this amendment and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15956	20th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15957	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to produce project technical documentation for new roads and roads through the town of Duzluk to the lake, as well as the exit road from the lake. These access roads and roads are not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15958	Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15959	Dear Mr. Reiner and Mr. Secretary of State, I must again conclude that it turns out that we are more viewed by the families in their living rooms and that in many families it is so than that we are here in this honorable home in the Croatian Parliament in a assembly which is the largest representative body of our country. And it really saddens me that all day here, here I am today a little early around 8 and 15 with my colleague Kujundzic, with his colleague Bul, Grmoja came at 8 and 30 and that there is no one here all day, that there is not a single HDZ representative, the ruling furniture, and that there is only one colleague from the SDP to the end. I'm really sorry, my heart hurts. We found no face on the road, and we should treat the Croatian public with much, much more responsibility. The Orahovac lake in Duzluk is an artificial lake located at the foot of the Papuka mountain near Ružica town, which is the main and most visited destination of Orahovica during the summer days. More than 100,000 tourists are coming there, and then people are breaking up the shock absorbers on their cars because the roads leading to that lake may be more likely to organize horse carriages to transport 100,000 tourists. Whose responsibility is rather than the responsibility of the state to care and to do everything it can for every Croatian citizen, and then in this respect we want to develop in tourism, we want to build there, so let's gentlemen help people, let's make all the roads we need, the whole infrastructure. The independent list courageously proposes to include project-technical documentation for new roads and roads through Duzluk to the lake.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15960	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15961	Please Vice President of the Croatian Parliament vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15962	The 21st Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15963	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes a new bridge on the river Cup. Croatian roads have the priority to connect the town of Sisak with the highway on the part of Sisak – Sisak knots and will create the preconditions for considering and launching project documentation for the new bridge on the river Kupi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15964	In the name of the club, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15965	Thank you. Here is the 21st hour, you refuse and this amendment to Sisak-Moslavina County, meaning where we were looking for a new bridge on the river Buy, which would reroute transit traffic, reroute, relieve other traffic or the only existing, one existing connection of the northern and southern part of Sisak, the bridges of thunder, and create an exit to the municipal zone south that is expanding and aimed at further expanding and attracting investors. Project documentation for bridges and access roads has been developed so far and an idea solution has been developed. So it's sad that this amendment for that county, for the city of Sisak, you're refusing to accept any of the amendments that we as the Most Club have given here and that we are the only one here all day in the debate without any representative of the ruling majority. This is unprecedented, but here is simply what you want to do now, to do all these amendments, despite the fact that there is no one from HDZ and I am saddened that the highest officials of the Croatian Parliament have done nothing to ensure that representatives of the ruling majority are present. I demand a vote on this amendment and I hope this is when the vote on amendments is that something will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15966	22nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15967	The amendment is not accepted, as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15968	In the name of the club, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15969	So, it's similar, it's a similar amendment we're looking for means resolving this traffic issue, building a new bridge on the Buy River, and I'm not going to be longer than I'm calling for means one more representative of the ruling majority to support, to support this amendment because simply Sisak-Moslavina County deserves therefore, given the negative demographic trends and all that is happening in that part of our country, because this better traffic connection will certainly lead to better and greater economic activity, and thus to the possible remnant of people in that part of our country. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15970	23rd Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15971	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes the provision of funds for the production of project documentation and the implementation of the circular flow at the D1 merger with the Street Road of Markets in Sinj. A public procurement procedure is under way to arrange works at the relevant intersection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15972	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15973	Thank you very much. Otherwise, in Sinj investment in transport infrastructure as well as this circular flow that you say is now public procurement, I know it's pre-election time, but I gave this amendment as last year, when I gave it up and I'm glad if it's there at that stage. It means that we've moved a little bit, but I've been to the Croatian roads countless times to yell, to yell, to look for what to the people of the triba, which is in this case to clear the city of Sinj from the traffic that we have, busy and mostly in the morning, in the mornings and afternoons when we return. However, when we speak to the roads, you simply say we will not accept, you are aware because you are often in the city of Sinj, that the city of Sinj is essentially forgotten. Traffic-forgotten, traffic-insulated, but that's perspective. Sinj is a perspective city and the area of the town of Sinj is perspective, perhaps the most perspective I repeat in the hinterland from Savudrija to Prevlaka. That's why these circular flows, this circular current that we're talking about means code.../incomprehensible/... i.e. According to the market, from the D1 circular flow you've made is a disaster, but then we'll have an amendment. It's a circular current that looks pretty good on Vukovar Street. in the centre of the city of Sinj where on all sides means we have this pedestrian crossing and it's not a good solution. So we have a certain and Jake's guano should be relieved by the same circular course and hopefully these amendments that I've given in, in, in, that follow that you'll accept that part, you know they're good solutions. I know that Croatian roads say that these solutions and my proposals that I make are good solutions for discharging the city of Sinja i.e. The flow of traffic through the city of Sinj which knows the matter of concern and I expect you to support these amendments. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15974	24th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15975	The amendment is not accepted. It's already on a few occasions we're talking about D-33, by Sibenik i.e. From the highway, through Drnis to Knin, the previous procedures have reconstructed most of the road from Sibenik to Drnis, and the reconstruction from Drnis to Knin is in the design phase.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15976	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15977	Well D-33 is a road that requires reconstruction due to, again speaking, and traffic safety and traffic speed, and has the possibility on certain routes to be on most of the route until a quick road highway is resolved to make this time Sibenik-Drniš-Knin. to be done on the profession with which I have often talked and which give certain solutions based on it and made this amendment for this road and I expect that Sibenik-Knin County, along with all the promises that it makes, mainly the Spider Mayor and in this area, mainly for Drniš and Knin are simply these areas are also traffic-insulated because of the whole Zagora, I speak from Krka to Neretva, this area because of this traffic isolation and oblivion, ever since the counties were founded, here you know, you were also a county employee, is 100,000 people less. One of the key people is this very traffic isolation, it means a lot to people that they can quickly, faster and painlessly reach larger centres where they have opportunities or jobs or that they can send their children to studies and so on. However, your refusals disappoint me more and more and more when I see, I don't sink, I have obligations, I'm sorry, I've given all the amendments, no matter what some colleagues in the opposition have begged me to cut us out of the revolution, no, I've written these amendments, and I'll be done and it's no heroic work. Dear citizens, it's quite normal, but this is a shame, this is what you're paying the honourable secretary of state. I don't know how you feel? I know that this has been written to you, directed to you, and for the first time on the budget there is no minister, his juicer Oleg Butkovic, and that is what I will discuss in the next term, in the next amendment to this
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15978	/Intruder: Are you proposing a vote?/ [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15979	I'm looking for a vote on this, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15980	25th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15981	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15982	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15983	Thank you very much. I wanted to say that Oleg Butkovic, the Ministry of Transport, from the Croatian Roads said that this year there would be 5 billion kuna projects if the secretary of state did not cheat. But mostly everything about the juices of traffic, something and the railways, or something less, something around Zagreb, is all about Minister Oleg Butkovic's juice. Can you send him a message because he no longer has the courage to come before all these amendments, he was here, but he's obviously as embarrassed as he is to fellow MPs. Here is a colleague who mentioned Sibenik-Kninska just before, none of them, this Sisak-Moslavina, no one from Split-Dalmatia, from this except for colleagues from MOST, no one from Sibenik-Kninska, no one from like, no one from the circular region of the Republic of Croatia from the parliamentary representatives who got legitimacy. As for Oleg Butkovic, please tell him that he is not the Minister of his Sokak, his municipality, his village, he is not a village bećar, he is the minister, the Croatian minister, a very responsible duty and he cannot come and only promise down when something in the County Assembly in Split is little, there is a subject raised to the level of the public then he runs around Split here is a session, here is 5 billion, lying, misleading. So you are witnesses, out of 2 billion kunas promised in Split to Split-Dalmatia County 3 years ago. So far he's achieved zero kuna, zero, nothing. So nothing, for God's sake, but project documentation every year. If you can, for that he didn't give me an answer, Secretary of State dibs, do you deposit that empty file? Is there any way to see how many of these files have been made so far? I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15984	26th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15985	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the state road D-220 Trilj-Kamensko. An environmental impact study to build a new direction is in the works. moving D-220 from Caporica to Velic. Project documentation for the reconstruction of the state road D-220 shares from Velic to the tijarica compartment is under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15986	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15987	When we talk about this trile-stone stock, I often go upstairs, or else I have a Tiyarica... It's a very dangerous road from Trill, and what you've announced is that there's a new, alternative direction absolutely that's a story for small children. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a good alternative direction, and that's Koshute-Kukuzovac, which I started a long time ago, but here I even managed to figure out that it's in the spatial plan, and that in the county they're not even aware of. It's a good project. However, this project of expanding the road from Trilj to Kamenska, meaning the whole area, I don't know if there were...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15988	From Velic to Kamenska, to Velic, there is a new route.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15989	I speak Trilj, Trilj-Kamensko, in that part of my amendment you know that this road is dangerous, that there are restrictions, that there is a great traffic towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to the border do I often go there and I know what this road means here and it is very large restrictions, it is slowly coming, and it is the same potent area, unfortunately the evicted area also because of the bad policies of the Croatian government, but above all our county i.e. Split-Dalmatia counties and of course cities and municipalities in this area that don't care about it at all, which is an empty area, but is a beautiful area if I know it well. And so once again, that road is now the breadth of the housewives, let's be realistic towards Kamenski, towards BiH, from Split, from the direction of Split, it is the sheath of the housewives towards Livn, Duvn, Tomislavgrad and those parts and that is the fact. And you're on that road without having to expand in certain parts, i.e. Ensure better flow than it is obligation, there are helmets very dangerous therefore Trilj – Stone Tribba under emergency make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15990	27th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15991	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the production of project documentation for the underpass on the state road in Sinj, Vukovar Street. This project is not included in the road construction and maintenance plan. In the next period, the justification of the project will be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15992	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15993	So it's the most dangerous roundabout in which I've seen but in the Republic of Croatia, otherwise in the Croatian roads Director Škorić put it as a lip project, it's a circular flow with Sinjian alka, but where there are no travelers, no superiors, but walking crossings, there's a desk for all 3 high schools in the morning, there's a chain of commerce where we go directly from the market Glavičko street to the young people's home to Konzum, there's traffic from Glavica, people from Glavica. Do you know what the order of INE is? From the circular flow in Sinj will be up to.../incomprehensible/... to my Suvač, to the Croats. Tomorrow it will be more difficult from the Croatians to Sinj a few kilometers than from Sinj to Split. For what? Because we don't, we don't have a VP, then we need to give you a solution for the VP, I'm giving you years of amendment. We're giving you the amendment, and you, what the tribal didn't do, they didn't do. [[Intruder: Which should have been done when radio rotor.]] It's a disaster, as long as we are, until there's an accident in that area. I'm telling you, the citizens are ready, I'll block the personally leading D1 if you don't solve it to Sinjska Alka. Here I give you a good period, the people give you a period because people are afraid for their children. There is a bus stop for school, for high school, for Glavica settlements and other villages of Brnaz, Turjak, in high school there is a high school center, there is a market of synjska, there is a Glavačka street. You made a circuit and distracted it with a living force by walking passage. So we have a good chance of having a young man's home to a military that's owned by a city and state to make a traveler. It's feasible that I'm your amendment and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. A traveller in Vukovar Street in the centre of Sinj below the circular one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15994	28th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15995	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of project documentation for the construction of the Kaštel bridge that would bring the city of Split and Kaštel, the Gulf of Kaštelan. The study is under way to conduct a link between Vučevica knots - State road D8 - Trajektna port Split. The work on the project should be brought into line with the strategic documents currently in the design phase. It's a master's plan to develop the city's port and.../incomprehensible/... with a new bridge to Kaštel. Document in the town of Split and master transport plan of the functional region of Northern Dalmatia in the authority of Split-Dalmatia County.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15996	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15997	The tunnel through Kozjak was a unique plan of a certain waste mob and circles to facilitate the delivery of garbage to, waste to Lečevica. Anything to do, not make a tunnel, i.e. Pardon the bridge from Split to Kaštel, via Kaštelan Bay to Kaštel, you are essentially not discharging anything. I was giving a little bit of a different explanation last year was more resistance, now that I gave this amendment to the bridge over the Kaštelan Bay of Split – Kaštela only in this way you are essentially opening a new exit and entry into Split towards a possible tunnel in Kozjak, according to a possible tunnel in Kozjak, and in this way that first works the tunnel on Kozjak you are essentially not discharging anything because when you come to Solin on a circular course, when you come to Solin from Sinj, Split, Imotski or I don't know it's just the same crowd there whenever you go, and regardless of the tunnel on Kozjak or not. The only new alternative direction to remove pressure from the roundabout from Solin towards Split is the new alternative direction, which is to bridge the Kaštelan Bay so that Kozjak will be considered at all, because otherwise stupidly done. Only if your party heads didn't buy land by the tunnel, it's very good for restaurants, you know it'll be great, it'll be good traffic, and otherwise it doesn't make sense, only if that's the point, then it's okay, that they sell what they bought for the kuna for several hundred thousand kunas. That's another thing, then, but the Splitian pool cili means we're also talking about Zagora, to relieve the triba to have a new exit, and that without new override means the Kaštelan Gulf is indecisive and will be told by all the experts. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15998	29th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u15999	Not exactly, the amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of the project documentation and the start of the construction of the Kukuzovac road – Koshuta. Croatian roads in the area are planning a joint road project from D60 to D1 at the location of Turjaci-Kukuzovac. For the project in question, a project task has been developed and a public tender for the negotiation of ideas and main projects, the implementation of geodetic and geotechnical research works and the establishment of a local and construction permit is pending.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16000	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16001	Mr. Tomo, Secretary of State Tomo, you said it wouldn't go very well. I'm sorry, the bridge, But he will, and he will, for no one is until dawn. [[Intruder: I didn't say it wasn't going to work, you misread it.]] Just if you were going to end up with your thought and if you were coming into my word no matter what it was against the Rules of Procedure, but I allow you when the chairman allows it, better... [[Intruder: You interpreted it wrong.]] I agree with that conversation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the construction of Kukuzovac-Košuta, I think the road from Kosuta is up to Kukuzovac and through Kukuzovac road to D1 to get from the city to the state road with this shorter 7 km is shorter, the Masla, Turks, Brnaza and Masla would be unloaded... and it's one of the better projects because everything that goes from Caporica to Trilj or Split and vice versa would be directed 7 km shorter, one very dangerous section of the road from Kosut through the Turjaks where we have many accidents, deaths and great pressure on the Masla intersection would be relieved and 7 km would be a shorter road with some stock, with this new project of a mile and a half, so I stood up for it 5 years ago when I could influence it, I went to the Croatian roads, they accepted it although not quite from the local level came some wonderful signal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm glad that it is now and in the spatial plan, I think we need to build that road as soon as possible, and that's what we've cut off, so I repeat 7 km from Trilj, the road comes from Kamenska and from Caporica on the highway, and that's the area of Kukuzovac, meaning to the economic zone, we're giving industry some significance to the bar because it's going to become a road of state importance, which would be very important if the highway came together, right, that's the story that the triba currently, that bypass prevents, I demand a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16002	30th Amendment, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16003	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a project documentation for the construction of 4 strips from the Sibenik Bridge to the Morin Bridge. This project is not included in the road construction and maintenance plan, following the implementation of the Njivica-Rokici-Mandalina project, the justification of the project sought will be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16004	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16005	It is this project in Sibenik from bridge to bridge is very important meaning, the proposed amendment that the project documentation of building 4 strips from Sibenik bridge to Morinsko bridge, an idea solution exists, you know that there is an idea solution, and that is what the knots that are in construction, Rokići or are in the plan of Njivice, with it being quite significant for the area as a whole, however, I am sorry that you refuse these all amendments, although you know that all I am saying is possible, however, that Oleg Butkovic simply realized that he is the minister of his juice and that most of the money must go exclusively to his hometown. And I totally understand that he has to prove himself, now I don't know what the reasons are, I saw that he likes to visit clubs in Slovenia 9, that he likes to play cards, but I don't know why he likes to... I don't know what he likes, it's another question now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the key question is why he was only struggling about his juices where he was mayor, the mayor, what he was doing and only in that area, which I am glad, but he can't make any money to Croatians, on Croatian roads, point there. He simply can't, and he doesn't have that right, he doesn't have that right towards Dalmatia, according to Lica, according to the Istrian, the Rijeka area, and so, he's the one who's got it all up there. Slavonia, and Slavonia will have one amendment, the other day when I was in Vukovar, respected citizens, people who watch this, when I went from Vukovar to Ilock, I really didn't see that road, it's awesome and horrible. Therefore, as far as Sibenik is concerned, these four strips from bridge to bridge, I ask to vote on this amendment because it means it is important for Sibenik and Sibenik-Knin County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16006	31st Amendment, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16007	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for reconstruction of the county road in the Muć municipality, from Muć to Velov. That stock is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16008	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16009	I don't know, I've set this well, I've given a few amendments, which I think are significant amendments, at the level of the meaning of county roads, but I'm going to tell you that counties are pointless, as much as they don't take care of their roads, and that's proof of these several roads, mostly this road from Muća to Milva, it's this Muć from... On this side of Sutina when we go, it's amazing how much that doesn't care about that end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once again, I repeat, Ilvo is a salary that is over 900 meters away, which means a salary that has no water supply, and apparently has no well-solved path. On the part of the Croats, however, this sonic part has a well-solved communication, as we say in St. Anne, we're not there, I just can't believe that from Split that way. And I know that there is great potential and that there are interested investors who would invest in sports tourism in facilities where athletes would get up at that height, they would not want to go to other countries to prepare, but there would be an area of Velva that is several tens of kilometers from Split itself, and fantastic is nature, air, we have near and river, we have a lake, we have mountains, but the county does not care. Dear Secretary, Tomo Mihotić, you worked in the county, you know that the county is a huge problem developing the Dalmatian Mountain, the island and the coast, that it's a catch factory, which doesn't care about the blood of those people who emigrate their children so that they can survive with either Velva or Ogorje, they only care about concessions and concession work is important to them. And whoever he's got in there, that's it. With this amendment, I wanted to say how pointless it is, you say it's not our jurisdiction. Well, you know what the county says, we don't care. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16010	The 32nd Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16011	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the purchase of land and the construction of road and parking from D1 to the cemetery of St. Peter in the area of the city of Sinj. That stock is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16012	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16013	I'm sorry they're not colleagues from the SDSS here. St. Peter is a cemetery in Sinj Orthodox cemetery we call it from miles in Sinj, which has no access route and people cannot decently bury their family members. I have also warned the access route for years as chairman of the local board and as city councilman and in the county and here you are and there is a cemetery beneath Boko's growth in the very suburbs of the town of Sinja where with one ransom, I am sorry that there are no colleagues of Pupovac, your colleague Tomo Mihotic coalition partner to help. Here I am asking you, help Milorad Pupovče in power with your HDZ, with HDZ buy that country from the people of private persons, allow you to get to St. John's Cemetery. Petra can come with dignity and bury the families means it's an Orthodox cemetery, but there are people and other confessions that, of course, bury themselves and don't need to share people in it, but not caring, not caring about national minorities, nor Milorad Pupovac here for these national minorities. Nor would he give this amendment, nor would he solve it, nor would the Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, who is familiar with this. He is familiar with this problem of access to the Orthodox cemetery of St. Peter in Sinj. He doesn't care if I live with these people I know about their problems, they have the same problems as our people, as well as people who mean Croatian or Serbian nationality that's irrelevant. And these people deserve a decent burial, and many of them are Croatian defenders, many of them Croatian defenders, but they don't care about representatives of national minorities for the misery of those people who can't decently bury their loved ones. I don't care about your coalition partner no, no. I demand a vote on the amendment to the Orthodox cemetery. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16014	The 33rd Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16015	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of the Privija-Han stock in the city of Sinja. The requested project is not included in the road construction and maintenance plan. In the next period, the justification of the project will be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16016	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16017	I'm glad you told me this out loud. Otherwise I put this into the budget before.../incomprehensible/the city of Sinja as an amendment, as.../incomprehensible/... it was accepted for making documentation. Privija-Han it is for my Glavics to hear, so Glavice the largest village that has no municipal status, slightly less, slightly more than 4,500 people who go to school in Han, it is a very specific bandage, a dangerous bandage where their children go across the bridge which is also on Han this has no width for vehicles and pedestrians so that you have disappointed me that it is not the entry into Croatian roads into the program of this footstep. Very dangerous, here are the Chiefs. Are you listening to the area of the Obrovec, Hana, which is.../incomprehensible/... Bajagic, listen to how he behaves, and at least you, Mr. Mihotic, are the secretary of state, and you know it as your pocket. Give me your hands, don't run from Butkovic, you've still brought our top sheet in part, I hope you can be bold and crack your hand on the table and say it's necessary for the safety of children, for the safety of children in Glavica. And the president of the Republic of Croatia is from my neighbouring village of origin, Zoran Milanovic, here I call on him to provide children. The only thing you will come to paint with him will be on the alco when he comes, Plenkovic and you and that is it. Where are the projects for his village? And that is the security of transport very important and that is why you have disappointed me because I know that you spend a lot of time in Sinj, a Chetin end that you do not have the strength to oppose this, this juicy mentality of Oleg Butkovic that only Croatia is what is around his house and that is that he would prove himself a rural lot. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16018	34th Amendment of Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16019	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of foot-and-mouth disease in the Sinj area along the D291 state road in Glava Gornja. The town of Sinj in collaboration with the Croatian roads ordered the construction of a project documentation of the construction of the legpost along with D291 shares of Šuća-Privija, which is expected to close the location permit. While the project documentation has already been developed for D219 Privija-Han and public procurement is expected to begin in the next investment cycle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16020	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16021	This state road that passes from Šuća to Privije through the village of Glavice is very dangerous. So along that road, it's a state road, a state character that goes up towards Bila Brig, according to Lagnje, towards Liv, towards the border crossing and on the right means when you go from Sinj to Han, there's a channel that's not covered. This channel that whatever vehicle gets into it or on foot he simply can't stay alive, but it's state-owned, it's quite flat and I can't understand that you don't accept it, so here's the President of the Republic of Croatia, so here's the reason why, if you don't care about 5,000 people in that area. Not only 5,000 people living in the Glavices and those children who do not have the opportunity to reach Sinj, but also allow people who are in traffic drivers not to get hurt. Because whoever lands off the road for whatever reason goes straight to the canal, the concrete canal. That concrete channel I think must be covered, there must be an opportunity to be nogost there because this village deserves it, this city of Sinj deserves it. I repeat, Glavice is the largest village in the Republic of Croatia that has no municipal status. 99% of municipalities are fewer per capita. The only thing you do neatly and thoroughly in Glavica are the miners, Stipanovic's Reef, and now Poljak's beam, pilate the mud, it's okay and nobody takes care of those people in the area. For this reason, once again for the largest village in the Republic of Croatia without the municipality status, I ask that the village of Glavica in Sinj be voted on by the state road 219, to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16022	The 35th amendment is Agent Ante Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16023	The amendment is not accepted. It is proposed to provide funds for the construction of the Rotor at D60 in the Head of Donjoy. Project documentation has been made, a building permit has been received and property-legal settlement is under way, and the procurement plan is to arrange for the execution of works.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16024	Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16025	This one. So this road road is, a critical point, you've been up, I think we've been at a joint meeting about this one, but the amendment that comes to us is also bound to this D60 road, so from the D76 and D60 nodes in Grubine to the very city of Imotsky is this road not quite solid. So if we eliminate this one and this one here mention the rotor, and... The ultimate need is, I believe, I don't know what peridou you're planning to be done with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, then I'm pulling this amendment. [[Intruder: In the procurement plan is thus going...]] [[We can't, we can't discuss.]] I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16026	You're withdrawing the amendment? Okay. [[I'm not even asking for a vote, okay.]] It's been withdrawn. Ante Kujundzic's 36th amendment is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16027	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of rotors and transport infrastructure on the road D76, D60 in Grubins. The project is under way, an idea solution has been developed to build a rotor based on which a conclusion is that one object needs to be torn down. After resolution of property-legal relations, it will begin with the production of project documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16028	That amendment is identical to this previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16029	No, it's not the same answer. Thank you, Chairman. So this is the status, this status, that this, this node actually got stuck on an idea project and that one residential building should be torn down, so the maltene is about something that's in effect, it's 10 years old. Ten years. I would like anyone to come every day at any time of the day to the mentioned crossing and to take the route of the city of Imotsky or from the city of Imotski road Zagvozd. So, all these people in the Imot region as well as in the rest of Croatia, and they're paying some kind of, some kind of road fee for the registration of a vehicle, this or that, this is a critical point, as I told you, here's my 37th year on the neck, since then. Since then. I will not withdraw this amendment and I will not give up on this one here. So I don't care what property-legal relations are in the process, he's 12 years old, that he has a 12-year-old living facility that's a problem, he can't remove, that in this area only the Grubs have 980 residents, only Grubs. Only the Grubs make an average of 12-14 thousand overnights in the season. From 12-14 thousand nights, so only the Grubs have cca 47, 48 villas with pool. Only the Grubs have a school of 60 students from 1st to 4th grade, so lively end, where this infrastructure as the main traffic, the traffic towards Zagvozd needs, I'm not going to give up, this amendment, I'm looking for a vote for it, and I think it's going to be an integral part of all future budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16030	The 37th Amendment of Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16031	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of the Omis Bridge. Croatian roads conducted a specialist review of the Omis Bridge, which established the state of the building. Project documentation for the rehabilitation of the Omis Bridge is under way at the end of the project will be planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16032	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16033	Thank you, Chairman. So again, we're back in 2020, so you're, I think you know, from down there you're, you know, the road we're talking about, I think it's D8,.../incomprehensible/... The Adriatic Highway. So you were driving down in the summer. In the summer you saw what it was like, you saw in summer how long it took you to drive from Split somehow to the Long War, to Omis or don't give God, to continue to Makarska, so you need to, minors all day. So, this bridge, maybe you've read it, seen the other day that it's not... that it couldn't get up or so on or so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's about one systematic carelessness, not telling you again, God forbid I tell you something, you've done your whole day today, you've earned your daily bread, you're going to sleep tonight, you're going to go back to sleep again tomorrow, unlike these people here, virtually, we don't see them, we don't know where they are, and obviously they're fucking at their workplace, the pay goes anyway, and they're going to be taking bills now, but good. As the election comes, I guess they'll sit there more often. So I personally think that the city of Omis, and I think you'll agree with me, is one pearl and one specific compound of some kind, some kind of ravine, of course and sea itself, as such. So, of course, we're adding a canyon of the Cetina River itself. You will agree with me that the existing highway which is definitely not the one that could satisfy the number of vehicles that are going daily on that route to Makarska, and I also believe that you are aware that this road has absolutely no alternative in case anything happens. Normal alternatives. So, I'm putting this amendment to a vote, and I'm asking for these funds to be rescheduled to that bridge in Omis, and finally it starts to look like something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16034	The 38th Amendment of Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16035	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of the fast road compound Zagvozd-Vinjani Gornji. I've already explained this in one of the previous amendments. Croatian roads have opened a tender for an idea solution and an environmental impact study, an idea project with the establishment of a local permit for the planned state road.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16036	Thank you, Chairman. The prime minister has promised that this road will be completed by 2023, a V3 variant of around 576 million kuna in 17km with one tunnel and I think 3 or 4 overpasses plus a combined road have been selected. [[Intruder: Dear Representative Kujundzic.]] So, as head of the municipality through which or actually through whose territory goes the largest section of this bypass the last initial meeting was essentially the only one on that topic was 2 years old, he's 2 years old. In 2 years, the minister responded that an environmental impact study was being done. I'll tell you one thing, and I'd like you to calculate it. So, since the chosen variant passes through the private particles in the good part of these private particles, family houses with pools are built with which people live. So, I'm not giving up on this amendment for sure, I'm not. I repeat, the prime minister promised that by 2023 Imotska Krajina would win this merger road, in January 2020. The only thing the Land of Imots got in the infrastructure terms from capital investments is that if I didn't know how much worse people would be without having a little pathetic is there St. Thanks to Dr. Elijah. Evey Sanader. After that, no capital project. You know, and I know that this is a capital project and that this is the second lung of the Imot region and Western Herzegovina, and I would also like you to tell me what you think it will be by 2030 at least. So I'm suing the vote for this amendment, you can tell me in private when I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16037	39th Amendment of Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16038	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the development of project documentation for the construction of the Fox tunnel. This project is not included in the road construction and maintenance plan. This project is in the context of building a part of what you were talking about in the Omis area's transport solution. It is currently agreed and works are being started to build a bridge across Cetina and a tunnel that will connect the existing road between Zakuc and Naklica. So Omis will have a bypass at that moment, will have the possibility of traffic from the Adriatic highway and from the roundabout direction of Srinin via Tugar, Naklica, to Zaklac. In the context of this, the city of Omis sought to build a fox tunnel, but no space-plan documentation was prepared based on which permits could be obtained. Therefore, by modifying the county spatial plan and the plan of the Omis municipality, these assumptions are being created, and then the tunnel can be talked about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16039	Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16040	Thank you, this chairman. So it's about another amendment that came from people living in that beautiful Cetina Canyon, in that beautiful Cetina Canyon, the Cetina River. You remember maybe a 45-day recovery that was planned alone by these stocks when people stayed cut off traffic from the city of Omis when they were now suggested to go to some kind of boat road of Omis and some kind of platforms of this kind. So whoever suggested this to them I suggest that he sit and ride in that boat and go. Look, which alternative you're going to find is definitely that I'm in this area, I'm definitely not a specialist we'd say, but what I'm going to talk about, and if it's necessary to scream, is that those people who live in that beautiful neighborhood get what they need, and that's the road. It's a road, I believe, and I see that you're aware of that, too. So, I'm going to put the amendment to the vote this time and here I thank you for your reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16041	MP Ante Kujundzic's 40th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16042	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the resolution of the D8 road to the Adriatic highway on the Dupci-Podgora stock. The part in question is carried out work on the recovery of the Podgora skating site. Works on the construction of superiors at the sanctum of Vepric and Sutikl's superior in Podgorica. The rest of the stock shall be carried out, where appropriate, maintenance work through the programme of regular maintenance of national roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16043	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16044	Thank you. I didn't even mention the mentioned stock, for example, even Seget before Trogir was desperate on the same stock, the disaster was the road the other day I went. By the way, I've been through this fatal stock a lot here, and I don't know if you're aware that by keeping it clear that it's costing me more and more seriously, but we're talking about investing in the area, which is pretty well-charged by the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand, if we ignore the access road from the highway itself and through the tunnel of St. Elijah, if we turn to this part of the Adriatic Highway, if you're traveling with it, here's the other day someone's lost my head, so there's supposed to be a root procedure, and not one form of maintenance. I think the problem is already that 20 years ago this stock is more or less with the configuration itself the same without.../incomprehensible/... investing in it anything to correct any slopes, deniveled etc., etc. So, I don't want the amendment to withdraw, I consider it personal, and I'm going to ask for a vote. This one, personally, I think, deserves a much, much better quality Adriatic highway than, for the beginning of the Omis road itself, Makarska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-23-0.u16045	Thank you very much. We'll stop today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:30 with a statement on the remaining amendments. Have a nice evening. Session interrupted at 21.43 p.m. CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.00 HOURS And like we said, we start at 1:00. [[Specially enabled.]] The first Club of Representatives of the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will speak. Here you go.
