ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9655	Honorable MPs, respected MPs. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 4th session with nine new points. Proposal for a supplement. ... What's that? It's from a video connection I'm guessing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, let's try to get it in order. The proposal to supplement the agenda has been submitted by electronic means. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is point 1 of the proposal for a law implementing Council Regulation 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the implementation of strengthening cooperation with regard to the establishment of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor by the Final Proposal of the Law. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 206th century is 1. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under points 2 and 3 of the proposed supplement, these are the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on subsidisation of flat loans and the Proposal for a Law amending the Penal Code? Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9656	Thank you. So I object to the emergency procedure for amending the Penal Code. We believe that such laws and changes are when they are and the smaller ones have to discuss in the Parliament and go into the regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9657	Okay, well, then we'll vote on that bill when we get the conditions when we'll have enough numbers. As for point 2, it becomes part of the agenda and takes urgent action. How appropriate. 225th century 5th of the written objections to the remaining points of the proposal for the completion of the agenda have not been determined that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 4th session. So we have to vote on this wheel when we have a quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9673	The next Club of Representatives is the national minority on behalf of whom the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9674	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would first like to congratulate everyone on the International Day of Human Rights. I know it's a day that's not an official holiday, but it doesn't diminish its importance. Human rights are often spoken of more recently than ever. But not all speak of them as affirmative, so I would remind them primarily with a few sentences of why human rights are even marked and what is its civilizational achievement. Today's date marks the International Day of Human Rights because it is the day when the UN General Declaration on Human Rights was signed in 1948. Then for the first time in mankind's history, the right of all people to life, freedom, security is recognised without any difference. The primary ideas 70 and a few years ago when this document was adopted were to prevent the horrors of World War II from ever happening again. We are fortunate to belong to the EU, to integration that has reached the highest in human history in terms of achieving and respecting human rights. When we look at our country according to publicly available publications, the Office of the Attorney General is the most common basis on which Croatian citizens have complaints about discrimination is national origin, religion and age in the fields of labour, employment, public information and the media, as well as justice and administration. When we look at discrimination in national origin, we must say that the level of discrimination is not the same when looking at individual national minorities. One part of the national minorities are fortunately living practically without discrimination from the majority population. On the other hand, certain national minorities have a strong sense of discrimination. And I belong to one of such national minorities, who is among the ranks of the largely discriminated on which I have already and often spoken in this assembly. Unfortunately, sometimes no national strategies nor any action plans produce enough results in the fight against discrimination against minority groups, particularly Serbs and Roma, as well as in cases of discrimination against gender minorities. Several years ago, an international organisation voiced concern about the state of women's rights in Croatia, more specifically due to the health system in Croatia. As stated, more and more restrictions are being made on access to a secure abortion which violates the right to receive the best available healthcare. On this occasion, it was imposed that Roma and children are members of the Roma national minority in the most favourable situation when it comes to accessing health care and as if every fifth member of the Roma national minority does not have health care. And every fifth Roma child goes to bed hungry. Certain, let's call it the trend of stagnation of the development of the human rights system in Croatia has been visible since the entry into the EU. In some ways, by entering the Union, Croatia has practically stopped by improving the legislative framework of human rights issues, and I believe that I do not have to remind myself that a particular referendum has taken a step back. When one of the basic intentions of the declaration was made to protect minorities and the rights of those with less power in society, but it is a worrying trend that we are slowly forgetting that intention and that minorities in today's Europe are increasingly exposed to pressures. The hate speech is the most present in the last year after the end of World War II and we are witnessing the spread of fear from others and different ones, which has greatly helped spread false news. Unfortunately, in Croatia, more and more are present in the system of calling for persecution of non-instinents and while this persecution has recently been limited to people who are working to protect established human rights of all citizens has started to be called persecution and those people who are not from these spheres, but who say or do something that conflicts with the ideas of certain groups. Hucak's messages that have been sent to the public in recent years from political speakers have led to a social atmosphere that normalises exclusion. We are witnessing that the negative tendencies that aim to take away and reduce rights, which we witness on a daily basis, are an expression of the democratic decision of citizens and citizens. But it's exactly the opposite because democracy can't work if it's not able to protect those in society who have the least power. And he mustn't forget it even though it's from bringing [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the declarations have been over 70 years. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9675	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9676	238. ma respond to Mr. Katasia's colleague, twice mentioned World War II and nothing more. I just have to remind him it's since '91. '95. was the Homeland War, that there were 16,000 dead and that it was one of the national minorities unfortunately rose against the Croatian people. And I would beg you to speak the truth then, don't skip the Homeland War, it's the foundation of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9677	Okay, you understand that it was a replica and you're getting a warning because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9753	Mr Bernardic, you are already in position, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, listening to this debate before that, you would think that if we didn't live in Croatia, everything was ideal. And the truth is this, that the health system is in disarray, in total chaos, and the pity that there is no president of the assembly because he probably ran away so he wouldn't have to answer the question why the debate on the work of headquarters pushes again at night and hides the truth from the people. And the truth is, the morgues are full. On May 26th in Split this year, the president of the most corrupt government in Croatia history as some self-loving boaster said, we won the crown. Now it's clear he's lost complete contact with reality. Croatia is the worst in Europe and by the number of dead and by the number of infected, the worst. Who's responsible for that? Plenkovic and his so-called. Command. From the beginning of the HDZ remote control, the headquarters that first closed Croatia's first lockdown after the HDZ elections, so they opened Croatia for parliamentary elections because it was the HDZ, and now they closed Croatia again but only after other elections in HDZ. So, all the other European countries did it long ago, a month ago, of course, this headquarters was waiting because it was purely political and making political decisions. Stay headquarters, as I call it, or a mobile pay phone, as the people's opinion on the headquarters has become clear, is supported by doctors and epidemiologists who have been on the government's payroll trying to convince the Croatian public for months that everything is fine, and it's not okay. Those who think differently tried to get kicked out of the government's scientific advice the other day. And that headquarters brings to the very least an awe - inspiring measure that has absolutely nothing to do with even common sense. Like a measure of church and shopping centers open, cafes and restaurants closed. From the beginning, and myself personally, pandemics have warned that there is no strategy to fight the virus, we have proposed a whole series of legal solutions to help workers, pensioners, disproved, healthcare professionals on the first line of defense against the virus. In June, I warned that the focal point of the epidemic was also in nightclubs, but also in schools, especially high schools, because high school students travel to work and live with parents but unfortunately with grandparents and grandparents in Croatia. I warned and showed projections of the IHME Institute, which said there would be 3,000 newly infected in Croatia in the autumn, today there are 4,500 of them. Some at that time found that showing the paper was funny, but today it is no longer funny for more than 2,000 black - turned families, who died their favorite. According to these projections of the world's leading institutes by the end of April, there will be more than 8,000 victims in Croatia, more civilian victims than there were civilian victims in the Homeland War. So it is clear that the situation has gotten out of hand. And that the system is collapsing confirms that no more contacts are recorded, but the person gets a message to call his contacts and people unfortunately who would probably be in Germany, Italy, but if you want Eastern Europe, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Poland's survivors die because of their health capacity. Besides, it is best witnessed by dramatic cry. Apparitions and warnings of doctors and nurses from Croatian hospitals who say it is difficult to deal with the crisis. Croatia is therefore the worst in Europe and the number of newly infected and the number of dead, the worst. And while some media are in the catering business, the morgues are full, there are no pictures from there. The hospital suits are unfortunately crowded and there are no pictures from there. Many people with pneumonia stay home, unfortunately dying at home. That information is not available now, but it will be available in statistics in six months. And my conquistadors, who's going to answer what we lose 70 people a day? Who's going to answer what two buses of the dead a day have? Who will answer and who will bear upon the soul thousands of dead, more victims than civilian victims of the Homeland War? Plenkovic, his headquarters and his government. And this number of dead and this failed fight against the pandemic is not a reference to him, so his European career is probably over. But given the difficult situation, it is not just a European career that the questioning and its prime minister's duties are about to begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9811	And now we're going to take a stand on behalf of the club of MPs and independent representatives. The first is Mr. William Matula, who will be the position of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9812	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask you that if you could at least apologize a little, I would like first of all to take advantage of my colleagues and colleagues' opportunity to congratulate you on December 10th International Human Rights Day. In Croatia today, just by the government's decision, precisely by the HDZ decision and by setting up a famous headquarters here is Mr. Minister still going out, I just wanted to say that the government and HDZ's decision is that you as the headquarters are a mask and that they don't have to make decisions and that in this way you are actually violating human rights instead of being here with 2/3 getting all the changes for what you have to do, then it would be, it wouldn't be a violation, it would be a restriction of human rights as is normal under the Constitution. This is how the government says so much, we take notice. They say we take note of what you bring to them as a headquarters, and at the same time all those advisors who are top experts throw out and there, and to that, absolutely and very well know it. This and that is why we now live in a systematic violation of human rights. For years, the civil society association has been talking about how all the ways in which human rights are being violated, and in fact it all started when Croatia joined the EU. From that moment on, it was no longer necessary, and from that moment on, if it is not on certain issues at the state of human rights stagnation, then it is mostly the collapse of that system that is not at all working. Social problems such as intolerance, discrimination, hate speech, hate-motivated violence are all solved solely reactively and dealt with very superficially. However, this crisis with Covid-19, which is also a major economic crisis, will further violate people's labour rights and that is what we really need to worry about. Human rights are also the right of workers to collective organisation, the right to adequate pay for their work. In this case, it is happening again because this assembly did not have the opportunity to limit human rights with 2/3, and to be temporary and to really focus on some degree we have all talked clearly about here, however, these labour rights are taken at random without any actual consultation of the profession even though the headquarters is being pushed into the first plan. What we're proud of is that we've signed and I call on you and the other fellow MPs you didn't sign, and that's among other things the secretary general of the international union who has more than 20 million workers, it's about that call to tax and to get Amazon to pay, especially now in this Covid crisis where there's a lot of wealth, a new billion, and people are doing nothing. So working progressive parliamentarians, anti-monopolitans, small entrepreneurs, activists gathered together to show Amazon that social dialogue and collective bargaining are not a threat but is an important tool and that is human law. Just as it is human right to live in a healthy, clean environment, however, what we will have to fight for especially as a green-left coalition with these labour rights, along with all other human rights, and that is the right to live in a healthy environment, the right to energy, enough energy from renewable energy sources. It's a human right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9813	Thank you very much and thank you Mr. Matula for remembering that date, we have no reason to congratulate you very much, yes, but we remembered that date. I, I hope that this morning it was warned that when the session began, and in any case anyone who has dealt with this problem for 17 years can't but be with you and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9980	The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative, Ivan Kirin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9981	Dear Vice President, welcome to all present and welcome Croatian citizens. We are witnessing permanent debates particularly initiated by the opposition about their dissatisfaction, and also by criticising that they would solve much better public-health problems in the pandemic that hit us. There's a lot of debates, but they haven't turned their attention to the great result of this government, and that's the recent beginning of LNG terminal work. The project is of strategic importance not only for Croatia but also for the whole of Europe, as the terminal will ensure the security of natural gas supply, reduce dependence on Russian and Arab gas and boost competitiveness. Energy continues to play a key role in global politics. A country that can offer to use such a piece of infrastructure comes to a strategic advantage. Last year, a new record was set in the global trade of LNG, reaching nearly 355 million tonnes, which is 13% higher than 2018. The largest growth has been recorded in Europe. The construction of the LNG terminal in the public was long discussed in July 2015 by a strategic project for Croatia, we know for whose governments the entire floating terminal project was accompanied by the dissatisfaction of environmental associations, parts of locals and local political leaders who expressed concern about possible air pollution, sea and economic viability of the floating terminal. In 2018, the Committee on Environmental Impact Assessment adopted an opinion on which the project is acceptable for the environment, with the application of environmental protection measures and monitoring programmes. Strong support for the construction of a floating terminal was given by Sade, or Senator Biden, and the project is included in the list of European projects of common interest because it has strategic and geopolitical importance for the EU. It will affect the strengthening of Europe's energy market and greater security of gas supply to Europe. On the basis of this, the EU has approved 101m euros in grants for the construction of a floating terminal. Another 100m euros of grants were provided by the state, and the rest of HEP and PLINACRO founder of LNG Croatia, which is the project bearer and manages the terminal. At the same time, it started to purchase a ship for incineration and storage. The most favourable offer was Golar Power Limited, which offered the conversion of the existing LNG tanker into a ship for the deployment and storage of 159.6m euros. The conversion was made at a shipyard near Shanghai and the ship arrived in Croatia. And 21. The November one from Viktor Lenac Shipyard sailed to the Spanish port of Sagunto, where he loaded the infused natural gas for the test run of the terminal. On December 1st, the LNG Croatia ship arrived at the terminal location and successfully bonded. Since 2 December, activities have started with the release of terminals into operation, which includes testing of the ship's systems and all systems on the mainland of the terminal to begin with work 1. January 2021. The ship is 280 meters long, the storage space in 4 containers is 140,000 spatial meters. There are three incineration units aboard the ship that will operate at the capacity of 300 thousand spatial meters per hour or annually 2.6 billion spatial meters. The return on investment is expected to rent 0.52 billion spatial metres of natural gas per year, and the annual operating costs of the terminal are estimated at 13m euros. The terminal capacity is in three years 100% and from 2024 to 2027 is already 84%. With regard to the suspicion of the economic viability of the terminals of some lobbies, the LNG terminal project has been brought to an end, and its work will answer possible questions about the cost-effectiveness and safety of environmental impact. There were no incidents on ships or floating terminals, and Croatia is currently listed in the strategic energy infrastructure of the world. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] She has increased her energy autonomy and we must thank the government and the prime minister for not bowing to their opponents. May the good Lord protect you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u9982	Thank you. Let's not exceed the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10037	Mr Davor Dretar will present the position of the National Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10038	Nice greetings from respected colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chairman, are you familiar with these names, Martin Josip Kocijan, Krešimir Nežmah, Patrick Pavić, Dorian Lendvaj, Vito Anić, that I understand and I assumed that they were not, so let me introduce them to you. In August of this year, the first four won 4 medals at the Central European Informal Olympics in Hungary and Martin Josip Kocijan Bronc, Patrik Pavić and Krešimir Nežmah silver and Dorian Lendvaj gold. They have now repeated these great successes at the Romanian Master of Informatics International Competition, which is considered one of the world's most difficult and demanding competitions in information circles. Our team, consisting of Lendvai, Pavić, Nežmah and Anić, won 4 seats, and the gold medals were won by Ledvay and Pavić, with the respected young Mr. Dorian Lendwai taking an absolute first place in the competition of 200 top world informers. Congratulations and team leader to professor of Zagreb XV. The high school of popular MIOC Mr. Nikola Dimitrovic. We are proud of our youth, these guys who have shown that in the future we will be able to side by side of the most information-developed countries of the world and be an inevitable factor in creating new information and technological solutions without which there is no quality progress of our homeland, but also civilizations as a whole. I still have to ask a question. What are we going to do as a state to keep these great young people in our homeland? How to enable them to continue their professional and human development in Croatia? Let's look at the current state of the IT sector in us. Many companies have achieved significant successes, both domestically and on the increasingly growing world market, but we must acknowledge that such successes are primarily due to personal talent and with it the incredible will, perseverance and desire for the success of individuals, and at least organised state incentives or well-designed policies. The company Infobit became the first domestic company worth more than a billion dollars. It includes serious companies such as Infinum, Q Softer, Im Cloud, globally popular Roman cars and many others. And in particular, I would like to point out the company that recently occupied the attention of all of us, the company Defense Code. Namely, their owner refused the award of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce "Golden Kuna" for the best entrepreneurial post-startup project on the grounds that he does not want to participate in a ceremony organised for them by an unnecessary organisation, and that they are not allowed to buy ropes with sandwiches and a glass of champagne. Let me quote Mr. Cadic, co-owner of Different Scott. "The chamber is what it is, the product of the past, lacks democracy and transparency. She's not interested in the interests of membership. She's interested in their own interests. They live apart from the economy that they represent because they live on a monopoly basis. It would be a turn if the chamber really thinks it's worth putting on the market with the others." I would leave you all in this assembly and the Croatian public thinking as far as possible. We must be aware that Croatia is a tourist country and that it is necessary in a quality way to combine agricultural production that will feed millions of tourists who will come to us. But only a combination of science and technology with quality management of human potentials is the only correct way to achieve an educated, clean and rich Croatia. It is our duty and duty as Parliamentarians to watch over the future of young people who are the future of all of us. Of course not only mentioned informers, roboticists or programmers, but also future athletes and athletes, doctors and doctors, auto mechanics and bakers, lawyers and builders, carpenters, fishermen, officers, soldiers and many others who want to live here and raise their children in a stable and well-leaded state where they will be able to live a life of decent man. And for the end, I'd like to ask you for a big incentive. They are called Kocijan, Pavić, Nežmah, Lendvaj and Anic. They are the future of our homeland. We can give them a big round of applause, please. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10039	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10096	Next, the next Club of Representatives will be the IDS on behalf of which the respected representative Katarina Nemet will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10097	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, allow me first to congratulate the International Human Rights Day on my behalf. Today I want to warn of an absurd in the unfortunately sea of absurds in our country, and this is about the fastest finger. I believe that many of you have heard of this notion, you're very likely to tie it to some quizzes and everything is fine while that fastest finger remains in the sphere of television entertainment and rabbies. But when the fastest finger decides on far more serious things such as competitions for the award of EU funds, then it is no longer really fun. In fact, believe it or not, in Croatia, such tenders are also discussed according to the method of the fastest finger, or according to the order in which applications are received, and not according to other relevant criteria of quality, efficiency and relevance of the notified project. What is impossible in some regulated European countries in Croatia is reality and practice. In a specific case, it is the so-called Covid-19 calls for civil society organisations to help them overcome this unprecedented pandemic crisis. But in vain all their efforts to prepare and write competition projects, in vain all their brains, experience, hours and hours of work and all the other resources that invest in the competition application. In the end, European money will be given the fastest, not the best projects. In other words, in Croatia it doesn't matter how high-quality a project you have prepared and how well it could bring it to the community. No, I don't. When we share European money, we hold up to speed, so more important than a quality project is the speed of the internet connection that connects you to the competition application or distance from the post office if you send the documentation by mail. In particular, I would like to stress that this raises some of the principles that must be respected when the EU funds are allocated. There is, above all, the transparency of the allocation process. In fact, a number of ambiguities have been observed in some previously published calls. When, for example, in just a few seconds from the moment the application was possible, a quota was already prescribed for projects that entered the review. Furthermore, this is the principle of equal opportunities for the allocation of funds. With this principle who first his girlfriend is not all associations are equally available funds. First of all, not all have the same conditions and cannot participate equally in this absurd race over time. It should also be said here that the Council for Civil Society Development has, on several occasions, made critical conclusions to certain authorities of the state administration which have called for a tender under this principle. And I should probably not even mention how dissatisfaction with end-users, civil society associations that are complex when this approach is definitely discriminatory and must be changed. With this topic, I would like to briefly point to another problem. In practice, it has been shown that sometimes the capacities of the authorities in charge of monitoring the implementation of funded projects are questionable. It happens, for example, that one spender by one controller is acceptable, and the same coster with another controller is not. The same happens with documents that prove the costs of the activities carried out. In one case, they're worth it, not in the other. Completely illogical and incomprehensible. And let me get this straight. These indifferences and indeterminateities that I spoke of were really unnecessary stone interference and quite rightly cast doubt on the credibility and purpose of such competitions. After all, this also results in a questionable distribution of public money, which seems to be a pity not only to the civil society sector but to our entire community, and I believe it is not in anyone's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10098	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10122	Your Honor and I will speak of human rights on this day and that fundamental human right, the right to life and the poorest. Five years ago, at the initiative of the Croatian pensioners, a decision was made for pensioners with a monthly income of less than 1500 kuna to pay 50% and 40 kuna of HRT's fee, respectively. The Croatian Supervisory Authority has tied the decision on a reduced subscription to the date, so that only pensioners who are registered as monthly tax bonds and have less than 1500 kuna on the day of their decision. We point out that the decision, mentioned by the Supervisory Board, discriminates against all pensioners who retired after 12 October 2015. The decision shall also discriminate on the basis of age between low-income pensioners and other citizens with the same and lower incomes. In February 2020, HSU sent in its procedure a bill requesting that all subscribers with monthly incomes of less than 1,500 kuna be fully exempt from payment of HRT's fee while subscribers who do not pay more than 2,340 kuna per month pay half. The proposal wasn't discussed in the last session, so we re-routed it to a procedure with customized census of 2,500 kuna. Our proposal is just, realistic and enforceable, human and socially sensitive. However, the government rejected such a proposal at its session yesterday. I will state their arguments and try to further clarify our position. The Supervisory Board may, without amendments to the law, establish privileges for the categories sought. That is what he did, when we here in the Croatian Parliament collected 50 signatures for the lady who had less than 800 kuna pensions and, with the media pressure and opinion of the attorney general, changed her decision but only for that person. Can you imagine that, just for that person, which is with the others. Secondly, the government should provide funds between 80m and 98m kuna for the implementation of this law. The truth is I'm used to all my proposals being fiscal interference and weight. I'm trying to get something orderly into a messy system, some honesty in an unfair system, but I'm always in the role of someone pulling a sleeve and a wire. I know that difficult times and challenging times and all the proposals for social measures will be seen as wires, but whoever my dears want finds a way. We saw in the projection budget there were neither scary nor memorable cuts, but as always, the poorest and most vulnerable were always left out, and you promised us before the elections. You who voted, remember what they promised you. It says in the EU, public media funding is a rule of some form, not an exception. A stable fee as a continuous source of income allows for a certain degree of public service independence from the State. Do public service independence have to ensure the poorest in Croatia, under the threat of enforcement? People, where we live. The truth is we like to call on the EU when it suits us, all of us, someone smart once said we can't live as though it were in Germany and the people as in the African village. This could also be translated, we cannot receive Croatian salaries and pensions and follow the EU way of life. And we're not just following, we're getting there. I remind Slovenia 8,000 kuna average salary 95 kuna tax, Ireland 24,000 kuna average salary 99 kuna tax, France 17.000 kuna pay 86 kuna tax, Croatia 6,400, 80 tax. Croatian pensions and salaries cannot bear European prices of directors, fees and food, they simply cannot. Given the large number of inhabitants living in poverty, the Republic of Croatia needs to establish a more just approach, it must set limits below which it cannot go. This rejected proposal is part of our strategy against poverty with approach, do not take the poorest and those with higher incomes can pay even more I'm not asking you to give, just don't take those who barely have. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10142	It is now up to Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj, who will present the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and independent representatives. We'll have her in that role. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10143	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps more than ever earlier this year it is important to remind ourselves that today we are marking International Human Rights Day. On today's date 72 years ago, the General Declaration on Human Rights was signed as a common criterion of achievement for all nations and all states. At that time, for the first time in mankind’s history, the right of all people to life, freedom, and security is generally recognised without distinction. The Covid crisis in front of the whole world has challenged the inconceivable health, economic and social consequences, and in this test of global responsibility and solidarity, human rights have just become the weakest link. The health crisis is growing into a crisis of democratic order, the rule of law and human rights. While states have established independent committees and courts to ensure the protection of human rights is equally important for each individual. The task of each of us and of course the community as a whole is to work on building a society of equal opportunities and equal access to fundamental human rights regardless of the diversity, race, sex, language, religion, national or social origin or any other basis. Unfortunately, the general state of society shows that culture and human rights policies are becoming less and less important. The improvement of human rights in Croatia during 2109 has stagnated. This results in a negative trend in political and institutional neglect of human rights work. In addition to all the efforts that have been made so far, the creation of public policies in the field of human rights is lagging behind, and we bear witness daily to their violation and even to the collapse of previously reached standards. I'll just mention some of them. The devastating fact is that nearly a quarter of Croatia's population lives at risk of poverty, resulting in the threat of an entire range of human rights. The availability of health services remains unevenly represented and inaccessible, as seen in these pandemic times. Also, a special inequality is seen by women and men. Women are also sub-represented in leading positions. Women are still more difficult to employ, and it is most often in the weaker paid activities resulting in lower pensions. It is devastating that, despite the legal obligation, almost 25% of the committed candidates in last year's elections for the European Parliament did not meet the provision on the minimum representation of women of 40%. These are just some of the worrying data on the state of human rights in our country. History teaches us that fighting for freedom, equality and fundamental human rights never ceases. That fact may have never been more relevant than today when we face the challenges of a global pandemic. It is therefore particularly important to remind once again today that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10154	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSLS and Reformers on behalf of whom the respected representative Dario Hrebak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10155	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today I will say something about the state of sport currently in the Republic of Croatia. Based on the initiative for sport and health against the crown, which has gathered the support of 40,000 athletes, recreational athletes, all those who love sports, who find it difficult to drop everything that is happening today in sports in Croatia. We all know what the situation is about the crown. We all understand the decisions that had to be made in order for this whole situation to be said I would still normalise and to reduce the impact of the virus. However, today, athletes except for clubs competing in the first and second rank of senior competition, and in the first level of competition in junior competition at national level and team sports, and training and competition of top athletes, so athletes and athletes 1, 2nd and 3rd categories in individual sports are all others today in some way I would say status quo. The current measures we all know end, and very likely they will extend, at 21. 12. The citizens, of course, are extremely dissatisfied. Especially those citizens who are recreational, athletes who hold to sports who love sports, because of course they are probably some of them in these 40,000 signatories, certainly that the crown will last, very possibly by next year. We'll see how it goes with the measures. But on the other hand, a number of facts contribute to the fact that we should perhaps consider what to do with athletes, recreational athletes, and whether they should in some way be excluded from these measures that are currently in place. I'm doing this clean, and I want to encourage this debate to get through the voice of the initiative and of all those who signed this initiative. We all know that sport is one of the key factors in fighting the crown. All healthcare professionals confirm this because, of course, sport practice raises immunity and simply strengthens that immunity and then each human organism is much more resistant to the virus itself. The World Health Organization recommends regular practice of sports activities in order to have positive effects on the psychophysical health of individuals. In the sport, the epidemiological measures that athletes had adhered to were not the corners of the crown, at least so far, and some were quite the opposite of the crown itself. Sports clubs are ready to reorganize sports activities, adapt them to the current epidemiological situation. For example, it is a floating club of the coast that states that they have nothing against stricter measures, that they can work in smaller groups. There are several swimming pools available and all can be organised in a way that can maintain training and training times. The Quarner Athletic Club also believes that the stadium is large enough to be able to use for example for athletes, who do not have to have some close contacts. On the other side of the locker room and all that can be disinfected. So there is no need even in some cases to use locker rooms, since there is no contact between groups. All the equipment is constantly disinfected. For this reason, we believe that in some subsequent set of measures we still need after 21. 12. Consider, though, that for some sports, let's say I also think of tennis where, of course, without a game of couples, not certain competitions can be organised, but really some recreational encounters. Because I really think it might be less of a threat than people staying home and maybe hanging out. I think this way it might be a more striking fight against the crown than it would be for people to stay home. I think we should think about it anyway and join this initiative of athletes and recreationals, all those who love sports that strengthen their body through sport. It does not suck that saying “in a healthy body, a healthy spirit. ” So I really believe that this initiative should be considered, especially by 40,000 signatories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10156	Thank you very much. The next club is the representative of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10170	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Yesterday was the International Anti-Corruption Day, but yesterday I didn't particularly talk about it, nor did I mark it. I will talk about it today as well as many other days because of the fight against corruption, the reasons why we are so defeatedly unsuccessful in this fight as well as the suggestions on how this change should be spoken every day of 365 days a year. The fight against corruption is not a mere repetition of empty passwords and phrases like that when Branko Bacic says HDZ and the government of Andrej Plenkovic are staging a fight against corruption. Those are words that make anyone who has at least a grain of honesty inside of him creep. The fight against corruption is neither the shouting of populist calls to catch a thief, nor the proposal of a law that sounds good among voters, but in practice they are either inconclusive or do not bring in what they bear in their name or are, by their own effect, weak as it is calling the Law of Origin of Assets and many others because the Tax Administration is not designed for us so that we can implement what that law should mean. The fight against corruption is not even spectacular arrests that, after the initial euphoria in the media, never experience their trial and epilogue successfully completed the process. In organized societies, the successful fight against corruption is led by reducing its potential to the least possible measure by preventing it from being prevented, so that 99% can be prevented in time so that the remaining one percent can get through a successful and well-designed functioning judiciary, through the repressive part of the system. But that's not with us. There's no effective prevention either. There's no will to move anything from the dead spot where we're stuck and stopped. The progress made in EU accession has been wiped out in the past few years by the government of Andrej Plenkovic as a feather move with such ease as he has in his time ordered his secretary to relieve some ministers, past the procedures and beyond the powers prescribed by the Constitution in the Croatian Parliament. There are several moves that have been euthanized, marginalized and weakened by key anti-corruption bodies. And as someone who fought corruption was on the front line of defence among the infantry because preventative bodies such as the Commission of Conflict of Interest are, so infantry can tell the painful truth and that's that we don't have a system. We do not have strong enough, meaningful enough, defined institutions, so the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia comes down to the tormented and sizif's work often to the isolated and lonely battle of a man who did not bend his spine against the system, mainly knowing that this battle was lost in advance. And I dedicate this speech to them, to ordinary people who gave their little, and in fact an immeasurable contribution to not sinking like society to the bottom. Yesterday I was talking about heroin in sports. Today I am saying that our greatest heroes are fighting corruption not those who should be in their position, according to their functions and duties. They're not the leaders of the PNUSKOK, the Jump, the DORH. They are not even highly respected judges who often settle on the wrong side of the door of an illegal and obscenity club. No, I don't. The heroes against corruption today are ordinary people who have not allowed themselves to be discouraged by a corrupt system in search of the truth. I will mention only some of them who, by their work and pawnage and social engagement, have saved us from shame that we are not as bad as our institutions could actually be. The press comes first. Our biggest affairs are not revealed by competent institutions and bodies, but by investigative journalists who are very often risking their lives. Let's remember the Borg affair. Let us remember how the affairs of Franjo Lucic and his business were discovered. Let us remember Tomislav Tolusic, Lovra Kuščević, Milin Kujundzic, Goran Marić and others. The other person I think should be praised for fighting corruption is Boro Nogalo. It is also a visual example of what happens to people who have knowledge, professional experience, international references and how they pass when local and state powers aim at its result and its success by treating it as their prey. And the third person I would like to commend is Victoria Knezevic, a Dubrovnik lawyer who designed an initiative aimed at improving the quality of local public administration work. She designed a portal that serves an evaluation that is seen as a valuable contribution to improving the quality of public service everywhere in Europe. I hope it won't be discouraged that the Personal Data Protection Agency has ordered her to be shut down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10171	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10185	New, i.e. The proposed law, which is in the public debate on seeds, improves the i.e. The use is prohibited, the possibility of using seeds of domestic, traditional in production is reduced. I'm glad the Minister of Agriculture is behind the pillar to hear this. So instead of having this crown crisis of all the shortcomings that we have improved domestic production, we have encouraged domestic production because Croatia is not self-sufficient and all the legal initiatives that I have given in the past term, and we can link it to the strategy that we discussed, the strategy of the anti-cancer framework, in the Republic of Croatia is one of the causes of food. Croatia is not self-sufficient, 7 days to close the border would have nothing to eat, and 800,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, 800,000 hectares. Only in Dalmatia in 4 counties do we have 200,000 acres that can be fed by 11 million kunas, 11 million people. When we talk about seeds then we tribbam, we say that I gave and the past term here, and this mandate is in the glyphosate ban procedure, using the glyphosate of Monsanto product, and we see that even with the new proposal of the seed law and reproductive materials, the fruit materials are suited to Monsanto's obvious sponsor of this government because Monsanto, who created seeds that are resistant to glyphosate, and we know that glyphosate is one of the major problems that creates this source of tumors, is the poison that he forbids, but the EU discusses it, but Austria has already banned the use of glyphosate in the Lower House. This new bill of law, which is now in the public debate, is opposed by associations dealing with, of course, the OPGs, the organic production, and we rather than encouraging the seed bank to preserve our traditional production, not importing harmful GMOs, I and gave the law the first one that was in this House. No one had the courage until then. He's been here more than ever and he hasn't been accepted. I am sorry that from the left, right, democracy, the sovereigns did not then accept that law of mys on the ban on GMOs, imports, transport, planting and production, and of course trade. We have a clean ecological land. We have an increased number of tumors, an increased number of cancers in the Republic of Croatia, and we have unprocessed land and tourism large with tourism that is primary in Croatia, and in fact it should be agriculture and tourism should be additional to us, giving us additional value by selling our agricultural products, not that we pomirare or tomatoes import from Italy, Spain, so you can keep them in the house for 2 years are always the same. The color it came in, that's right. So we see that we have a problem with pigmeat, that the pigs that are fed by glycosate, a soybean that is... Imports into the Republic of Croatia and I see that pig farming is going down, it's becoming uncompetitive, and it needs to be helped with our pig husbandry, our cattlemen. [[You don't understand.]] However, this cheap production that has been supported through corporations, huge corporations that produce seeds and, of course, funds so that these funds can actually survive at this point, the Croatian government is doing nothing. While the European Union has major conflicts lobbyistically to maintain glycosate, to encourage GMO production and to destroy domestic production. Once again, seed is a key and a national interest and seed is reproductive material. We need to protect and build a bank and fight to the end these bad laws that destroy domestic production.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u10186	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24395	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I now urge the Minister of Health of my colleague Beros to join us because we are starting with: - Proposal for a national strategic framework against cancer by 2030. I have two hands in the air, my colleague Bencic and my colleague Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24396	Your Honor, I thank you. We are looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club because we want to point out once again that today is the International Day of Human Rights and we want to congratulate it on all of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24397	Comrade Bencic, just a minute. So you can't ask for a break for that reason, so the break is required on the agenda point You'll connect. [[Bencic: Yes, yes, I'll connect, now I'll explain.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24398	So, given that the first item of the agenda has much to do with the issue of access to health and health, and that in the midst of this root crisis in which the whole world has been found many have lost adequate access to health, we are thinking first of all about those who are suffering from malignancies that we are talking about today. But we also want to point out that this day, this time, we want to dedicate Human Rights Day to all those, all those healthcare professionals and workers who daily risk their lives on the front line of defense against the crown of the crisis, but also to all those who try and over time and, in fact, by limiting their human rights, contribute to ensuring the right to the health of all others who suffer from other diseases. We would also like to point out that in this crown, the crisis is particularly threatened by those who, apart from health, impaired health, are among those who are poor, who have lost their jobs in the midst of this crown crisis or who cannot live with their work with dignity. So we wish for them all today and congratulate them on the Day of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24399	Okay. The apartment will be approved. Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24400	Your Honor. We are looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club on the fact that today is the anniversary of the death of our first president Dr. Franje Tuđmana, whom this Parliament today in a manner consistent with as we consider marked, and HTV as our public service has put the mockery today in the evening with the film "What state is this?" We want to protest that, and that's why we're asking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24401	Okay, that's not why you're taking a break. You know that. There were delegations that have now laid a crown on the grave of the first Croatian president in Mirogo, so it is marked that day and will be marked properly. We're going to take a 10-minute break, then, based on the demands of a colleague from the Green-Left block. It's 9:38 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 9:48 A.M.]] As I announced first item today: - Proposal for a national strategic framework against cancer by 2030. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Law on the Strategic Planning and Development Management System of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I would now ask the proposing representative to give an additional explanation of the proposal for a national strategic framework against cancer by 2030. With us is the Honorable Minister of Health, Willy Berosh. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24403	Dear Mr. President HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. The number of people suffering from malignant diseases is constantly increasing both in Croatia and globally. The World Health Organization predicts that the number of new people worldwide will increase by 18 million in 2018. at 29.5 million a year in 2040. While the death toll will rise from 9.5 to 16.4 million a year. Cancer is the second most common cause of mortality following cardiovascular disease and is responsible for 27% of deaths in the Republic of Croatia in 2018, leading cause of mortality in persons under 65 years of age and is responsible for 50% of female deaths and 35% of male deaths. Over the last 15 years, an average of 12,000 cases of invasive cancer have been diagnosed in men and 10,350 cases in women, although compared with other countries in Europe, Croatia is the country of the average incidence of malignant diseases, mortality rates are among higher in Europe. In most European countries, mortality rates have fallen and so has Croatia, especially in the last few years, but the decline trends are still less pronounced than in other comparable countries. The government of the Republic of Croatia has cared for the improvement of these circumstances. There are numerous risk factors in the development and development of malignant diseases, family history, genetic predisposition, life-style factors such as smoking, alcohol, malnutrition, overweight, insufficient physical activity, radiation exposure, professional exposure, exposure to carcinogens in the environment, some infections, immunodeficiency and some medicines. According to WHO, 30 to 50% malignant tumours can be prevented. The epidemiological situation associated with malignancies may be improved by measures of primary, secondary and tertiary prevention and by a series of measures and activities stemming from the proposal for a national strategic framework against cancer by 2030. Primary prevention of malignancies implies public education on risk factors for the same, risk elimination or reduction of exposure, as well as the preservation and improvement of the general health status by adopting healthy life habits. The primary prevention measures referred to above shall be applied before the disease develops with a view to its timely prevention. Raising the level of awareness of the above factors in society as a whole is a continuous process, and it should also be implemented among healthcare professionals and professional groups that play a significant role in society and should also be adapted to all age groups of the entire population. Strengthening public awareness of the role of risk factors for malignancies is one of the key steps towards reducing the number of newly ill. Treatment of most forms of cancer is more successful if cancer is diagnosed in the early stages. Survival rates for a range of common crops and cancers can be greatly improved by early diagnosis and treatment according to the most modern knowledge. The secondary prevention therefore includes early detection and sampling of the so-called "Second Prevention". screening. Early cancer detection involves identifying the first symptoms by the patients and setting a timely diagnosis by the doctor. Early cancer detection is best achieved through organized programmes. The target population groups of the appropriate age at the correct intervals are called for checks for hay cancer which can be effectively treated, and then it is mandatory to monitor the course of further treatment procedures and endpoints. In this area, we want to improve the ratio between diagnosed cancers at baseline and late stage cancer by 20%. For all herds of cancer that are being carried out, these are breast cancer, uterus neck cancer, colon, and lung cancer. We are also planning to consider possible implementation of new breakthrough programmes based on a scientifically sound assessment of their effectiveness. One of the major problems of the oncology system is the slow and fragmented diagnostic process. The prerequisite for optimal initiation of the diagnostic process is good education of doctors within primary health care, knowledge of guidelines and consistent use at all levels of healthcare with the aim of ensuring optimal conditions for monitoring patients. All healthcare professionals involved in this process should be provided with adequate education and knowledge of procedures. Concomitant diagnostic procedures and optimal monitoring of patients during and after treatment constitute the basis of successful treatment. In order to optimise diagnostics and oncological treatment in the Republic of Croatia with existing resources, it is necessary to significantly improve the organisation of oncological care. Multidisciplinary approach and the development of multidisciplinary oncology teams are the most effective way to rapidly improve the success of cancer treatment. Therefore, they need to become bound. The benefits of multidisciplinary work in oncology should be accepted as a norm because they are considered crucial in providing optimal oncology care. It has also been shown that a multidisciplinary approach of care leads to a more thorough decision-making process, can increase survival, shorten time needed to determine the correct stage of disease and reduce waiting time at the start of treatment. The forecasts for most cancers improve, making it more and more important for cancer patients to have the best chance of working well in all life’s roles. An increasing number of patients survive cancer, but the consequences of their illnesses and treatments are obstacles in their daily lives. Rehabilitation measures, psychological, social and health care must be initiated from the start of treatment to the end of life. Self - respect, general physical and mental well - being, must be maintained as long as possible with the help of rehabilitation. Rehabilitation is suitable for improving the quality of life of patients, not just the extension of life span. According to indicative estimates 50% of cancer patients need rehabilitation, its aim is to reduce the harmful consequences of disease and side effects of cancer treatment by encouraging patients to take more active access to their treatment by strengthening their own ability and faith in themselves and helping their families to understand their needs, and thus changing the social environment's attitude towards cancer. It is necessary to raise awareness of the psychological problems of patients within the medical community, but also in the wider social environment, and to develop a system for early detection of mental problems and their management. Active involvement of medical and sports specialists is needed, and a multidisciplinary approach in the structured process of return to work. Oncological patients have the right to work and adapt their jobs and working conditions to their capabilities. Malignant diseases are a complex problem, both from a clinical and from a public health perspective. During treatment, individual access to each patient and his family is important, and on the other hand, access at population level should be equal for all. The results are only possible by including experts from different profiles in the field of health, but also from other sectors, and with the support and encouragement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is important and broad social support, as well as support from the NGO sector or associations of citizens. Education, oncology research, palatable care, psychosocial rehabilitation, radiotherapy, systemic oncology treatment, psychological support, paediatric oncology, rare tumors, malignant blood cell tumours are just some of the areas covered by this strategic document. Realisation of planned measures and activities from the National Strategic Framework against Cancer will contribute to the availability of quality oncological care, which means diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation. Then access to quality oncology databases, quality control, and ultimately sufficient investment in all aspects of oncology, from education, equipment procurement through health research to treatment and supportive symptomatic care for cancer patients. Visions and objectives in this document focus on comprehensive monitoring, prevention and treatment of malignancies, including and unification of tertiary prevention measures and optimalisation of healthcare for cancer patients. Strategic objective of the National Strategic Framework against Cancer by 2030 aims at improving the health of citizens throughout life, reducing the incidence and mortality of cancer, and extending and increasing the quality of life of cancer in the Republic of Croatia to Western European countries. Maintaining the health of our citizens is our greatest wealth and supply for the future. This proposal proposes that HS adopt the proposal of the National Strategic Framework against Cancer by 2030. Finally, I would also like to thank the members of the Committee for making this strategic framework and all the experts who participated in the work of the 21 working groups, who were over 130, for their contribution to the development of this strategic and important health document. Here are the honourable MPs and MPs. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24404	Thank you Minister, stay put since, here at the pay phone, since we're going with the replicas, it's our first order of business, Colic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24405	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, today is a big day because we are discussing a document involving hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens. I am interested, in this time of covid epidemic, you have repeatedly stressed that oncological patients should not wait, given that KB Dubrava, which is an important oncology center, has been converted into a covid hospital, can you briefly tell us how the call center works with hospital health coordinators, how in this challenging and demanding time for the Croatian healthcare system can we do anything to make oncological patients as little wait?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24406	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24407	Dear Mr. Representative, I thank you for asking. Not only is the policy of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia, but the World Health Organization also enables oncological and other patients to receive health care rather than just Covid-19 positive. In this context, our insistence and instructions to all health institutions were just directed in this direction so that oncological health care should not be prolonged. After turning Dubrava into a covid positive hospital, we saw the need and in the Ministry of Health we formed a call center that already has over 10 thousand calls, not only oncological but also other patients who are trying to exercise the right to health care. By establishing special coordinating bodies in all health institutions, we sought to enable one network of exercise of these rights by increasing capacities in other health institutions and by transparently moving all patients who had scheduled search and processing in Dubrava to other healthcare institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24408	My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24409	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I believe we agree that human health cannot possibly be a cost. Investment in human health is certainly a good investment. Tell me why we didn't bring this National Strategy against Cancer yesterday, which is why we didn't bring it in a year ago, 3 years ago, we're the only non-EU country?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24410	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24411	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. After I became Minister in February this year, my intensity was to speed up the production of this strategic document, which I really worked on, and I don't want to find excuses for any earlier events. However, the creation of this strategic document is extremely complex, we said that we had set up 21 working groups before, over 130 experts worked on it, it was not only a list of good wishes but a very structured document with all those elements that were needed for one such strategic document to be the basis for changing these views on cancer patients, it required time, reflection, work and effort. In any case, we now have what is our next task in making an action plan and implementing all those elements described in the strategic plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24412	Comrade Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24413	Thank you... Dear Ministers Willi Beros, it is clear that through the planned implementation of the National Strategic Framework against Cancer by 2030. may improve comprehensive monitoring, prevention and treatment of malignancies. [[Speaker not enabled]] Developed countries around the world are investing intensively in secondary prevention with noticeable results. For example, the incidence rate of uterus neck cancer in many Western countries such as Finland and Sweden has been reduced by more than 70% mainly as a result of organised breakthrough. It is clear that this early diagnosis in combination with effective therapy has a significant impact on the success of cancer treatment. I congratulate you on this comprehensive national strategic framework against the fight against cancer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24414	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. Yes, I will take advantage of this moment and stress the importance of secondary prevention or national early detection programs of certain types of tumors, they really save their heads. All of us who are of a certain age and sex are given home address calls to respond to certain national programmes for early cancer detection of certain... This is of paramount importance, therefore, to respond to the same preventive tests because early detection of certain cancers can cure them completely. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, I would like to mention now the latest screening for early detection of lung cancer which is very effective in those patients who have predisposition for lung cancer development, and I will also try to emphasise the fact that we have introduced imaging methods, so CT related to artistic artificial intelligence that enables adequate, adequate diagnostics of the earliest changes in the lungs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24415	Now there's a colleague named Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24416	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, every third person in Croatia will have cancer. Cancer affects not only the person who is sick but also affects the entire family, which means that about 20% of our society will be affected by this disease. The most common form of cancer in men is lung cancer, in women breast cancer, but there is a tendency that soon prostate cancer will actually be the most represented in men. And while lung cancer, as you mentioned, but also breast cancer, uterus cancer, colon cancer, is not the case for prostate cancer. I wonder if the ministry plans to bring for prostate cancer a national early detection programme since the results of a European randomized probasing study for prostate cancer show that the testing of antigens specific to PSA prostate leads to a reduction in mortality from prostate cancer 21%? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24417	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24418	I appreciate the question, ma'am. Parliamentarians. So all these breakthroughs must be based on scientific facts. We've been thinking about establishing a prostatic cancer screening, but the kind of search you've given, so PSA antigen testing isn't specific enough to be able to detect with a high probability that it's really a prostatic cancer development. Therefore, the waist at this point is still two and is trying to find an adequate diagnostic alternative to PSA antigen that would allow early screening. At this point, however, such a diagnostic tool has not yet been defined, while given the importance of prostate cancer, it is certain that we will consider the implementation of such a National Early Prostate Cancer Program.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24419	Here you go, Comrade Matul.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24420	Thank you. Dear Minister, can you tell us just how much this year is, do you have that information and when you can deliver it to us, less diagnosed and detected malignancies in Croatia, of course the covid of the crisis and everything? We're witnesses, but every day, big mess, and you sure as the most responsible person in the country know what a mess and confusion is in hospitals, let alone where children and grandchildren are looking for their people older if they're not able to pick up their cell phone, it's a total mess. I wonder when you'll come up with a clear plan, how will you manage this and that human, fundamental human right on today's Human Rights Day, and that's the right to health to have access to diagnostics and treatment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24421	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24422	Thank you very much. Mr. Assembly Attorney. Statistical analyses of the number of pains, deaths and all other elements relating to a particular aspect of healthcare are done at the end of the year, are done in HZJZ and I expect that in the first quarter of next year we will have preliminary data on mortality and everything else as you have said then we can present them to you. We all look forward to it because the covid crisis has caused major disturbances in the exercise of the right to health care not only in the Republic of Croatia but worldwide, so these data will be very interesting. What we do every day within the activities of the Ministry of Health we try to enable the right to achieve health care and not only secondary as you have said in hospitals but more significant and primary health care because primary health care must be the basis of healthcare in every healthcare system. Therefore, these are our activities on which we work in the context of the covid crisis from day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24423	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24424	Thank you very much. Minister, it is the constitutional right of all to have the same right to health care, but as far as prevention is concerned, it is not. In two-thirds of Croatian people do not have the same option as they have in Zagreb or some major centres, so women wait for LVV breasts, for example. In Sinj, they waited six months if they enrolled, if they didn't enroll, then six months again. A number of women died from breast cancer, and they haven't been examined, and that's a huge problem. Also the problem because the government announced that preventive systematic checks for Croatian defenders had singled out money, but the other day a humanitarian, a Croatian defender, a disabled Homeland War Christian Petric, who had suffered from a severe carcinogenic disease, said he was neither the ministry nor invited him to a preventive review, especially now in the covid crisis. I'm warning you one more time, enough of the PR. In the field, things don't work out the way they need to treat people, any women, any defenders, any other sick person. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24425	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24426	Thank you very much. Mr. Assembly Attorney. We are aware that, in certain parts of our country, the right to receive healthcare has been disturbed by the lack of diagnostic, say, devices. This is exactly the kind of plan that defines between the other and the diagnostic needs that will help to sort out this irregular distribution of diagnostic equipment and enable all of our citizens to access health care. This is what I want to believe, and that it will indeed be so and I believe from a financial plan that follows this strategic framework against cancer that is very detailed and just determines the need to obtain certain and diagnostic, but also therapeutic medical devices that would enable adequate and diagnostic and therapy of these cancer patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24427	Now it's time for fellow Shimičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24428	I thank President HS. The Honorable Ministers. You said, unfortunately, there are a lot of ill cancer patients, that mortality has decreased, but that's still not enough. We also need to do everything in our power to ensure that cancer patients do not feel bad when they come to be treated, and we know that there are certain administrative difficulties and this should certainly be prevented. What I wanted to ask you, sources of funding, we know that we have medicines that are expensive and that are even more expensive and do you follow the outcomes of the treatment that we know we should really take the most expensive medicine that can help the patient? And secondly, how many NGOs were involved in the development of this strategy because we know that as many entities as possible should be involved in the development of this strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24429	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24430	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentarian. When it comes to sources of funding, this is an extremely important issue because without the same document, it remains a wish list. Therefore, over a three-year period for specific activities, the financial plan provides for 95 million kuna plus what you said specific medicines go to the cost of HZZO's scientific budget. In addition, 690 million kunas are planned for the purchase of diagnostic and therapeutic equipment, and we are counting on EU funds, mainly on the specialisation of our young doctors as it has been now, and we also have available resources in the Recovery and Resistance Programme, which we also want to use in part in the procurement of diagnostic equipment that is listed in this strategic programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24431	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24432	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Of course, all efforts are directed towards prevention, towards diagnosis of timely and treatment of our patients oncology, but although you said that mortality is in decline we are aware of the fact that not everyone will be able to heal and that dying is also inevitable in some cases. But we also have to make sure that the end of our lives, our patients, our citizens, spend in one dignified way. My question is about hospice, is your view that we need them, do we have enough and to finance them? In fact, we are aware of the fact that these sufferings of dying patients at the terminal stage can be very difficult, it is important and health care, the absence of pain, but it is also very important psychological support and spiritual help not only to patients but also to their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24433	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24434	Thank you. Dear Madam Parliamentarian. You have touched a very important topic because I, as a neurosurgeon, often encounter terminal stages of the disease. So far we have not had a elaborate systemic approach to solving this problem, however, in Chapter 8 which points to palitative care and pain relief precisely this strategic plan will define those elements that will improve health care and for those patients who are unfortunately in the terminal stages of their illness, not only in adequate accommodation and care but also in adequate pain treatment, which is equally important.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24435	Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24436	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. We know that cancer patients in the most severe stages of their illness are often users of paliative care. According to data that I have up to 46,000 people in one year need some form of palitative care in Croatia, and we know that the capacities we have in Croatia today are inadequate with both number and quality. I know that because in Varazdin County we built the most modern, two years ago, the state-of-the-art Palitative Centre in Croatia, but it's only a little more than a third of the patients in Varazdin County, they stayed from all over Croatia, so the pressure is terribly high. So my question, when it is planned, is what are the plans for building palitative centres throughout Croatia, which is more than we know, so this one in Varazdin is financed by 100% EU funds, so is that possible, so is there any plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24437	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24438	Thank you. Thank you very much for asking. You have touched an important topic, I have personally attended the opening of this center, which is of paramount importance and represents an example of how this should be done in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. So far, we have not thought enough about palitative care, but there is a certain strategy for the development of palitative care and it is clear that by adapting Croatia's health system to new treatment conditions, which are day-to-day hospitals, day-to-day surgery, no longer long-term lying in hospital, we can adapt our hospital system, which includes 63 healthcare institutions, and the development of palitative care. In some ways, I think it's a win-win situation because we're going to allow the needy to get adequate care, and at the same time we're going to make the hospitals more functional and productive, so they're going to deal with what's modern medicine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24439	Comrade Bartulica, here you go. Wait a minute, just a second. What do you need, fellow Sacic? Wrong. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24440	Thank you. Dear Minister. We will agree oncological patients among the most vulnerable groups in Croatia. At this time, the crown of the pandemics must have become even more vulnerable. According to some estimates HZZO will spend about a billion kunas mostly on testing, but also on other costs related to the coronary virus. According to the Oncology Society, about 14,000 people die of this disease each year, we are diagnosed with approximately 25,000 each year. What exactly does the ministry do to reduce the risk of being worse in the next period, given the changes in circumstances and these costs that I mentioned, directly related to the coronary crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24441	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24442	Thank you very much. Mr. Assembly Attorney. When we talk about health, then I know that finances are monitoring this conversation, but it is not entirely appropriate to talk about it. Of course the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Health will do everything possible to find sufficient financial resources and to solve the coronary crisis virus, you yourself said testing Croatian citizens. We are witnessing that very quickly in a few weeks or less than the establishment of this test we started to carry out it in the Republic of Croatia, so we must do everything to allow testing and treatment of covid-19 positive patients. But it is also our obligation to make the health system financially sustainable and that is what we will certainly try to do, and that can be done among other things by measuring the outcome of the treatment and paying for what is really effective. So this is a reform of the health system that is prepared and will go towards the financial sustainability of the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24443	Thank you. Comrade Sabelak Dračevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24444	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, congratulations on this comprehensive plan. The fact is that you'd be happier if he'd gone out before and ended up on our constituency benches, but you've definitely worked out your financial planning seriously, and this month it's been very well used, I say. So, what I would make sure of you is that the goal of all of us in the first order of the Ministry of Health is to improve and even clinical practice throughout Croatia. You know that, I'm glad that the action plans are going to work quickly, I certainly ask you to have insight into our part of the non-clinical network that will certainly have problems with accreditation standards. Since we care about multidisciplinary teams and we have new technologies... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24445	Thank you. My colleague's time is up. I'm sorry, 10 seconds have passed. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24446	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Parliamentarian. I understand your question, you've guessed the point. What has already been launched, and this is from the editorial plans, so in that sense you can be sure that we are going to make a spot on the implementation of this plan. However, when you mention this problem, it does exist, but by expanding the oncology network and by thinking about who, what and how I can believe that we will solve this problem, precisely to enable all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have equal access to the right to health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24447	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24448	Dear Minister. I'm not a doctor, I'm just very glad that this document came to our benches, which will be adopted, I hope and implemented. What would be read is that prevention is, in fact, the key to all that you want to achieve, or the way you plan to reduce disease or prevent these diseases, and you need a system to do so. We're witnessing today that the system isn't working. I'm not saying that by accident, I tried to get to the hospital, to the doctor, it's very difficult or I would say by no means, most people usually give up. In the last month, you've managed to say that the directors of the clinic are guilty of something, that they're the doctors, that they're the citizens, my question is, do you see part of your responsibility in how today's part of the system doesn't work?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24449	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24450	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentarian. Both as a man and as a doctor and as a minister, of course I feel my enormous responsibility for the health system. However, when we talk about organising work in certain health care units, it is not in my jurisdiction, although from day to day I try to inform myself of the same and to influence the improvement of the same, so it absolutely stands. On the other hand, times are extremely different, extremely challenging, the problem is a series and our task is not only to provide adequate healthcare but also to ensure that all Covid-19 patients in the global pandemic situation also have health care. It spends part of the capacity, it is impossible to compensate for rapid construction or in any other way, especially considering the possibility of spreading that disease from Covid-19 to other patients. Therefore, under the given circumstances I think we've done everything we can to make the system work. [[Intruder: Thank you]] As best as possible. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24451	Comrade Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24452	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here's my colleague, Renata, and I are actually thinking alike, so my question concerns the issue of accreditation. This strategy mentions accreditation in terms of the 2030 vision. Does that mean it'll only be 2030? So that's the question of our fellow oncologists that I've talked to, and then teachingly about this issue and about this national oncology network that we've already started talking about, it's very important here that local centres, so not clinical centres, keep their important role in diagnostics, in treating and monitoring oncology patients, everything that's been going on so far, and as far as it's possible for them to be empowered not to travel to remote centres, which is certainly a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24453	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24454	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. In my earlier answer, there is an answer to your question. We agree that the possibility of adequate healthcare in all parts of the Republic of Croatia must also be ensured, and I think the creation of such a network will enable it, the network will not wait long because the aim of the implementation of this strategic framework is to make it work as soon as possible. I think that the formation of these multidisciplinary teams that we are witnessing today can also work through video distant telemedicine connections will certainly contribute to improving and accessibility of health care, and then ultimately, and everything we've been talking about, and that's options and diagnostics and prescribed, prescribed treatment options and treatment procedures for all patients, so in this direction we've looked at and I believe that's going to be realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24455	Comrade Pavić Željko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24456	Dear Minister, you are familiar with the fact that even before the covid crisis there were problems with diagnostics in cancer patients, that these patients from the first notice, until, until full diagnostics waited for days, sometimes weeks and months, and that was a condition that was indeed causing major psychological problems for both them and the family. These were the days that actually lasted like months, months that lasted like years. With the covid crisis, that distance has increased. So from the moment there's been some kind of announcement that there's some kind of an oncology problem to the moment that it's really going into diagnostics, and the treatment's still extended. Do you have any announcements that this could be reduced... to come into some sort of normal state and that cancer patients can function again and go to the hospital for regular examinations? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24457	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24458	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentarian. You've touched an important question, and waiting lists have been a problem for a long time. They are now being dealt with in the way of introducing priority waiting lists, so all those patients who require rapid processing can also receive it within the appropriate time limit. In addition, HZZO introduced about a month and a half ago an e-order system, so a very transparent and simple information system for ordering on searches that prevents double procurement and a series of those elements that were previously present. We are witnessing the facts of course in the context of the covid crisis that certain prolongations of waiting exist on diagnostic tests, but after opening a health system as you testify in the spring of some medical institutions have shown that very quickly and easily can compensate for all these delays. I also believe that there will be now + what we have just established this call center at the Ministry of Health to solve all such problems as possible and at this point with all the directors of health Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24459	This brings us to an end with replicas, thanks to the Minister for now, you can return to your post, so we will now call on the rapporteur of the Committee, the chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the respected Renata Sabelak Dračevac, to brief us on the position of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24460	Thank you, Mr. President, dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to read you the official report of the Health and Social Policy Committee. I will inform you that 12 of the 13 members attended the session, 13 members were justly absent because of their active participation in the plenary session. The proposal of the National Strategic Cancer Framework was adopted, ha we would say by acclaim. All participants in the debate stressed the importance of this serious document, which comes from elaborate prevention, competent diagnostics, organised therapy and treatment outcome monitoring. 21 working groups participated in this draft strategy, and this shows us how serious this strategy is. It would stress that now, as the minister said, we should start with action plans, focus and focus on getting us off the scale as quickly as possible, so we have a 5th place on the death rate from, to, to the bottom of the EU country scale, or to the 5th country with the lowest rate of malignancies. It's a shame that we've been waiting for this comprehensive strategy for a while, and it would be a shame if good other strategies were standing in drawers, so I'd ask the ministry to move in a hurry in that direction, for example. National strategies for the protection of mental health, and certainly we would be happy that in the 1st month when we return to our assembly benches on the table we are welcomed by the most important strategy National Health Development Strategy, our roof strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24461	Now I'm going to open the debate, let's go to the clubs first, first is my respected colleague, Bozo Petrov, on behalf of the club of the representatives of the independent lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24462	Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, thank you to all those who participated in the development of this plan to fight cancer, who have singled out a part of their time, energy, knowledge, in order to enable everyone in Croatia to have a better quality of life, thank them. As far as the introduction of the minister is concerned I must commend you have a nice introduction, a fine medical lecture, ideal conditions, we've heard it all, you've also had nice ordered questions that will need to paint a nice situation in today's health system. We've heard congratulations, big days, shush, flowers and calves, but I don't think we need it, not in a situation like this, I don't think it's going to help us right now, or even politically because it actually shows the secession of reality. What we need is to be realistic and practical for all people in Croatia. Why? As the final framework for the fight against cancer ends, and this does not have to be the final framework, there is still time to improve it, so much will depend and have consequences for citizens' health. I believe it can be improved. Why? I wish in the first row that I had said to be realistic, we could hear everything about this situation, this frequency of cancer on the world level can do for the poorer quality of people's lives, so I said you had a nice introductory medical lecture, but I want us to be realistic that we know today what the picture is like in Croatia. And today's picture in Croatia is that at the moment when measures are being taken or advertised, the government's reform measures in the health sector are such that the health ministry's plan is not to reach the EU average in the next 50 years. After separation for chronic diseases e.g. This is very important to know because, among other things, it indirectly affects people who are fighting, who are suffering from cancer, and they are long-term patients in a certain way. The funds should also be allocated to them. We've been discussing government reform measures over the last year, and you need to change that indirectly. So, we don't just need nice words, that I said thank you to everyone who has cooperated, thank you to everyone who participates in this debate today, thank you to everyone who will in their proposals, which in the debate, which in the amendments, make this framework better, as a colleague, as a doctor, but we need to be realistic in everything because it will help us to make our proposals and our wishes better. What we should also be aware of today's Croatian reality is that trends in the incidence and frequency of cancer, cancer mortality, are getting worse and worse every year. The average of 2016 in the EU was 214 people per 100,000 people, in Croatia already there were 321, 321 people, almost double the EU average, this was 2016, today is up. It's our picture, and I'm not saying, I'm not turning the blame, I'm not saying someone's guilty right now, some political party, what I want to draw today, and you'll see why. There are so many bad numbers that we suffer 25,000 people in Croatia every year. More than half die, 14,000 people die of cancer annually, it has not been noted. And maybe my tone for some here sounds melodramatic, maybe they didn't have someone close to them who got hurt or hurt, maybe they didn't get a chance to see it from the front row. But believe me, when you go through it and you see life shutting down, especially your neighbor, you'd give blood under your neck to save that person. And I'm telling you that today these people aren't old. Cancer mortality is below 65 years of age. In life first, first, they're not cardiovascular diseases, and that's not mentioned, but I think it's worth mentioning. This is why the Republic of Croatia is among the 5 worst countries at the rate of survival in the EU. These are the initial settings from which we move, very important to emphasize. That's why today's framework is so important, today's plan to fight cancer. That's why it's not a political promotion. What hurts me like a doctor hurts me is 3 years old. This plan was in the ministry drawers under different names, and was not adopted and therefore repeatedly at various press conferences of statements I resisted all the time "bring it finally to HS so that we can discuss it, so that we can improve it, so that we can save people". That's what we think should have been done before, and it's not 3 years ago. Come covid, but we won't cry for the time it's been. I'd like to try to see what else can be done in this context that the quality of people's lives, that the average life of people with cancer can be longer, can be better, can be better, can be better. We all know that in a moment...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24463	Comrade Petrov, I'm sorry, just a minute. I don't see who's saying it, but I hear it very loudly, please, colleagues, don't do it. I'm sorry to interrupt, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24464	We all know that early detection, early detection programs, treatment under modern protocols, adoption of healthier life habits, life-long, average lifespan, the quality of people's lives will be better. What we see as a certain failure in this plan today and where it can be improved. It is widely written with the definition of long-term targets for the reduction of malignant diseases, but it is not, it is insufficient, a vision of the implementation of certain measures. What I must stress in particular is the biggest problem in this plan is the lack of a doctor or their role, primary health care, a family doctor. They are the ones who should be the key stakeholders in calling and mobilizing patients for preventive checks. In addition, the document largely refers to planning activities without clear indicators of organisation, protocol, monitoring, evaluation, measures. I think it can be done better. Also, the problem is a palitative concern that needs to be organised as many ways as possible. In this plan, we see that the paliatic concern is directed towards the creation of hospital departments. I think the palitarian care is much wider than the idea of creating hospital wards. There are also psychologists and social workers and him in the house and local self-government and religious communities, a series of sectors that can help in quality and create a better quality of life for those people who are sick. I would really like this day to not only be congratulations, but to really be a day where we will all discuss quality, to give if there are any proposals possible other than these and to be independent of the political party if we can make better suggestions for this plan to be better. After this comes the creation of diagnostic procedures, so, the way we're going to make better quality measures, I think that's what people in Croatia deserve, and that's our goal. I really hope the ministers that except, I don't know what you're going to say that I hit the essence of the questions like you told other people, I expect you'll really improve this plan, there's time, there's still enough time Thank you. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24465	We are now going to a second debate, dear colleague Ivan Celic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24466	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. Today, when we remember the death of the first Croatian president, I did not say in vain that this is a great day, and it is not a panegiric to the health minister or to the current health administration, but it is the words of those who fight with this disease and those who support them. At first, I think of journalist Ivan Kalođer as founder of the Association “We’re not alone” of the same-named portal who once said that sometimes it seems to her that when public health manifestations come, take pictures and leave and satisfy the form, they sent a message, but then I asked myself, since I often visit such public health actions, do I really come there to paint and put it on social networks or do I really do something to make the situation right, in terms of the quality of life of malignancies, but also members of their families, because the malignant disease is actually a family disease, which is why I come there? Today I expect this debate, although it is my friend and colleague Dr. Bozo Petrov was quite ironic, I expect a consensus because this is an extra-party issue, of course, that constructive criticism is possible. I stress this is a great day, and we should give hope to the sick and members of their families today, and that will be achieved among other things by adopting the National Strategic Framework for the fight against cancer because we believe that this document will allow the disease to be detected as early as possible and as successfully treated as possible. At the 26th meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held on 3 December, this proposal was discussed and addressed to the Assembly and there representatives and representatives of NGOs were little in the first wave of dissatisfaction because the process is slowing down, but next week we will adopt this National Strategic Framework if God adopts the day. I think the decision of the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, was correct to discuss this strategic framework even though it was not formally necessary. And here I call on you all to do one concrete piece, however slow these different processes seem to be, I call on all MPs and MPs together to support a proposal on a free transport service for people with malignancies carried out by the "We're not alone" association. Unfortunately, many people who are lonely, who do not have, people who need help, give up radiation chemotherapy because there is no one to take them because if they leave then they have to wait for hours to return them to the sanity transport. My colleague Petrov, no one denies certain problems, we wish they were much better standards. Here's a better standard service that doesn't cost that much. I believe that the Minister of Health will support this favor. If we support together, believe me, this will very quickly finance this service of free transport for the patients who need transport for radiation or chemotherapy services. We heard that cancer is a leading public health problem in Croatia, that the number of people suffering from malignant diseases is on the rise, therefore the role of primary, secondary and tertiary prevention is discussed. So the primary is focused on healthy lifestyles, secondary to identifying early-stage patients. I deal with tertiary prevention, so taking care of those conditions that cannot be treated, where we are primarily focused on the quality of life of these people. I can now read data from Croatia's Croatian Cancer Register that should be better, but you can read it all in different publications. So here I'd say about organized breast cancer proprobers and colon cancer that have been going on for many years. The minister mentioned the introduction of a breakthrough in lung cancer by low-dose CT diagnostics. The European project HEROIC is under way which is organized by the organization "Jedra" Croatian League for the Fight against Cancer and a Sports Karate Club from Zagreb. I would remind you that on 18 January 2019, an informal anti-cancer initiative was set up in the last session on the initiative of the European Parliament's representative, Mrs. Dubravka Shuice, who is now Vice-President of the European Commission, was then reported with 29 representatives, Dr. Sinisha Varga was the leader of this informal initiative. The current chairman of the Assembly Health Committee, Dr. Renata Sablar Dračevac called on all MPs and MPs to join in. I believe that in the second anniversary of this initiative, we will formally organise a new initiative, "Representatives Against Cancer". In January this year, a special parliamentary committee was established in Brussels, which for one of the many objectives was to raise awareness of the importance of cancer prevention and timely medical examinations, as well as equalising the health standards of EU member states. Sometimes it seems like some utopian idea, some utopian idea, like when I mention an initiative that stems from this structure of people who are dealing with the problem of addiction to advocate a society free of drugs. However, both the European Parliament and the European Commission have recognised that the time has come for a joint fight against malignancies. There are no more important things than health, cancer equally affects us regardless of sex, age, religion, which political preferences we have. So, this National Strategic Framework for Combating Cancer, which was attended by very, very many participants, counterpart Simicevic mentioned the role of NGOs. I will also remind you that a month ago, NGOs once again asked for the immediate adoption of the National Strategic Framework against Cancer. At this point health care professionals who are dealing with oncology patients are really making a lot of effort because it is difficult, it is burdened by the health system due to the global pandemic of covid, elective demands are delayed, but no checks are delayed. What I'm doing here, I'm calling on all those who are feeling any kind of trouble, who have any symptoms that might suggest a malignant disease so they don't delay their examinations. The fact is, there's been a decline in the number of newly diagnosed. We don't have any data for this current year, we can't have them, but we see preliminary results, not only in Croatia, so it's a global situation that's a problem, and it's going to be one of the consequences of this pandemic that's going to be seen maybe over 2-3.g. that certain malignancies will be later recognized and there will be more serious consequences. What I would point out here at the very end, so this intersectoral interdisciplinary cooperation is a special part of the psychological support of the malignancies, I think it's extremely important, but I'm going to talk about it more about individual debate. The HDZ Club of course fully supports the adoption of the National Strategic Framework against War by 2030, this is a great day for patients with malignant diseases and members of their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24467	Thank you, too. Please just delete the pay phone before we speak to our esteemed colleague Sablar Dračevac Marić on behalf of the club, and Sablar Dračevac and after her colleague Maric on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24468	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Last time I forgot to say hello except for the minister and assistant, the deputy, the assistant minister who is also here today, of course, and all our distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So first, I would like to thank my colleague Cellic for mentioning this initiative, therefore, anti-cancer representatives. And once again, I ask my colleagues that we already have some applications, but it would be good to engage as much as possible and to show ourselves to the European Parliament and we in that part of the action. Here, I thank my colleague Cell again. So, I express the satisfaction of the SDP Club that the National Strategic Framework for Combating Cancer is finally today on the agenda of our session. Because let me remind you, despite the fact that in 2009, the Croatian Parliament adopted a resolution on malignant tumours that it had committed to bring a national plan and a programme against cancer to date this strategic framework has not been adopted. Why do we need the National Strategic Cancer Framework? To find, advanced solutions to reduce the incidence and mortality of cancer. In order to make progress in addressing the problem of fighting cancer and to increase the rate of survival in Croatia. This means introducing multidisciplinary, improving the organisation of oncology institutions and empowering them, but primarily investing in primary and secondary prevention and investment in knowledge. Investment in diagnostics and introduction of innovative treatments. Ensuring continuous quality control of all aspects of oncological treatment and the introduction of information on the clinical, information and clinical database on diseased or endpoint monitoring. Because the national anti-cancer plan should be defined and organised by a network of oncology institutions and healthcare professionals, improved and uniformised clinical practice throughout Croatia. Ensure the availability of innovative therapies, the ability to define and introduce a system of quality control of treatment outcomes. Once again, I would like to emphasise the need to implement this strategy as quickly as possible by working with practice. High attention should be paid to the development of an oncology network, the care needed for each patient, enabling him to treat the nearest of his home. This is also the EU's tendency in the new EU budget programme. It is recommended to reduce the unnecessary travel burdens of the patient and his family because if you are sick and powerless, and live from your work very quickly, you will become poor. I would, I would talk about a network of non-clinical institutions in my individual speech, and now I would just look back, so in, on the development means in the strategic plan we have envisaged the number of radiotherapy devices 3.5 devices per million population. This is much less than in the EU where 5.3 devices per million inhabitants are. The number of patients unfortunately increases. We have heavy burdens on regional centres, or KBCs, on radiotherapy devices, which cause them to break down very often. Radiotherapy must develop in other centres, and we must certainly keep that in mind. Patients are having difficulty agreeing terms, having to organise accommodation during treatment, and very often during initiation of treatment after failure, they must interrupt and repeat the whole process practically from the beginning. I also hope that the implementation of this national plan improves and evens practice, clinical practice throughout the Republic of Croatia. Now, my colleague will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24469	Here you go, fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24470	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague, we have heard that we have long waited for the National Strategic Framework against Cancer until 2030 to see the light of day. Croatia is currently the only EU country that has not adopted the National Anti-cancer Strategy yet, but as soon as we hope to adopt, we certainly welcome the adoption of the strategy and its rapid implementation in practice. The aim of this strategy is to improve the health of citizens throughout life, reduce the incidence and mortality of cancer, and increase the quality of cancer patients in the Republic of Croatia to Western European countries. I would therefore stress the importance of national early cancer detection programmes that must cover and motivate as many people as possible because we know that prevention remains a number one tool in reducing the number of patients and deaths. At the time of the pandemic, the implementation of the national programme has been reduced, the availability of health care for non-Covid patients has been reduced, and the question is what numbers on mortality and morbidity we will witness when this coronary crisis is over. The ministry and government will certainly need to make up a clear plan and strategy so that all delayed searches, reviews and operations will be compensated. Discontinuation of health care professionals and under-rewarding everyone in the system, especially those on the front line of the fight, is certainly not a good message and motivation, so we hope that the ministry will certainly work on it. Rooted systemic changes are also needed to improve living conditions, better quality nutrition, education on healthy habits from small legs, education and motivation of citizens for responsibility for their own health and health. Early detection, available and accurate diagnostics, multidisciplinary treatment of each patient, availability of quality of modern procedures and treatment methods, continuous control of the quality of the oncology system, follow-up of treatment outcome, functional palitative care. I'd like to point out the thoughts of an oncologist. As for the national oncology network that we have already discussed and whose formation has been spoken of for many years, the attitude of all oncologists from general hospitals is that this network remains the same as it is now, at least as most colleagues from clinical centres are now of the same opinion. There have been talks about the need for centre accreditation, but this has not yet been defined, since Mr. Minister has not been able to answer my question, I hope that he will look more closely and more closely at accreditation. The abolition of certain centres would reduce patients' rights to equal care in all parts of the country. Many studies have shown that the quality of life of the patient, adherence to the treatment protocol and the outcome of treatment are proportionally proportional to the length of travel. The 80 km journey in some studies is listed as a border after which the aspects are dramatically deteriorated. Next question is oncology teams. It is also necessary to allow smaller centres that do not have all the necessary teams to use telemedicine to present patients on virtual teams, as stated in the strategy, which is certainly good. The establishment of multidisciplinary teams in all oncological treatment institutions is important not only within a single institution but good coordination between smaller institutions and regional centres is needed, but also precisely defined verticals and according to tertiary institutions to enable patients to obtain treatment terms as quickly as possible. Of course, a central institution that would have a clear task of coordinating and implementing all these key requirements for an effective cancer control programme is also important. Furthermore, oncologists in general hospitals argue that immunotherapy of the most common tumours and general hospitals is possible. Immunotherapy is now being administered in almost all tumour cells. We've already moved there, so with the clinic's approval, there's now a possible continuation of immunotherapy in general hospitals, so I believe that's what's going to continue. As regards therapy, chemotherapy including particularly expensive medicines in view of the growing number of malignancies that meet the existing HZZO criteria should not be limited to restrictions on listed therapy by institutions because, according to current practice, when crossing the HZZO limit, the rest goes to the expense of the institution. Thus, such practice should no longer occur. And in conclusion, we certainly support the adoption of the National Cancer Strategy and hope that care for cancer patients will improve in all segments listed in the strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24471	Thank you, too. All I ask is that we clean up the pay phone, and after that, there will be a club of representatives of HSLS and Reformist respected colleague Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24472	The Honorable President of the Assembly, respected ministers with co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues, cancer remains one of the leading public health problems both in the world and in Croatia, despite the great progress of science and medicine. According to the latest data, this has already been discussed today, the number of people in the world has increased by 2.7 million new cases and 1.3 million deaths in 2020. In Croatia, the second most common cause of mortality after cardiovascular disease and is responsible for 27% of deaths. The cancer of the year has been diagnosed with nearly 25,000 citizens, and as many as 14,000 have passed away. It is the leading cause of mortality in persons under 65 years of age, and it will cause 3 people to suffer according to these statistics. Maybe the opening couple here are a few words about the Varazdin County I come from. So, so far, we've had cancer in another cause of mortality where men have the most common prostate cancer. In women is leading breast cancer as well as in the rest of Croatia. Out of the total number of deaths in Varazdin County, every 4 people die from cancer according to the latest data available from 2018. Like any county and Varazdinska, it is an effort to provide the best health care and to adapt its health care to the needs of patients. Thanks to many European projects, more than 570 million kunas have been invested in our health back 3 years. We also equipped our health care offices and concessionary doctors with a contract from EU funds with state-of-the-art equipment and increased the availability and diversity of services with the aim of sending as few people to hospitals as possible and thus discharging the system. For example, in our home of health in Ivanac you can perform a series of important tests on a modern ultrasonic machine with a linear probe or a new RTG machine worth million kuna, you can perform UZV breast, UZV thyroid, door, abdomen, lymph nodes, kidneys, bladder etc. This is all of course still not enough still needs exist, but at this point it is above Croatia's standards. We're doing everything in our power to prevent cancer. The Institute of Public Health of the Varazdin County implements national early detection programmes for breast cancer, colon cancer and uterus neck cancer. As part of European projects, we also organise free breast prevention checks for men, so we organise a whole series of activities and events to especially thank our many organizations that are very active in volunteering, so that we participate in making as much awareness as possible of our citizens and, on the other hand, optimise human and technical resources and use our own resources in the smartest way and, in particular, continuously, stressing EU funds. We are aware that prevention and early detection of disease have proven the most successful methods in the fight against malignant diseases, and we believe that our activities will help reduce the number of cancer patients and deaths. Unfortunately, despite the great effort of all health care professionals in the fight against cancer, the results are not so good, and Croatia has already been said here many times today, the only EU country that has not yet adopted the National Strategic Framework for Combating Cancer, and after 11 years, it is indeed the time to adopt it in the assembly, and I believe that it will be unanimous. Croatia is in the fifth place behind Slovakia, Poland, Cyprus and Hungary in the overall incidence of EU average cancer. And from this, it might be possible to conclude that Croatia is lagging behind in treating cancer, but in order to be able to answer these questions more reliably and to plan appropriate actions to improve the situation, it is precisely this National Strategic Framework against Cancer that we are discussing today, and we are soon to bring. It is a detailed strategy with precise deadlines and financial plans in which over 100 domestic and foreign cancer experts participated, which brings reform within 5 sub-systems of oncology. Therefore, its implementation of all those involved in the fight against this serious disease from prevention, early detection to successful treatment will provide precise information on where problems arise and what needs to be changed precisely in the processes in order to make our results as good as possible. It is known that already better prevention can be prevented from 30 to 50% of malignant tumours, and if early enough cancer is found today in many cases a treatable disease. This strategy brings clear pathways to the sick through the health system and instructions to which stage of the disease is extremely important, while at the same time bringing a reduction of costs to the health system. According to almost all the experts in this area, we do not currently know exactly what our figures show exactly where the cause of our problems lies, so of course we cannot even know if we are spending money intended for oncology effectively. The budget for the next 2 years provides implementation funds and no delay in the adoption of this strategy is taken into account because it would indeed be a total unnecessary waste of time. What is further extremely important is the fact that by adopting this strategy, we are in a position to use European funds that are designed to fight cancer that has not been possible so far. If we put all this together in the context of a current pandemic that we cannot know at this time how long it will take and when it will end, of course we must not allow Covid-19 to become the only concern and the only preoccupation of our health system. Around oncology patients are one of the most vulnerable groups for the virus infection, and the real consequences of the pandemic in oncology are yet to be expected because, of course, there have already been many times here today, it is clear that a small number of people are deciding on preventive checks. All of this makes us turn this problem with much more attention, and we have the opportunity to reverse the picture of the situation in the coming years, and our obligation is to do so. I believe that it is clear to all of us that we can no longer fight against the disease that affects the largest number of human lives in Croatia and that we must not fight unorganisedly. Therefore, by 2030, we want to finish the job, achieve the objectives set, we must immediately adopt this framework because its adoption of the job is not finished, it is, in fact, only the first but most important and necessary step. There is still a huge work ahead of us to prepare and implement this strategy in order, like some countries, to make a step towards reducing mortality, saving thousands of lives annually. As I have already said in the national strategic framework, all phases of the prevention of cancer from primary prevention, early detection, accurate diagnostics, availability of adequate procedures and therapy are covered by all phases of care in Croatia, which unfortunately still lacks its right and necessary and extremely important place in the system. I hope that the application of this framework will make a significant shift in this neglected segment of care for the ills spoken of in Croatia, and is particularly important for the malignancies. I talked about it at the beginning and in the replica of the minister, so up to 46,000 patients a year need a certain form of palitative care, and our existing centres and hospital facilities in this regard are completely inadequate both by number and quality. We, therefore, built in Varazdin by European means, it was one of the first projects in this term of the county government so the most modern palitative centre in Croatia at this time. Their capacities are, its capacity is 90 beds and has 50 specially educated nurses and specialized doctors and the most modern equipment. But the pressure on this centre is terribly large only slightly more than 1/3 of patients are from Varazdin County all others are from other parts of Croatia so there really is a need to go in the direction of building palitative centres. I especially stress therefore that this project is financed 100% of its value is 52 million kuna and is financed by 100% EU funds, so there are funds and I think they should therefore start. There is, of course, responsibility on county systems, above all, not only the ministry's jurisdiction, this was a completely county project, to report such projects and to start building these regional or county centres. Finally, given the high mortality, it is clear that the fight against cancer is a national, strategic and security issue. According to these statistics, every 3 people in this country will eventually suffer from this disease and it is therefore important to adopt this strategic framework. People's health is never a cost, and so once again, I urge you all to adopt this, this strategy as soon as possible so that it goes into realisation. Thank you to all who participated in the construction of this extensive and truly quality document. Once again, a special thank you to all associations that are constantly working on informing and preventing our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24473	Thank you, too. Now it's the SDSS and Ms. Dragana Jeckov's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24474	I'd like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly. Mr. Minister with an associate, everyone here, I'm sure we know more than who has cancer or who is still suffering. These are our sisters, brothers, parents, acquaintances, old, young ones anyway, and that is why this issue cannot possibly be politically or party-colored. Surely this is a matter of supersede and sure that it is of strategic importance. In fact, this fight against war, against cancer, is a security issue and requires a consensus for all of us. Regardless of what this issue concerns all of us, somehow subconsciously all of us think it just happens to me, it won't happen to someone close to me, but despite the progress, the sharp progress of medicine, and I especially dare say medicine in the Republic, in which world-renowned experts operate, despite this diagnosis of malignant diseases, gets 24,000 people, dies 14,000, and maybe even one of us in attendance is suffering from cancer and we don't even know it right now. It is precisely because of these figures to show the seriousness of this topic that it is important to say that in one year we lose the city the size of Metkovic, Virovitica or Samobor. In fact, when we make it so plastically aware, we remain actually aware of the seriousness of this topic, which is exactly how we need to be serious and, as I said, supersedely and talk about it. A few days ago, we discussed the impact of the Coronal virus on social care through the Social Care Act, and then I talked about the potential effects of the Coronal virus on social care and how it would actually affect welfare institutions. We can also speak from the perspective of oncological patients that the coronary virus will actually reflect on them, and it is reflected daily, and although there is a really strong struggle of all in the health system that just oncological patients get adequate care, the question is what is really about prevention, how many are we actually delayed by some preventive examinations precisely because of the situation with the coronary virus. Often in the last few months, we have had an opportunity to hear about what is happening to those who have healed but still need control. These effects of the coronary virus on our health system will only be discussed and we will only be able to say something more concrete about it for a while, and I hope that the data that we then have as valid that it will not be scary, but the dose of caution still needs to exist and should be thought about. The truth about the will of survival data shows that the Republic of Croatia is at the very bottom of the EU country scale, among the 5 countries with the worst survival rate, and therefore I say that we should have adopted this strategy, we should have brought it yesterday, we should have brought it in five years ago, we should have brought it in a month after we entered the EU because our country is the only one who doesn't own it. On the other hand, we must be aware that the adoption of this national strategy, in fact, the act of its adoption itself will not eradicate cancer, but will reduce negative trends and eventually save a certain number of people. The strategic objective of this national framework is to improve the health of citizens throughout life, reduce the incidence and mortality of cancer, and extend and increase the quality of life of cancers in our country at the level of Western European countries, that is, what we expect from this strategy. I will repeat, and I have already said that sometimes we become aware of numbers only when we plastically display through a concrete example so that the reforms envisaged by the document in question within 5 sub-systems of oncology, primary and secondary prevention, diagnosis, treatment, palitative care in the next 10 years can save the city the size of Karlovac. And I will join a group of those who thank the people who participated in the adoption of this national strategic framework. Its implementation will affect the lives of all of us. The forecasts are that nearly 5,300 people in the Republic of Croatia will not suffer from cancer, 7,000 additional patients will survive, and additional years of life will be realized in the population. And what is most important in this strategy is that patients will be shown a very clear way through the health system, to whom and at what stage should they address themselves. The health system will be driven by a reduction in costs because unnecessary checks will therefore be avoided, and the country will reduce the incidence of cancer in the long term through preventive measures provided for in this strategy. It is precisely because of the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the SDSS that will support your strategy without delay, and it will also join the initiative mentioned here by a respected colleague of the SDSS to ensure free transport for all patients who, malignant patients with malignancies therefore have to travel to therapy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24475	Now it's Mr. Milan Vrkljan's turn to speak in front of the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24476	Dear Mr President, Your Honor, Mr Minister, yesterday we spoke much more in detail on this issue at the Assembly Committee on Health and has already been informed by the chairman of the Committee that this document has been unanimously agreed upon there to be supported and that has already been said by several speakers before me. However, I will allow myself to draw attention to a few things that I think are important. Malignant diseases are the most common cause of death in the Republic of Croatia, we have heard that more than 14-15.000 of our citizens die from malignant diseases every year. Of cardiovascular diseases, about 24,000 of our citizens die each year, and what is very important is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has brought and the Ministry has made its own time-consuming strategic plan for the treatment and prevention of cardiovascular diseases, and a network of such diseases has been created at the level of Croatia, and after that, we have had a much greater, much better survival of such diseases. I would say that in Croatia we have been waiting 30 years for this strategy and it is undeniable that there is a great credit to the minister, I think that no one should be sarcastic at this point and no one should call out why we haven't done it before. I'd say many of you have been sitting here for the last 30 years, some almost so many, so you've had a chance to ask all the ministers so far why it hasn't been done. Today's Minister Beros is the last person who should be asked why we've waited 30 years. I would say that the goal of this strategy is for patients with malignant disease to be diagnosed as early as possible in the Republic of Croatia. Based on the diagnosis being made as early as possible with such patients, adequate and best therapy can be achieved at a time when the disease has not improved. This is very important for poor countries like the Republic of Croatia because patients who are diagnosed with malignancies in time, where malignancies that have not improved are the cheapest costs of treating such patients. In the document itself, it is definitely set that these goals are early diagnosis, choice of therapy, what is very rarely said in Croatia, and here is the outcome of treatment and cost planning, and all of this collectively when we look at it, we can say that this leads to a single system. And we have definitely received with this document an orderly system in the health system in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the equipment and education mentioned here, one of the most important things that all doctors working in this system will immediately recognize, and this is a multidisciplinary approach to treating patients with malignancies. I'll give myself the right to privatize, not revolutionaryly, I've been working in that system for the last 30 years, and the professor who introduced me to that system 40 years ago has built a multidisciplinary centre at the Wine City Hospital that deals, and the minister himself has had the opportunity to be part of that system and knows it very well from the Wine City Hospital and we're there a reference center for endocrinology oncology, Professor Sexo made a system like that 40 years ago and I as a young doctor when he sent me to London to Besser asked me from where, from Zagreb, how you do endocrinological oncology, when I explained to him that the way we do it means that certain doctors of professions come to one place and at that one place to talk to a patient, and not that he has to go to 10 places, then the institution of world medicine and endocrinology told me, and what you do there in Zagreb are the art of 10 years old, and I's that I's that I's the patient, and I's that I's why I's I's I's I's I's I've got to say, and I's I's I's got to say it, and I's I's I's I's, and I's I's I's I's I's I's I's I's I's I's, and I's I's I's I's I's I's I's I's I's got to say, and I's I', and I's and I's I's I' and I' and I's I's I's I's I's I's I' and I' and I' and I', and I's I' and I's I's I' and I' and I' and I' and I's got to say, and I' and I' and I' and I' and I' and I' and I' and I' and I' and I' and I' and I' I' and I' and I' and I' I' and I's I's I's I' and I' and I' And now there are 6-7 doctors sitting at the table, in front of all the screens, etc., here you see this is the most modern, modern approach to treating patients with endocrinological oncology. I was a little older again, but not old enough, and probably not rude enough to tell him a respected colleague or professor my Professor Sexo introduced it to Zagreb 10 years ago, and we have been treating our patients for years. So Croatia has its own tradition in interdisciplinary approach to treating patients with malignant disease, but well, this is now a round story at the level of all Croatia and I definitely welcome it. I'm going to tell the Minister a few things that I think we need to take care of so we can make strategic decisions, which is that our statistics in medicine, let's be honest, especially us who are doctors here in the O.R. isn't exactly classified, is not exactly the most transparent. We write our minister's patient out of the hospital if he has a uro-infection, if he has diabetes mellitus and if he has any tumor we'll write that he has diabetes because diabetes brings 12-11,000 kunas and we'll actually encrypt it wrong. We're doing this because we're forced by HZZO decisions and some other administrative decisions to encrypt such a patient in this way. Based on this we have the wrong databases and fortunately there are regulated databases such as Germany and England, and we are our center for endocrinological oncology is part of the German register for endocrinological oncology, which I am particularly proud of because we are the only one from Croatia who managed to infiltrate that we can register our patients in this register without asking any special permission. And what matters is what seems to me to be recognized here, but perhaps not sufficiently pronounced. Health money in poor countries like Croatia must be focused on those, those areas in those systems where this money can be used best. My personal opinion that money can be used best, someone talked about it, close to the life of a doctor, and above all, I mean primary health care. One kuna, one EUR-o or 1 dollar invested in the primary health care system can be used more than one dollar or kuna invested in the large KBC system. And besides, through that system, the patient has a better chance of getting his diagnosis. We're only talking about diagnostic procedures here. What is particularly important, I would like to emphasise that it is necessary, and part of it is written, that public sensitisation, patient education is needed, it is something very important, as important as every kuna is invested in the health system. Patient education is incredibly important, and on the other hand it is important that nurses and doctors be educated. Making standards, that in every part of Croatia the same way and that the same availability of the patient can be accessed by the doctor, the system and the treatment of his illness. This is a very important public health problem because it speaks of rational spending of money. I'm going to say that the Home Movement Club would definitely support this document and that we want it to be just as good a later development of that system in hospitals, hospitals, primary health care as it was made in the written form of the document itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24477	Mrs Dalia Oreskovic will present her position on this National Strategic Framework Against Cancer proposal, the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24478	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs and MPs, many colleagues who spoke before me pointed out that Croatia is the only EU member who does not yet have a national anti-cancer strategy, we doubt whether we should have brought it yesterday or 30 years ago. I think it's much more important than the day or date of the year when we brought the strategy to its quality and what will happen after that. We also mentioned that about 14,000 people die of cancer in Croatia annually, which would mean that in the last 10-11 years we lost a city the size of Split to cancer and deaths. That's what's frightening about what we should be particularly asking ourselves. There are no official data, but estimates of associations say that only this year, during the pandemic of cancer in Croatia, 7,000 people died. If there were no other reasons, only these data would be sufficient to give full support to the adoption of a strategic document and I welcome the fact that a large number of experts who have really made a quality contribution participated in it. This is seen by the content of detecting problems throughout our system through all I will list them through 5 key areas that this strategy deals with. But I regret that during the consultation with the public interest some of the objections and very, very extensive comments, such as those given by the Croatian doctor’s chamber, these comments were taken into account by the ruling. I think that those arguments that were highlighted through the consultation with the interested public should have been respected to a much greater, much more significant extent. Something needs to be said about cancer patients during this pandemic. So everything points out that next year's figures will be significantly higher. There will be a higher number of newly detected cancer cases in the advanced phase because there have been no preventive examinations in the past months, and there are significantly fewer of them than there were in the comparable period last year. People generally avoid going to preventive checks because they are currently afraid that there will be some kind of contagion with Covid as a person with a higher risk factor. It says something else that says it, and it's an additional indicator of broken trust in the system, in the headquarters and in the measure. This also means that we did not communicate adequately with cancer patients or potentially risky patients from further disease and did not convince them that the system was adequately prepared to perform all of its preventive, diagnostic, and other health tasks compared to this group. If we look at the statistics, we will see that in fact from the risk of a new disease of some type of cancer in Croatia is actually every 3 people. In men, lung cancer is the most common, while women are the most affected by breast cancer. I think that we should pay particular attention to the particular causes and risk factors specific to these types of diseases and give them a little more attention in the analysis, however, this has not happened. The main problem and the main lack of this strategy is that it is not sufficiently concerned with the system itself. So, the reason why we fight cancers is the worst in Europe stems from a poorly designed and poorly organized health system. This strategy does not work in any way, and I am afraid that what happens to most of our strategies might happen, and that is to remain unimplemented. So, so far, we've brought about 150 of them as complete as possible, which sectoral, almost none of them have been implemented, not even close to what this strategy itself has wanted to achieve in its declared objectives, in its once well-detected problems. Now if this strategy were to be summed up briefly, I would divide it into maybe 3-4 main areas. So in prevention whether it's primary or secondary, in diagnosis, that particular attention would say something more if I were to arrive on genetic testing, genetic testing and counselling, then on the treatment itself that requires a multidisciplinary team and in a particularly important area of surgery and that fourth psychological and general social support. Each of these areas needs to be given something more important, but in order to point out where the problem is, the biggest problem of our strategies and what is missing is that this would really be one of those who will not only be adopted but really meet the expectations of those who have been waiting so long, lies in the next. So, colleague Natalija Martincevic said that this strategy contains deadlines, this strategy actually does not have real deadlines. The deadline is not when you say what Croatia wants to become by 2030, what our vision is, that is not the goal. The deadlines would be, for example, to sum up certain key problems such as late diagnosis and consequent delay in starting treatment, insufficient availability of optimal diagnostic procedures, non-compliance with standardised diagnostic protocols and monitoring of treatment effects, the lack of rational use of existing limited resources. So, that's a summary of the problem, we detect some 15 activities, all the specifics are those activities that the profession itself suggested as those that should be implemented and I agree with that. But where's the problem? For example, when we say to define optimal algorithms for diagnostics and monitoring of treatment for the most common types of cancer, with no further reading, several stakeholders are listed as the Ministry of Health, HZZO, etc., but it does not say which institution takes on a specific task and within what time. I believe that not only this one, but all the strategies that the Croatian Parliament is adopting should be designed to do so. So I repeat the adoption of this strategy, it is highly diagnosed, all of which would actually improve the care of cancer patients. So, the doctor's profession has given its own, but there is a lack of that political and organisational factor to take over and deploy specific tasks to concrete bodies within concrete deadlines, so every strategic document should appear because only on the basis of such a document can it be monitored whether public authorities are doing their job as it is expected and requested and only so can representatives of how the political parties of such professions, interested associations, media and the general public are able to monitor whether the states of commitments are being committed, whether the government has taken responsibility for itself and promised when the same authority and has fought for it. I believe that these shortcomings cannot be compensated for in subsequent implementing acts because then it only creates confusion and confusion and from one under-degraded and inadequately prepared system we have that from one strategy that extends its vision to the next ten years we will have some sort of patching and patching up, not something that we will all be able to rely on as a document that will make at least one kind of disease a clear and concrete plan and then monitor whether we have made any quality progress in the fight with cancer. Here's the rest I'll say in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24479	Now it's Madam's turn, we move on to individual debates and it's Mrs. Mariana Pettir's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24480	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. The fight against cancer is, by all standards, a national strategic and security issue, and given the covid crisis, it becomes an even greater challenge but must not be allowed to make this covid crisis the only concern and preoccupation of the health system. This is an opportunity for all healthcare professionals to thank for the sacrificial and superhuman efforts they make to ensure the timely and quality of care for all those in need. The cancer diagnosis gets nearly 25,000 people in the Republic of Croatia each year, with as many as 14000 people passing away. Malignant diseases are the most common cause of mortality. They are responsible for as many as 27% of deaths in Croatia. Taking into account the above data, the specific historical and emotional truth about cancer and the fact that it affects almost all Croatian cancer families is a public health and social problem. This can be witnessed by each one of us whose loved ones are suffering from cancer and who struggle daily with this severe disease. The national anti-cancer strategy is also a model of a truly and widely needed health system reform involving over a hundred domestic and foreign cancer experts. All phases of prevention from primary prevention, early detection, accurate diagnostics, availability of adequate procedures and therapy are covered, down to palitative care, which in Croatia still does not have its necessary and important place in the system. With the adoption of the National Strategic Framework against Cancer, Croatia will be in a position to use EU dedicated anti-cancer means that would significantly help in the realisation of targets, the successful fight against cancer, and significantly better outcomes of treatment for cancer patients. When I entered the Croatian Parliament as one of the youngest advocates in 2002, one of the first initiatives that I received from a father who died in 2002 was that something urgent was to be done to detect breast cancer early, as according to his words, more than breast cancer was dying annually than a defense attorney died in the Homeland War. It was a frantic data that totally shaken me and, together with associations, I worked to raise awareness to the public about early breast cancer detection and I am glad that not only was the national programme for early breast cancer detection, but also the one for the detection of uterus cancer, colon cancer, lung cancer, and, at the same time, the most common forms of cancer among our citizens. The treatment of most cancer forms is more successful if cancer is diagnosed on time in the early stages and therefore these national programmes are extremely important. However, it is necessary to inform the public about early symptoms and signs of cancer and to train doctors to properly diagnose and symptoms as soon as possible. One of the important problems of the oncology care system is the slow and unrelated diagnostic process. After reference to diagnostic processing, patients face the problem of insufficient and unequal availability of optimal diagnostic procedures from both the time point of view and from the point of view of quality, which is in the circumstances of the battle with the crown despite all the efforts that are being made further difficult. Up to 25% of patients are potentially mistreated due to inadequate radiological processing, while at the same time many patients are unnecessarily referred to individual tests. It is therefore necessary to remove the problems identified, and this strategy should be implemented as soon as possible. Among the measures mentioned in the strategy in terms of cancer prevention and improvement in quality of life is the implementation of tax policy measures to improve food, which I particularly welcome. This includes availability, availability, acceptability of healthier food products, increased availability of proper nutrition in public and social nutrition facilities. That's what I stand for permanently. Such a measure can help raise the quality of our citizens' lives. It will also contribute to a stronger placement of quality Croatian agricultural products on our citizens' tables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24481	Please remain, for Mr. Ante Babic has asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24482	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Petir, you mentioned in your presentation the important EU funds, probably everything that happens with the new budget and new budgets at EU level, as well as all new funds that will be set up. As far as this strategy is concerned, if we look at EU funds there, we can share perhaps the most advantageous funds related to primary prevention, which is education and all we can possibly use through the social fund, but also the building of a palitarian institution which we must acknowledge is also a major problem in the Republic. And some institutions that could definitely be built in our rural areas, not just hospital departments. Well, I'm just curious in your opinion how ready we are, that's all. how much opportunity it will be to just use for such EU programmes as you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24483	Thank you. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24484	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So I have to say that you have in fact well determined where the greatest potential lies and that is why it is very important that we adopt this National Strategy, which is indeed precisely aimed at the root of the problem and prescribes measures that have been worked on by really many excellent experts. But I would say that apart from this awareness and early discovery that is extremely important and I want to repeat the majority of cancers once again is treatable if discovered in time. It is also an important and palitative concern, because everyone deserves a dignified life from the very beginning to the natural death. And there is also one potential for EU funding. But I would also add diagnostics, because I believe with cleverly designed programs that will be able to withdraw financial resources for adequate diagnostic equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24485	Thank you very much. No more replicas, thank you. Mrs. Nada Murganic is on her way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24486	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Minister, the esteemed Deputys, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Surely I will join those who will express the satisfaction of having such a significant document in front of us and surely we will all support it together. Of course, in that individual discussion, each of us gives a focus on something he may be more interested in. Because through this debate, she might be speaking some of the thoughts that I have personally. As my colleague Jeckov said, there is none of us here who has had the opportunity to see a patient who is ill with this serious disease, and perhaps from the point of view of some of the experiences that I have had in my work and profession before this work in the Assembly. In fact, what we all need to know together is that when a patient faces a diagnosis of this severe disease, it is certain to launch different mechanisms in it as well as in how to deal with it. Already, the word cancer or malignancies in us causes a fear, fear, a patient experiences both different and ups and downs of anger, disappointments, and then optimism. However, certainly the worst option is not to give up and give up treatment. But what I would like to point out is that all psychological suffering is not only him but also his entire family. It is particularly difficult when a child is sick, when a partner is sick and together with another partner with another child, that is, children go through these stages of a difficult family dynamic. Because we know that the disease then reduces psychological, social activity and we can also say the sexual activity of the patient himself. But what is important is to point out that it is isolated from the world of work and that it is financially suffering not only him but the whole family. Such support is needed psychologically since the time of establishment and diagnosis. Some patients need about 60% of them who need this psychological and other support. Some people need to be treated all the time. How safe his mental health depends on the course of treatment, and family support is also important. The family should be just as strong and stable to be able to go through all this together with the patient. And what I may have said to the minister himself in this replica, I think that apart from the very treatment that is extremely important to diagnose and everything really on the professional side is more said by doctors. There's a fellow MP here a lot about it. I think it's also important that the end, a worthy end to life, is worth dying for. In the retirement homes we talked about, I had opportunities as a young social worker to be fascinated by how, in what way older, experienced sisters with dying patients spend those last days where they are given psychological help, support, provide spiritual help to the patient himself and their family members. There's already a beginning of mourning at that stage, and I think it's all about living together and thinking about it. So my question was on the trail not only about the development of palitative care, but also about the development of this hospice, or hospice approach. And I'll just say, there's still time for that prevention. It's very important, it's an important education. We used to call the health enlightenment of the people. And what I have to say is that when we talk about the education of health and professional other workers, defectologists, social workers, psychologists who are very important because of this interdisciplinary approach, I won't even talk about medical workers. They're actually the carriers and backbones of all this system. But we also need to talk about how we have a responsibility to our health as individuals. I will state only the fact that in Croatia we have 4 national prevention programs – breast cancer, colon cancer, uterine cancer detection, lung cancer prevention, and that the response to these calls for preventive examinations is very, very low and that thesewolves as we call them very often end up in the trash, and we need to think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24487	Thank you. Stay because Mrs. Maja Grba Bujevic asked for a replica first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24488	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Murganic. Since we're both from Karlovec, I'm going to tell you a little bit about statistics. Reforms within 5 subsystems of oncology, so in primary and secondary prevention, diagnosis, treatment of palitative care in ten years can save the city the size of Karlovac. That's a big number. We both know how many people live in Karlovac and if in those 10 years we manage to save so many lives, and I'm sure this strategy is the beginning of a plan to respond to cancer I think it's important to mention this statistics. I'm sure you'll agree with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24489	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24490	So here I had this one individual approach, a family approach, and clearly when such figures are spoken they are large numbers, and certainly that is why the implementation of this National Prevention Programme is very welcome and we will clearly try and spend it all together with the goal of reducing mortality and that we have in any case the quality of life of them and their families. And I think it's a comprehensive approach that depends on then and the success of the treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24491	And Mr. Ante Kujundzic. Natalija Martincevic before. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24492	Your Honor, you spoke in most of your debate on psychological assistance. We know that it is extremely important, and it is especially important at this point not only for cancer patients but also in the middle of the pandemic. So, a large number of people are under stress especially older people, they're lonely. We have an increase in domestic violence. Some of the first statistics already show this, but this is seen by the number of calls to the Blue Phone and other such services. In your opinion, is this psychological help, a network of psychological assistance in Croatia good enough or is there room. I personally think that there's a lot of space people need someone they can call, they need someone to provide them with, they need some help. I don't think that's high enough in Croatia right now. So what are your thoughts on how this system psychologically helps and improves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24493	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24494	Of course it has not been fully developed and certainly very often were popular in the public let's say both the instructions and information on various SOS phones that have been specialized and intended for one particular purpose, i.e. certain states. We have been most recently talking about calling for help in connection with violence, but it is certain that these needs require this kind of conversation. Since we are now in a new time, and we have already begun to get used to contacts that are not close, but are also enabled by different technologies at a distance. I think it's certainly one of the needs that should be perfected, but it doesn't all fall under this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24495	Thank you. And now, as always, for technical reasons in the video of Mr. Kujundzic's replica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24496	Thank you, Chairman. Dear counterpart Murganic, not agreeing with many moves, I personally concerned the Staff of criteria and measures, and late and kicky Ricky compensation to healthcare professionals in this covid madness. I think they deserve praise. The truth is, we may have had this document a long time ago, but we didn't, and I don't think we should put an apostrophe on it today and here. I personally respect it when people try to make things better even if it's paper, especially when it comes to this disease strategy that has no rules, it's not about years of age, it's about howling and asking. I hope that this document, the amended amendments, will indeed achieve the goal of reducing the number of deaths and the number of patients, and would be politically incorrectly not to praise... The food it consumes buys in stores, and water quality from water systems. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Because other than the increase in cancer patients, I would like to note a marked increase in the number of infertile couples [[/Intruder Radin: Here's some more. It hasn't been heard before. Here's some more.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24497	Yeah, who are we praising? We haven't heard from him since the commendation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24498	It didn't come out, if you can narrow it down in 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24499	So, by not agreeing with certain moves of the Minister bound inside and the Staff itself and the compensation, Kiki Ricky's compensation to health care workers I think he deserves praise here. The suma sumarum actually my replica is that this strategy needed us a long time ago, wasn't brought in. And I wouldn't waste my time on that either. I think we should commend the minister as such for bringing this document. And what's important, please just five more seconds, interrupt me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24500	Now we get it. Here you go, Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24501	No, did you hear the final part?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24502	Listen, it's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24503	I know, but he's interrupting me. Well, I'm not the chairman's fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24504	Well, two minutes have passed already.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24505	So, I wanted to. Well, he knows, but here's his colleagues agreeing in the assembly. So,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24506	All right, all right. Mrs. Murganic. You're confusing me, too. Mrs. Murganic, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24507	Well, I'm sorry I didn't hear the whole line. You'll have a safe chance to repeat that now to another colleague or colleague. I would certainly agree with you that this document is important and I would agree with you that you need a minister regardless of the various problems that have now been found in our society to give full support and commendation. Because if we didn't have an emergency situation for the covid of the crisis, we would already see the successes of the changes that this minister and his team would have introduced into a desirable health system. Well, I think that part we agreed on, and as far as the second part of the replica is concerned, I'm sorry, there may be other opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24508	Thank you very much. I hope you're satisfied. Mr. Kujundzic, there's a little bit of damage in your place, you don't hear it very well, you know. Try to see if you can fix it, and we'll fix the air in the hall now so we'll take a ten minute break and open the windows. Up to 12 and 10. It's 12 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.10 HOURS]] Let's keep working. Now it's Mrs. Renata Sablar Dračevac's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24510	Dear Vice President, Minister, Assistant Minister, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. I'm still going to focus a little bit, I know that the biggest innovative part and the most significant part of the amount of direction, the prevention that will be implemented in this national strategic plan. But I would still focus a little on the curatives, because I've been warned from the field that we have a lot of problems, that is, a lot of uncertainty from colleagues and colleagues from smaller backgrounds. Therefore, the proposal for a national anti-cancer plan provides for the creation of an oncology network within which these clinical centres would constitute the basic points for the implementation of oncological treatment. Non-clinical centres would also be included in the national oncology network. But there's a question of accreditation standards for these non-clinical centres. Whether these centres will become an integral part, whether they will be all or just a few, is also clear from the plan to give them the powers of local centres, i.e. national centres, i.e. whether the application will be relevant to us, the application of therapy is particularly modern, new therapy, whether it will be possible to apply in these non-clinical centres. Therefore, only 30% of the population of the Republic of Croatia oncology care and treatment can be achieved in their counties, i.e. in county and general hospitals, while 18% of the population lives in counties where there is currently no oncological care. And I think we should definitely think about getting those counties quality oncology care. In some centres during 2018, so when we add them all together there were 36 specialists from different areas, meaning oncological radiotherapy, interstitial oncology, not to list it now. As planned, it means 2024 projections, we expect these specialists to be 50. Of course, if new centres were to be established, there should be more specialists. The implementation of the construction project is under way, so according to the radiotherapy development plan, the Ministry of Health predicted the establishment of the Radiotherapy Department for the General Hospital of Zadar in 2016. The implementation of the project of construction and equipment of the daily hospital, the Department of Pulmology, Oncology, Infectology, Dermatology of the General Hospital of Zadar, and the adaptation and equipment of the daily hospital of the Office of Surgery, which will include a space for the radiotherapy device. The total project value of nearly 50 million kuna is co-financed by EU Regional Development Funds. I hope that all your projects will be implemented to the end. The development of multidisciplinary teams is certainly one excellent way, although I think most of the centers already have it. And what matters to us in these multidisciplinary teams, so with modern technology, all those segments that are missing in non-clinical institutions, or centres, they must be compensated. So you can fill these teams with all the experts from, so from clinical hospitals and then they're quality, complete and can do complete therapy, which is at the very end of the line and the goal. Currently, one third of patients who exercise the right to immunotherapy travel to their home counties, which must therefore be treated from the parent county. That's the problem. Here is a particular problem, for example, in Dubrovnik where a patient travels 230 km in one direction and so far back. This causes great distress in patients, and it is recommended that this journey should not be more than 80 km. It is certainly necessary to make cost-benefit analysis so that it can be profitable and financially justified treatment from 230 km away KBC as it is away from KBC Split from Dubrovnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24511	Thank you, too. Mr. Ante Kujundzic has a replica. Let's see how the technique works. Here you go. Mr. Kujundzic, you have a replica. Can't you hear anything?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24512	Thank you. Here you can see that I've changed my position since it's interrupted me. But if I'm interrupted now, the only thing left to do is climb onto the roof of the house. But I would go back to what I actually wanted to say. So, I think the minister here deserves praise. The truth is, we should have brought this document back a long time ago, but we didn't, and I don't think that today, now and here we should be putting an apostrophe on it. I personally respect it when people try to make the situation better even if it is papered mainly when it comes to this strategy and the disease that has no rules, it is not unfortunately for years of age but for harras, and it asks us nothing more often. I hope that this document, the amended amendments, will indeed achieve the goal, and this goal is actually to reduce the number of deaths and the number of patients. And it would be politically incorrect at least here not to compliment him, so I commend our Willie. What I think we should tie to this strategy is the definition of the food parameters we consume and we can buy in the water trade and quality of the water from the water systems. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Now the technique is going well, but the chronometer is also going well.... Here, I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24513	Thank you very much. No, no. [[Intruder Kujundzic: Only one sentence.]] Thank you very much. It doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately. [[/Attack Kujundzic: In addition to the increase in cancer patients, I would note a marked deterioration in the number of infertile couples. Thank you.]] Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24514	Here's a thank you, pal on the replica. I would certainly advise you to report to the other speaker immediately, but then proceed where you have stopped to tell us everything you intend to tell us. Yeah, this is really comprehensive, okay. We hope that these things will also take place in implementing measures, that they will therefore take care of these details that are not yet well defined and that certainly cause fear in patients and fear in doctors, or clinicians who work in oncology departments. These are quality frames and therefore, it's much easier to go to treatment in your environment than to some outside environment. That path is problematic, causing a patient's interference, and you always have an oncologist's disposition. It does not happen to you, for example, in some other environments where when you come to treatment, specialists come to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24515	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. And Mr. Bully raised his hand. Oh, no? Okay. Now it's Mr. Ivan Celic's turn. And I'm sorry, Maja Grba-Bujevic. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24516	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleague Catalinic. Here is the National Strategic Framework against Cancer has 12 chapters and 143 goals that will contribute to the outcome of treatment of cancer patients to a level above the European average. It has been developed in accordance with the current World Health Organisation and EU guidelines. Reforms within these 5 subsystems of oncology of primary and secondary prevention, diagnosis and treatment of palitative care in 10 years can save the city the size of Karlovac. The draft was drawn up by 21 working groups involving 250 people, experts in their field of work as well as representatives of the Civil Society Association. It's important for the prominent. Once again, I'm going to highlight the European Code of Cancer, so maybe we can remind ourselves here. No tobacco products, diet is important, physical activity is important, body weight is important, alcohol, exposure to the sun, health and safety instructions at work, safe environment in the home, women in breastfeeding and hormonal therapy, children vaccination and preventive programs. A comprehensive approach through primary and secondary prevention of diagnosis, treatment plan, psychological support for rehabilitation, social reintegration, monitoring and palitative care. This document guarantees a rapid reaction to multidisciplinaryism which is extremely important, standardisation and most important of all quality implementation. Fully, we will have a complete and quick response to the health system because it will actually be optimised, standardized therapeutic procedures. That's very important in medicine. Connect and cooperation in the region of the Republic of Croatia. Now we have a lot of centers that work great, but we have parts that aren't included in that network. Monitoring the outcome of treatment. There are many things we have said about the outcomes of the treatment and much more needs to be done. What's also important is the collection of data into a single database. Only when you have relevant data, when you collect these data can you make some decisions. Quality control and promotion should not be spent on those words. It's something that has to be done, and the medics know it very well. And now a little bit more about statistics. In one cost-effectiveness analysis, we can have two scenarios. One is to spend this, and the other is to keep it as it is today. For the 10 most common cancers in the Republic of Croatia, the results of the analysis show that in the first scenario if we do this, nearly 3,500 people will not get cancer, 7,000 additional patients will survive with cancer, and the population will have an additional 114,392 years of life compared to if we leave everything as before. What is so important is to point out that oncology is put here as a health priority. She has to and always has to be a priority. It ensures, through the continuity of health care, the cooperation of health professionals, the cooperation and responsibility of patients for their own health. Now the cancer in Croatia is taking 14,000 lives a year, but the funds are provided here to implement this which is extremely important. This is an over-party and super-political issue, so I hope that we Parliamentarians will give this National Strategic Cancer Framework a unique support no matter what policy options they come from. That way we will always save someone's dear human life. In order to say this, our friends from Croatia's anti-cancer initiative who are associated with oncology patients, whom I sincerely thank this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24517	Thank you, too. Mr. Bully now has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24518	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to look back at this patient strategy for those who are the most vulnerable. I believe that this strategy is well written, only afraid of leaving a dead letter on paper as well as a number of other strategies and laws such as people with disabilities, so that theirs is written nothing, so we have problems in the end. I would just point out here that the Republic of Croatia does not have an independent right to healthcare. Simply right here in Split-Dalmatia County and in Dalmatia we have KBC only 500 thousand inhabitants away and Herzegovina is sitting there, so that even a million people are bound there. We've got one hospital. I've been making amendments. And not only that, primary and health care in Split-Dalmatia County in the House of Health is simply all diagnostics are so destroyed that even from Makarska to extract blood we must send to Kastela 100 km to the laboratory to get results and similar things that should not happen. I would also have to point out that here I said that the government boasted that for defenders, Croatian defenders who were 1800 days longer in the war. Here's Christian Petric is a man, a humanitarian who collects money, a disabled Homeland War, more than 1800 days. In 2014, the disease was severe. No one has ever called him from the ministry regardless of whether the Croatian government received a serious illness. No one called him. So let's not let people have the same rights either in Sinj or in Dalmatia Zagora or in Imotski or in Gorski Kotar. These people are forgotten. I'm literally repeating. Women for the ultrasound of the breast for six months wait to enroll, and then they don't have a chance. It's the health and county homes that have put our people's health at risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24519	Let us move on immediately, so that you have a replica? Let us move on immediately and you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24520	Comrade Bujević, the strategy for cancer patients is written. We commend people who have made great effort. However, what is written on paper is unfortunately not applicable in the Republic of Croatia. We have a constitution where it's said that we all have to have the same right to medical services. That's not true. Much greater rights are given to people living in Zagreb and close to Zagreb. First of all, people in these two-thirds of Croatia, the Dalmatian Zagora, Slavonia, the Gorski kotar have no possibility.Here are the women I repeat for the examination of the ultrasound of the breast have no possibility of six months they have been able to wait. And that day when the enrollment was, they would die, push in ranks to enroll. In the House of Health it was Sinj, and in Vrgorec, Imotski, they have no opportunity. So basic diagnostics don't have women's opportunities in these areas. So we have too much paper, and in reality we're not carrying anything, and that's a huge problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24521	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24522	Dear fellow Bulj, all those who have ever made a strategy and participated in the very creation of the document know that an additional document is being followed behind this document that speaks of the action implementation of the anti-cancer plan. I therefore agree with you and it is precisely the intention of this strategic framework to bring opportunities to all who do not live in large centres as you yourself said they have better quality and better health care. That's exactly what this plan is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24523	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24524	My colleague Bujević injured Article 238. In her first sentence, she said we had an action plan. This isn't a matter of action plan. But what's written on paper is not implemented in reality. [[I didn't say that.]] People literally also die in rows to get a basic examination of breast ultrasounds in Split-Dalmatia County. The mayor's concerns, the mayor's concerns, the MP's concerns. And they don't even support the amendments, they don't support the amendments on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24525	Let's let it go, please. You know you have a warning. Is that right? He's got a warning. Let's go. You have a warning, and you can give it to yourself if you want, you already know that. All right, let's move on. [[Intruder Bull: I confess the reminder.]] Is it an injury? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24526	I would just like to point out to the chairman, the prominent violation of Mr Bulj's Rules of Procedure. Infringement of Article 238 So at one point even attacks Mrs. Grbu-Bujevic, and on the other hand she makes clear the fact that people die in columns, women die in columns. In my county I live I never heard of it. Maybe in his house it's different, in our county it's not like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24527	Thank you very much. You had a replica, too. I have to give you a warning, because he got a warning for what you said he got a gentleman. And now we're moving on. Replica Mr. Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24528	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned different types of prevention to the respected representatives of Grba-Bujević. When we talk about primary prevention, therefore the most preventive cause of premature mortality and pain in the world is smoking, also alcohol, and it should absolutely work to promote healthy lifestyles. And when we talk about the tertiary prevention part regarding pain relief is something that is from your anesthesiological profession and there is the Croatian Society for Pain Treatment, Dr. Fingler, Dr. Radosh. They were highly engaged in this area and issued certain official guidelines. I'm interested in how you see, therefore, the contribution of anesthesiological profession to tertiary prevention when we talk about chronic non-infectious diseases, especially malignant diseases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24529	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24530	Thank you, fellow Cellic. It's a profession which is my primary specialty, and an anesthesiologist and reanimatologist is intensive medicine. And through that specialization, there's actually a lot of attention to the pain. This has progressed significantly compared to the time of my specialization. You mentioned a colleague named Fingler, but I have to mention a primarius Persoli who was actually an ideal beginner of all those events that hurt later. Of course, it is very important to prevent the pain of malignancies, for we must not allow any pain to a man nowadays. It doesn't have to be from malignancies, but other kinds of pain we have. It's our job as a medic and as a doctor and as a nurse to work on it a lot. That it does not happen that people are not deprived of the right to end their lives painlessly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24531	Thank you. Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24532	Thank you. Dear Vice President, you have pointed out that a large number of experts in different specialities and subspecies have worked on this strategy. Of course, regardless of their political, secular or ideological commitment. And I think that unity will also be passed on in voting in this House when we adopt this National Strategy. Why am I pointing that out? It's very important. It's important because these patients pointed out we're in an extremely difficult situation they and their families. And if experts especially in the public space are different views, different approaches and different ideas about treatment it is good, it is a good phrase and debate on what is better in a professional sense. But there you should be careful because in public space it often confuses people who need to trust professionals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24533	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24534	Thank you, colleague Murganic. When drawing up a strategy, it is very important to include as many experts as possible and as widely interested in the public as possible, because it is these people who know the needs they need, and here on the other hand we have experts who know what can be provided in individual portfolios. So it is boundlessly important that we all have the same opinion together that we need this national strategic framework against cancer, that it is good, that the document that will come out of it and that is the action plan for how this will be implemented. So this is going to come up with an action plan that's going to be implemented, that's actually the way to give all of our cancer patients the best, better and healthier life in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24535	The replica of Ms. Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24536	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Members, here I would refer to your debate and stress that this proposal for a strategic framework has three important directions of action and this is the first promotion of a healthier lifestyle and prevention of harmful life habits. Second, determining the timely health condition of the patient and the third comprehensive treatment of malignancies in order to ensure that anyone who needs proper therapy is treated.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24537	Thank you, colleague. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24538	I'm sorry, I have to give you my word as per Article 238, I have to give you a warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24539	Thank you. Excuse me. Dear colleagues, you're right. A lot has been done so far to promote a healthy lifestyle. You yourself know that a few years ago, or a few years ago, it wasn't so expressed in public space that it was about the need for movement, about the need for activity. Many associations have worked on this, and they should also be thanked. Because there was a lot of work done by the Ministry of Health through public-preventive programmes run by the Croatian Institute of Public Health. You've got a healthy diet, it's got a great fat prevention project, it's got non-smoking, but we've got a lot of work to do on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24540	Mrs. Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24541	Thank you very much, Vice President. Among other things, you spoke about the importance of preventive examinations, so I would also point out that praises are worth national programmes for early detection of colon cancer, which includes persons over 50 years of age, and women are extremely important and significant National early breast cancer programme that includes women over 40 years of age. And on this occasion, I would invite all our fellow citizens to respond to those calls because the exams are saving lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24542	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24543	Exactly. It's nice of you to mention it in your replica, but I have to say that it's really a little bit of an alarmingly weak response to preventive checks. This and we as parliamentary representatives can make a major contribution to promoting such programs, not only by responding but by spreading the good word that preventive programs save lives because it is the real truth. I can, on my example, say that a preventive examination today actually made it possible for me to be alive with my family.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24544	Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24545	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, here I am going to single out this minute to just mention a number of cancer cases specific to women such as breast cancer, which makes up a quarter of all cases of cancer in Croatia and uterus cancer, which makes up 9% of cancer cases in Croatia. We see from the statistics that 11,000 women are diagnosed with cancer annually. This strategy is a great thing. We've been expecting her for a long time. But if we don't all raise awareness of the public together and everything in Croatia how important preventive checks are to us, we won't do much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24546	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24547	That's right. Dear colleague Maximchuk, that's exactly how if we don't work very hard to raise awareness of the need for preventive checks, we won't have good results. This shows relevant research into medical literature. Therefore, it is truly up to all of us to work honestly and openly to support this National Strategic Framework against Cancer and work very hard on it with common forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24548	Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24549	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I don't think it's at all questionable whether the opposition will support this strategy. I think it's quite clear after this debate, from everything we'll support. We all agree that a consensus is needed, but not just a consensus on cancer, but on the whole of health care. You were talking about improving living conditions, proper nutrition, etc. We agree that prevention is number one. But it's not being spent enough. One theory is one practice. So for example, for the problem of diabetes, you are likely to know that almost 20% of the HZZO budget is going to treat diabetes, or care and that even 48% is going to treat complications. So this is a quality document regarding the Strategy to Fight Cancer, but we will see what implementation will be like in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24550	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24551	One preventive program of the Croatian Institute of Public Health speaks, it is actually called Hello to Live. It includes sensitisation from childhood and further how proper feeding should be done. You, as an intern, and I know something about this diabetes, actually, it's usually caused by a malnutrient diet that we make ourselves, and we contribute to getting diabetes. We can influence these things. It is therefore necessary to develop these preventive programmes further. It is not pessimistic to look at it, but to look optimistic, and in that we can all make a contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24552	And finally, Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24553	Thank you, Chairman. Since I'm a little interrupted by the Internet connection, and then the chairman is the third replica to say one whole. But thank God it's here. If I could give the chairman a personal warning. Dear colleagues of Grba-Bujevic, I would like to conclude with one important question, so I would like you to say something about this issue and a possible strategy that is a serious issue for the demographic image of our Croatia. But I think it also has an impact on the development of cancer itself, which is to define the food parameters that we consume and we can buy in stores, and at the same time the quality of water from water supply systems. Because in addition to the increase in cancer patients, I would point out a marked increase in the number of infertile couples in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24554	I couldn't figure out what you said at the beginning, but don't repeat it because I won't understand again, but you'll tell me when you'll be back healthy in Parliament. Okay? Okay. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24555	Now I don't know what to say. Paul, I didn't hear you. I'm going to try to guess what you were actually going to say. I'm very sorry to hear that. There's nothing left to tell me that I hope everyone will support this strategy. And as everyone said, I was very pleased that the Committee on Health and Social Policy unanimously supported this National Strategic Framework against Cancer and that we all have a lot of work to do. Only if we join forces as usual in life will we get good results. I'm really sorry I didn't hear you. So now I've said mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24556	And wishes for everyone in isolation to return as soon as possible. And now you have no more replicas. Thank you. Mr. Ivan Celic is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24557	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I will, as I said, take a brief look at the part about psychological support, rehabilitation and reintegration of cancer patients. Last year's global survey involving 4000 subjects who conducted... An international NGO based in Brussels has shown that 7 out of 10 people suffering from malignancies should have psychological support either during or after cancer care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 34%, therefore, is on a global level, it is not a country-specific data. Such results would likely be in the Republic of Croatia. 34% of those in need of psychological support, this psychological support was inaccessible. 41% received no information from their medical team where they could get that psychological support, so in some civil sector organization or at some psychological center. Psychological distress is common among cancer patients. These are the most common manifestations of the processing of information, regrets for the decision to choose treatment. Some patients feel that they have not been asked enough about which decision to choose and of course fear that cancer will return. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, malignancies often run out of work, and these financial problems are something that certainly increases psychological distress. When we talk about cancer as well as covid, so we usually think about physical symptoms first, but other than the body component, apart from the physical aspect, other dimensions are important. So both at the beginning and during and after treatment, and unfortunately and in the terminal phase, these psychosocial aspects, the spiritual aspect of what MP Murganić spoke about in people who are in the dying phase, are something that is extremely important both for themselves and for their family members. Unfortunately, we have a situation that we meet on a daily basis to keep in mind that she has a malignant disease even within her family, and so on outwards. And in fact, he's in a double-steam situation, so the Stigma carried by cancer disease and the Stigma that reflects the emotional state in which that person is. That is why it is vital that we reach this level to discuss her emotions with a person who suffers from malignancies. In medical schools lately, more and more colleges related to communication skills, among other things, it is not easy to have a skill to say the bad news, and after a statement of bad news how in the second phase to talk about their own feelings and for this it is not necessary to have a professional assessment or it is not necessary to talk to a psychologist or psychiatrist at that point. It could be someone close to us. There is, of course, a lot of space, and I believe that this strategic framework will be an important document that will improve the quality of life of malignancies, but here I will briefly mention a good example of clinical practice relating to clinical guidelines for on-coplastic breast cancer treatment. So there are 3 diagnostic, therapeutic and rehabilitation teams within the multidisciplinary team. The rehabilitation team should be a psychiatrist and psychologist, so in the first part of this protocol it is important to identify emotionally the most vunerable patients, it is also again related to the selection of the risk group of people who may have malignancies. It's also important here to identify the most emotionally unstable patients. There are exactly times when this emotional distress is greater. In Part Two, the protocol defines rehabilitation as a recovery process. So it's a long-term process where psychological support is when we talk about quality of life. a person with malignancy is very important. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24558	Thank you very much. Looks like your speech was encouraging because you have more replicas. The first replica, and the violation of Mr. Kujundzic's Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Mr. Kujundzic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24559	Respect, Your Honor, the chairman. Article 238 has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24560	You say, tell me where, where?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24561	A fellow cell what escaped me from my previous replica... Do I hear from you? [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24562	No, you can't hear anymore, and it saves you from a warning. You can't hear it anymore, so we can't hear anything. Sir, Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24563	Thank you very much. A respected pandemic colleague has changed the lives of all of us, and then we can imagine how much she has had an additional effect on cancer patients. You said in your discussion that there were indications that 7 out of 10 patients needed psychological counselling. All of us who have met in our families with this malignant disease know how much psychological support, but also family support matters. But that psychological support isn't just for patients, sometimes it's for the whole family. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24564	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24565	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maximchuk, I agree with you, and it has been mentioned many times today that it is a malignant disease, a disease where the whole family is affected, and that is why psychological support is important. There are groups of self-supports, therefore for people who suffer from a malignant disease, but also for groups of self-supports and for members of their families. So this psychological evaluation is necessary after we have faced a diagnosis and all the time this therapeutic process is being, it takes every time to do a certain psychological evaluation. The evaluation of the mental state on which certain decisions and certain therapeutic interventions can then be made. What I would say is that now these therapeutic interventions are well developed and in online mode, which is good, because unfortunately we know that the situation of Zagreb and other parts of Croatia is still on the issue equalitys vary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24566	Thank you very much. Mr. Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24567	Thank you, Vice President. You pointed out today to your colleague that this National Strategic Framework in the fight against cancer is something that is supernatural, something that is superpolitical and that you are convinced, and I am also convinced that this document will be adopted here by a large majority not to say consensus. However, when we talk about malignant diseases, we are aware that there are different factors that condition the occurrence of malignant diseases, whether it is a family history, that it is genetic predisposition, that it is a lifestyle in terms of smoking, alcohol, obesity, etc., radiation exposure, the World Health Organization has estimated that up to 50% of malignancies can be prevented. I am interested in just through these preventions, primarily primary prevention, but also secondary and other what is done in Croatia, what else can be done in your opinion?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24568	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24569	Dear Representative Begonja, primary prevention I fear we should work in Croatia the most, but not just a health system. We can develop different preventive programs that are needed from the earliest age of life, but can't the health system itself assume that responsibility. There are public health institutions that are primarily part of a health system aimed at prevention, but you are mayor, the importance of the local community is extremely important, not only in the marking of public health manifestations such as the month of fighting cancer, there is, units of local self-government are very important, however the unity between local self-government units and NGOs can make their contribution to primary prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24570	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24571	Thank you, Vice President. You have highlighted the importance of the very psychosocial and spiritual aspect of this very strategy, which is normally related to your expertise. We must also point out that exactly the big problems arise both after the healing and in the rehabilitation of patients themselves and the return to society itself and reintegration. We also saw in this study that 60 patients, 60% of patients need at least initial psychological support, and 30% continuous. When we add up the number of patients and their families who are bound and burdened with cancer, we come up with a number of 800,000 or even a million people associated with cancer. I'm interested in your expert opinion exactly this psychological and psychiatric segment and the aspect of our health system, is it ready, is it enough to be able to cover so many numbers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24572	Thank you, too. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24573	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Representative Bačić, so that everything that is somehow above the standards in Zagreb is located the Clinical Hospital Centre of Split and the Oncology clinic is doing a really great job and has this psycho-oncology team involved. It's very important here that this psych education goes in two directions. So psycho-education to patients and members of their families, evaluations in the sense that some short-term or long-term interventions are needed. Psychotherapy, group psychotherapy here and cognitiveally behavioral gives the best results, but what is also very important is the education of health care professionals because unfortunately healthcare professionals who come from this somatic aspect are many times not sufficiently educated to get enough information and to realize how important it is for the quality of their patients' lives, this psychological support.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24574	Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24575	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, here's the very drama the patients and their families are going through from diagnosis to initiation of therapy is terrible. You as an excellent psychologist, can you tell us whether our society is well aware enough, whether we show enough empathy and whether we can invest more in education and society as well as, as a community, as well as in health care institutions where patients come to receive therapy, because we know that some times and people who are in there so that I say in the fight for naked life come some way to understanding, and it's much harder for them to fall psychologically than it is for the therapy they came for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24576	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24577	Thank you. Dear Representative Simicevic, I don't think we can be satisfied with the current situation in which we are and this national strategic framework is one foundation, one cornerstone that will allow both counties and cities and municipalities to develop different models according to their needs. I mentioned the question of Stigma, therefore, of malignant disease, but also of certain mental difficulties that often result from a certain psychological adjustment. It is an important education that we all have to work on, and I believe that the adoption of a national strategic framework will help make this psychological aspect, psychological and emotional well-being better covered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24578	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24579	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague how important it is to have certain abilities in order to access the patient properly and inform him that he has cancer, because it is very important for the healing itself to be positive and that the person returns to his normal life as soon as possible. It is also often discussed when you come to therapy about how long you will live instead of how well you will live. So I'd like to hear your experiences and recommendations that you may as a doctor can tell your colleagues how to treat a patient and how best to support him at these critical moments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24580	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24581	Thank you. Dear MPs Petir, almost a third of those suffering from malignancies need continued support. The most common mental problems are manifested in the form of anxiety-depressive disorders, post-traumatic stress disorders, adjustment disorders, and this very art of communicating how to get to this level so that a person who suffers from malignancy can talk about such mental capacity that he can talk about his own feelings is one step forward when we talk about an early stage. Unfortunately, some of the patients with malignancies are going towards palitative care and this topic of death, the subject of dying is often taboo also among health professionals, so it is important and a multidisciplinary approach to include psychologists and social pedagogues, but preferably if the person is a believer depending on the cleric or some A member of a certain religious division. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24582	Thank you. Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24583	Thank you, Vice President. In your discussion, you said one sentence that prompted me to this replica, which is that cancer patients often keep their disease secret and you said in the replica about the Stigma. So I would simplify therefore feeling one feeling perhaps and shame especially that other than these health and psychological problems and their physical appearance was significantly changed and it was something that closed them in the house, makes it impossible or delaying going to work in the world of work and is very often with psychological problems and it is one of the reasons for longer use of illness while perhaps the disease is already in, so healing that it could return and work. So, with everything we've said and resociation and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24584	Thank you, thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24585	Thank you. Dear counterpart Murganic, fear is one normal and natural reaction of every human being, and thus knowing that you are suffering from a certain malignant disease in the vast majority of cases will produce fear, but that fear can block especially in the first phase, but after a while that fear, especially if you are in a supportive environment, you can switch from negative to positive emotion and this can pose a kind of new challenge. As far as the working environment is concerned, I'm afraid that we are a bit rigid here, and if a certain prequalification is needed to keep a person working, you mentioned the fact that these are often long-term monthly illnesses, I think that this system should be much more flexible when we talk about the work sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24586	Yeah, I'm saying we all suffer from malignant disease because every minute we grow old is that it's a malignant disease too? ... How come, but this few times we had such a quality discussion. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Sir, Mrs. Renata Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24587	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, listening to you more and more, I see the need to urgently need a national strategy for the mental health of the nation. And that's something that we need to get out of the drawer urgently, because other than that where you all point out how much citizens need help just in this phase of rehabilitation, and on this team we should have experts in the field of mental health, imagine how many experts we're going to need, or how many experts we're going to need when this pandemic ends and when a whole spectrum of diseases come out of the area of anxiety, depression and other disorders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24588	Answer, Doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24589	Thank you. Dear Representative Sablar Dračevac, as regards the National Strategy for the Development of Mental Health until 2030, I fully agree with you there, I believe that the minister has heard and I hope that he will see the light of day as soon as possible. What I know is that there have been some problems related to the Strategic Planning Act and that this is now settled, so as we have welcomed this national strategic framework on cancer, I agree that it would be better if it had been passed yesterday and I will do everything I can to make that happen as soon as possible. As far as the psychological consequences of the Covida-19 epidemic are concerned, there will certainly be a lot of work, already there are and there are certain specific programmes that are already being implemented, and in the long run I believe that we will not be without a job either you or I.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24590	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Called or as we say Žvana Burnić, Brunić Brumnic, Brumnic. [[Intruder: Brumnic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24591	Dear colleague Cellic, I'm signing everything you said. The only problem is that you are part of the ruling majority, and then what you're saying is the issue of a system of functioning or systematic access to health care. And my question goes to this, can today's health care system such as the Republic of Croatia be able to respond with its capacities to these needs that you've been talking about? And what exactly are your solutions because it's obvious that it doesn't fit the system, these problems? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24592	Thank you, dear representative Brumnić, I have been working for 18 years in a health care facility at the Vrapce Psychology Clinic, and I think that even in these difficult times when the Croatian health system is overworked, it has some difficulties but it is very functional thanks to those who make this healthcare system, so doctors, medical staff, but also other healthcare workers, and I think that it will be able to respond adequately to the needs that are ahead of us. In this meeting, there are very many high-quality advocates and MPs sometimes it seems to me that what is perfectly legitimate is moving from the sector of the NGO sector remains in one active spirit, and then, on a flat-rate basis, there are certain qualifications, and I think we should be responsible here and as responsible people as representatives of the people. send clear decisions and recommendations. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24593	Thank you. The last replica of Ms. Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24594	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Celic here are colleagues who have already highlighted the importance of education of the general population in replicas. I'll just give you one example from practice. The patient comes to the first examination, the doctor diagnosed after the pathological test, and then the patient no longer shows up and doesn't want treatment because he doesn't realize how it can actually save his life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24595	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24596	Dear MPs Baradić, here, there is a need to upgrade the system as well as the national programme of breakthroughs against various cancer crops. I think we should increase the percentage here, and I'll tell you again from my daily clinical practice. So, at the time of the first closure that took place in the spring of this year when due to the recommended physical distance there was no, or rather there were restrictions in these usual ambulatory checks, we developed certain telepsychiatric interventions and we called our patients ourselves. So, let's say one of the models, the patients took it very nicely. So I'm working specifically with the addict population, they first met the situation that their doctor called them. I think they're gonna have to work on that field, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24597	Thank you very much, you don't have any other replicas, and now we're moving on to taking a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24598	Now we will return to our point that we talked about earlier and will continue with individual debates, and will be the first to speak with the respected representative Danica Baricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24599	Thank you very much, Vice President. It is clear that comprehensive monitoring, prevention, treatment of malignancies is possible through the planned implementation of the national strategic framework against cancer by 2030. The cancer is unfortunately part of our everyday life. The cancer is embedded in every port of our society. Every third person in the Republic of Croatia will suffer from cancer. Every year, more than 24 thousand new people are diagnosed. It is estimated that 170 thousand people living in the Republic of Croatia who have suffered from or are suffering from cancer. Taking into account only this data and the fact that it affects almost all Croatian families, it is evident that it is indeed a major public health problem, a social problem and that any improvement in this matter will bring about a better number of Croatian citizens. If we also consider high mortality, we could say that fighting cancer is also an important national, strategic but security issue. After 3 years of consultation, research, the debate before us is the National Strategic Framework, which, with the specific objectives set out, will allow specific actions, i.e. concrete activities, to enable the cancer oncology community in the Republic of Croatia to lead the outcome of cancer treatment to a level above the European average. Over 100 domestic and foreign experts who participated in its design covered all stages of cancer control from primary prevention, early detection, accurate diagnostics, availability of adequate procedures and therapy, all the way to palitative care, which in Croatia still does not have its right and necessary and important place in the system. The national strategic framework has been developed in accordance with the current guidelines of the European Union, and it should be pointed out that both the country's expert and public debate has been conducted as well as consultations with foreign consultants. The creation of this strategic document would save thousands of lives a year, and its strategic goal is to improve the health of citizens throughout life, reduce the incidence and mortality of cancer, and extend and increase the quality of life of cancer patients in Croatia. It's really never enough to talk about prevention and early cancer detection. The National Framework highlights activities to improve and systematically implement the primary prevention programme, including health promotion, awareness-raising, cancer education in order to reduce the incidence of cancer to the average of the European Union countries. The Strategy also highlights the importance and oncological education of both those directed towards the general population and those for healthcare professionals in order to establish optimal and continuous education of all health professionals in accordance with international standards, as well as a significant increase in the knowledge of the population on cancer issues. I would like here to really highlight the importance of connecting the further involvement of civil society and all of us individuals in planned preventive and educational activities. The Republic of Croatia is already spending considerable resources on fighting cancer, and implementation of the National Strategic Framework will require further investment to bring the treatment standards and health outcomes of Western European countries closer to the future. For this reason, it is of great importance to ensure a rational investment of anti-cancer funds from the point of view of costs and efficiency, and to ensure and achieve the greatest possible health benefits for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that, with the optimal and consistent application of this national strategic framework against cancer by 2030, it could significantly reduce the negative aspects of cancer to national public health and improve the overall health status of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24600	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative of Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24601	Thank you, Vice President. Your colleagues Baričević mentioned all the difficulties that unfortunately caused the tumor to pass and you normally went through some activities related to prevention but only treatment. At the beginning of the debate, Dr. Cellic has launched an initiative on free transportation of patients who are currently struggling with tumors, you are coming from the island, from the island of Brac we know with all the problems that just such patients have as much and actually the cost of treatment itself and how difficult it is to go to certain procedures and how remote the hospitals are, I think we should definitely support such an initiative, but here from the island of Brač we have good initiatives related to other groups and disabled people and those I think we can apply to patients related to the tumor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24602	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24603	Everyone thanks to Mr. Bačić, should certainly develop health care evenly so that it is available in every place, to all inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. You have touched the question of my island where I come from, for example, I will point out a positive example of the law which makes it possible for island children with developmental difficulties and their escorts to be here at the Croatian Parliament and has provided free ferry transport for their better care, which unfortunately cannot be provided on the island but in the city of Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24604	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24605	I thank the esteemed, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, we have been discussing for some time today about the adoption of the National Strategic Framework against Cancer until 2030, and this is exactly the direction of the debate that has taken place here and for the ruling and the opposition, I think it is good and that this is one document from which many of the strategies that we have been waiting for some time and well that we agree that the document is welcome and I believe that we will ultimately accept it by consensus and bring it to the Croatian Parliament next week. When we opened here I personally also thought that the debate should be exclusively we have a lot here and a doctor in our ranks that they will lead the discourse, and so it was, but I think it's definitely a very important topic in which we all should get involved. When we look at the figures and the Ministry of Health, but here is the State Department of Statistics, not to mention the World Health Organization where we see certain analyses and predictions through this national strategic framework itself where we see that the World Health Organization expects an increase from 18 million in 2018 to 29.5 million in 2040 and the number of deaths will rise from 9.5 to 16.4 million a year. When we see data that we are at the level of Western and developed European countries, too many deaths from tumour and cancer and malignancies, when we see that the Republic of Croatia, but generally Europe as an old continent and that these increases will primarily come because of population ageing, we can also see how important this document is that it is adopted, i.e. How commendable it will be that we bring it here and that it will bring all the good for the patients, not just for the patients, but for the general population of the Republic of Croatia. When we look at all segments that it includes the measures itself, but also what is most important and what is very important, and this is the very economic aspect and economic planning of the Ministry of Health that exactly implements the national strategic framework against cancer, thus showing the normal and seriousness of this document. As I mentioned statistics and that cancer is the second most common cause of mortality, that is the leading cause of mortality in people under 65 years of age, these are all the things that we really need to worry about. We all wear these badges today, and we get one letter and a coalition of associations in health care and associations of cancer women, which normally leads to this route, and we thank them where they themselves are calling for us to adopt this document as soon as possible and how we will save 114 thousand, 114 thousand lives within the period 2020 and 2030, and where they normally invite us to a consensus and that this is a problem when we count 170 thousand people who suffer or suffer from cancer, when we count their families, it goes up to almost a million of our Croatian citizens, and we know what difficulties this all brings to our families. When we look at the document itself, it is summed up through certain parts, it starts from primary prevention to secondary prevention, early detection to treatment testing, psychological support and reintegration of oncological patients we have opened a series of topics that are very important from the palitative care itself, but here is also from the involvement of the European Social Fund but also, in general, European funds that will help us very much with this first segment, which is the primary prevention. Because I think all the money we spend on the prevention and awareness of our citizens, everything's going to pay off very well tomorrow and we know what a tumor is, we know what cancer is, we know how much it costs. We see statistics on how much one country costs, one economy just treats such a severe disease. So all the money we spend on these documents, I think it's going to pay off in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24606	Thank you. We have a few replicas. She is the first respected representative of Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative, you also spoke of financial resources that are often and a stumbling block if they are missing to provide adequate and quality diagnostics and care for those who have suffered from cancer, and this certainly added value will give these European funds. I would say that sometimes some other measures, by introducing a little more order into the system or preventive campaigns or education that doesn't have to cost much, can make citizens aware of how to improve their own quality of life, stay more in nature, feed more quality, choose domestic Croatian quality healthy food. So also these announcements that come through the national programme, but also announced by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding tax discharge, when it comes to food. I think there will be additional incentive and motivation to buy Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24608	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24609	Thank you. Thank you, fellow Petyr, for this replica. I agree with you and I first advocate that we should not always normally rely solely on EU funds, especially national funds and activities that we are now carrying out and which we have spent especially on the early detection of certain cancers that have been highly curable and that have been leading the Ministry of Health for many years. I think they've brought excellent results. This is definitely where we must, if we mention the EU, also commend the initiative of our former representative of your colleague in the European Parliament, Dubravka Shuice, on the "Cranks Against Cancer" initiative. But I deliberately mentioned this letter that we got, because I think exactly what you're saying about prevention and healthy food and movement and physical activity here, we must very much include associations that I think know best what we need in this segment when we talk about preventing these serious diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24610	The next replica of the respected MP Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24611	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The proposal for a national strategic framework against cancer has not left out the problem of psychological support for rehabilitation and reintegration of cancer patients. So, according to the study, about 60% of patients need at least initial psychological support, and about 30% need continued support and monitoring of more pronounced psychological difficulties. Psychological assistance is also needed for family members especially care professionals during the treatment of the sick but also immediately after death in mourning. It is necessary to establish ways to identify psychologically the most vulnerable patients. And you have also pointed out by your colleague Bačić in your presentation that there is a need to ensure equal availability, high quality palitative care in order to make the suffering of any oncological patient and his family to the greatest extent possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24612	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24613	Thank you, Vice President, thank you, colleague Baricevic. It is good that among our ranks, what I mentioned at the outset there are several doctors, and in this case a psychiatrist. Here's to Dr. O'Donnell. With the cell, we've just opened up some topics, and I think we can help out the most. I didn't go into treatment diagnostics on purpose, and I think that the minister and his team know best, but it's our segment where we can help most, and that's exactly the psychological need, more precisely where we can get involved, and that's the reintegration of the sick and those who have recovered on their way back to society, the return to the workplace and the self-rehabilitation that can last. And where the same for psychological and spiritual help can happen is a lot of problems especially in their families. So here we are, as laymen, I think we can do a lot of good through the associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24614	The next replica is the respected representative of Hajdukovic, please. Do I hear from you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24615	Thank you very much. I'll talk to you later, I'll talk to you later. Comrade Bačić, you spoke about the economic costs, that is, the consequences of cancer on Croatian society. I always said not only here but also wider. So one kuna invested in prevention is five kuna saved in recovery. In this case prevention is, of course, part of this strategy. It's an early discovery, it's an increase in awareness of the early existence of cancer, its early detection, the benefits of early detection, some of the programs that we've already had as mandatory mammography for women of a certain age, etc. But also the second part of which was spoken by her colleague Petyr, who is much wider than this Strategy, which is also the promotion of healthy life, lifestyle, choice of foods, etc. I mean, I'm glad we're thinking strategically about this segment, but we need to think a lot more broadly beyond the cancer framework itself, that is, cancer. We need a broader strategy not only health care but generally, I would dare say economic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24616	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24617	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic, for your comment. I agree with you, it is good that we have opened an economic aspect here, because this particular National Strategic Framework would not be as serious a document if we did not see which direction it is going and how far the Ministry of Health has allocated the funds and how much it has planned to implement all these measures. These are documents and these are activities we definitely don't need to save on. We have also seen devastating statistics related to the cost of treatment itself as much as it affects society as a whole, and to the economy, and to employers, but also to the state as such. I agree with you, every kuna invested in prevention will return in a few years, not only to help save people's lives, but also to help the state and the health system not to be burdened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24618	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24619	Thank you very much. My people, the minister has come up with a proposal for a National Strategic Framework against Cancer by 2030, and it's probably what the profession has done, it's worked hard. However, I will say what I think, what I bring from the field, what I suggested in the Parliament. We're talking about prevention as the most important fight against cancer, which I think is very important. I'm talking about smoking, and, of course, that's a warning. However, very little talk about food, which in the Republic of Croatia is very bad and imported. We import 3 billion euros of food products, mainly treated with glyphosate and GMO products that are much more expensive here and much more unquality so that food affects. I also gave the Law banning GMOs of production and transport, trade and planting in the Republic of Croatia, of course and banning glyphosate because we know that this has already been launched in Austria in the European Union, etc., that it is poison that large corporations that control, full of large systems, political parties, fighting and conflict within the European Parliament, the United States of America that want control of the seed and control of what is being treated and it affects the health of our people, but we do not mention it. And the second thing, since we forgave the teleoperators in the fifth month your government half the frequency of frequency compensation is hundreds of millions of kunas, we have to say that the radiation from the base stations has not been proven to be no harm, and they're being placed wherever they think of the base stations. So in my town of Sinj, on the chimney of an old bakery. Lots of kids, kindergartens, schools. The churches are placed in bell towers, homes of health, hospitals, institutions and base stations, and the health risks of electromagnetic radiation are of no concern because they are multinational companies that are of course powerful. And in the media are big advertisers so it's very difficult for the minister to stand up to it, but we have to. I have given this law on many occasions to base stations, to teleopers behave in the Republic of Croatia as in countries where they come from. If they have the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia, which means the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia electromagnetic radiation means tumor to us, diseases to us, and huge profits to them. And, of course, that law is now the same in the procedure I gave about those base stations. Of course, multinational companies and world interests are pushing their story regarding seeds as very important. We're not promoting domestic production of 800 thousand hectares is currently unprocessed agricultural land. Half of it's state-owned. We didn't direct our agricultural land. Only mine and yours, your Dalmatia ministers can feed 11 million people and 200 thousand acres is unprocessed. So the whole strategy isn't just a letter on paper. We have problems, for example. The government praised 2016 and 2019 21 million kuna for preventing Croatian defenders who have more than a thousand 800 days and those who have 300 days on a schedule, and here is recently a well-known Croatian defender and humanist and who led a number of fundraising actions by the Christian Petrc man who was in the Special Police the entire war said that he had suffered in 2014 from a serious illness no one from the ministry called him and numerous other defenders for review. Many have died and no one has ever called them so that there is not enough “dead letter on paper. ” Another very important thing. The pharmaceutical industry of the Minister. I'm curious. We know the drugs are on the market and it's a fight on the market. However, why is it not legal in Croatia, and we know that it is bought on black and used on black marijuana oil? Why do black people buy it, and needs are significant? And we know that marijuana is for medical purposes that it's natural. I know it's done, so you know it, everybody knows it's done. However, the pharmaceutical industry is pushing its products. So as far as this side is concerned, I'd like to ask you to consider this a very important aspect in the strategy, rather than just guessing the pharmaceutical industries. I'd have a lot more to say, dissatisfaction mainly about the organisation of health homes that serve only the mayors to imprison their officials, and you know it. But that's what I'm going to end up hearing on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24620	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Honorable Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj, the law you mentioned so in the last session, went if I wasn't wrong about GMOs, and I supported it. But I'd like to draw attention to something else. That's what my colleague Petyr was talking about. She said that part of prevention is not self-respecting, reviewing, early cancer detection, etc., but a choice of healthy foods, healthy life, etc. I would say that this is an economic issue because many of our citizens cannot afford to choose healthy organic foods, very high-quality foods, but because of their lack of property, they must choose what is bad and not so healthy. So this isn't just a health issue. It's not just about the cancer strategy. This is an economic issue, first of all, and in fact, by developing the economy, I believe that our citizens will too... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24622	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24623	Thank you very much. My colleague, I listed a few facts that the strategy should contain. I think she's broad. She can't just be prescribed in this health sense. We have a number of other laws, ministry factors from the Ministry of Agriculture that should finally divide agricultural land, encourage organic farming and feed on healthy food. Of course, this is important for our tourism, because we have never again imported food mainly harmful products that certainly stimulate tumors and increase the number of tumours if this food is treated or treated with glyphosate, which is very dangerous and all countries are mostly fighting it, and we are importing from pork and I don't know what. I also mentioned base stations, antenna pillars set up in the Republic of Croatia wherever they think of it without any control, and they don't see the risks, no one wonders about electromagnetic radiation. So we have numerous examples where the Croatian people are just milking money out of their pockets and leaving disease and profit to foreign corporations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24624	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24625	Thank you very much. At first, I would like to welcome the adoption of the Strategy. We're only bringing it now. We should have brought it yesterday, the day before yesterday, maybe a few years ago. But it's better now than never. We bring it into the midst of a great pandemic, which we are all very aware of, and I may be the most. But what I want to say may not be a pandemic not in that sense, but the pandemic of cancer exists longer, and it is permanent, and it will last after the end of this pandemic and it has existed before and because of this it is very important that we prepare ourselves for it, to think strategically, to allow our fellow citizens who have this accident to suffer from cancer as much as possible recovery, or as much chance of recovery, effective and effective treatment as possible. We're bringing her in just now. I wish we had brought it sooner, but of course I would welcome and support the adoption of this strategy. I would also once again thank everyone who participated in its adoption, separate their part of the time, and I am pleased to finally consider some problems, so here are those related to this particular case of health care we are considering strategically. Because the lack of strategic thinking is what costs us. It costs us money, costs us time, costs us, unfortunately, in this case, human lives and fate. And for this reason, I think that this should be just one of the first actually in a series of strategies that we will bring to Croatia by 2030, which will apply not only to the segment of the health fight against cancer, but also to the development of the health system, its preservation and improvement, but also to the economic aspects, the social and all other aspects of our society that we need to think strategically about. From the debates that have been in this home so far, we could hear that this is actually, even though it's a relatively narrowed strategy, a narrowed field of thinking and thinking, let's say, it's actually a much more complex area that includes a lot more than a man would say at first glance. So, not only the health system, not just the organisation of processing and access to patients who are oncological patients, but also wider, which is the way of life, it's education on prevention, it's raising awareness of the benefits of early cancer detection, lifestyle, food selection, exercise of physical activity, etc. So it goes into the education system, both the economy and almost all segments of society. Therefore, apart from being glad that we are strategically considering this area, I would like to see the strategies that we will bring to others who also refer to this topic as such, or indirectly, will touch it inescapably, but not all others. And let me, in conclusion, relate once again to what my colleague Petyr said. So if we encourage our fellow citizens to choose healthy foods of organically produced foods, we must keep in mind that these are generally more expensive foods. So this is also an economic issue. And the development of the economy is certainly something that will improve our more successful dealing with cancer. In any case, I support the adoption of this Strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24626	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Honored Representative Sablar Dračevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24627	Thank you, Vice President. Well, dear fellow, we understand your problem with COVID, given that you now have this experience of the sick and I hope that your symptoms will be less pronounced or you won't have them at all. I could agree with you that we need these strategies so much, but we also need them to improve our economic situation. Because if we have not only health strategies with these strategies we will be able to apply to the funds offered from European funds. So as soon as you can strategy. I'm still interested in what you think is the most important strategy that should be put in place right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24628	Dear Representative Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24629	Thank you very much, Comrade Sablar Dračevac. Well, I feel so much better than I did the last few days. Thank you for your concern, and I believe that I will successfully get over and beat this virus. As far as your question is concerned, so definitely the most important strategy we need to adopt right now is the National Development Strategy that will allow us to withdraw money from the multiannual financial framework. So that's what's important. But it really just needs to be intertwined, that is, to round up our national strategies. And I agree with you that the issue of health is also an economic issue because you can see that, let's say, a COVID testing system is more effective than a lot of people would know whether COVID is positive or not, and therefore we could continue to work or not. So we wouldn't all have to go into isolation for 10 days, etc. It is similar with cancer, of course, even though it is a much more severe and dangerous disease and I believe that if we set up a system to make it more efficient that the economic results of course will be much more human, but economically.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24630	Thank you. Thank you very much. The Republic has a respected representative, Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24631	Thank you very much. As far as prevention is concerned, I would agree with you that food, nutrition is very important and encouraging domestic organic production, which is not an example in Croatia of those who are in the European Parliament and also in the Croatian Parliament, is not exactly that some advocates of domestic production in terms of the ban on GMOs, the removal of glyphosate. Because in this House, my proposal that passed the procedure in the last term is not supported. Thank you for supporting him and voting to encourage domestic organic clean production. Because we have, I repeat, 800 thousand hectares of unprocessed land, and we import harmful food that is less quality, more expensive, in the Republic of Croatia from imports uncontrollably so that we destroy our farmer, our peasant. Only the diseases, tumors, crabs, and anything left to us that burdens the Croatian people. And I believe that the only way out of prevention is to produce domestic healthy food one of the key to combat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24632	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24633	Thank you very much. When we talk about agricultural production and organic production, then, above all, Croatia is now a member of the European Union, we are part of a large common market and it is difficult to position agriculture properly or the market is quite demanding. But where we can certainly be competitive is organic production, healthy production. We have unpolluted land. We've got big springs of healthy water. So we have a good climate. We have all predispositions for large organic production. But we don't use that, unfortunately, because we don't think strategically, because we don't know what to do with agriculture. We can never compete with a Danish, say, in the production of fresh pork, but in some parts of pig meat, we certainly could. Also in this case, we cannot compete in the production of vegetables or anything like that, but we can certainly compete in organic production. We don't encourage her systematically.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24634	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24635	... finds a national strategy proposal to fight cancer by 2030. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope this is a superseded topic in which we can all make our contribution. I'm glad this long-awaited document came to debate today and I won't say why it didn't before, why it couldn't or why. Here he comes today and I'm glad that we can all discuss him today. The number of cancer patients in the world is on a steady rise. Unfortunately, cancer is also a leading public health problem in the Republic of Croatia. Leading to official data in the Republic of Croatia, around 25,000 new cases will be diagnosed this year. Of these, 13,000 499 men, 11 thousand 502 women, and 14 thousand 216 people will die of cancer. Of which 8 thousand 129 men and 6 thousand 87 women. The availability of health care wanted me to admit or not in this year is significantly difficult because of the pandemic COVID-19 everywhere, and not just with us. Part of the patient's fear of infection doesn't come for regular or preventive examinations. One part of the patients are delayed for justifiable reasons. That is why there is fear that some diseases will be late discovered and diagnosed. The most common form of cancer in Croatia in 2020 is colon cancer with about 3,000 and 800, then lung cancer with about 3,000 and 300 and breast cancer with 2,000 and 900 cases. The data on high mortality rates indicate that cancer in large numbers is unfortunately not revealed in time. There are numerous factors in the development and development of malignancies. Family anemones, genetic predisposition, lifestyle, smoking, alcohol, malnutrition, overweight, insufficient physical activity, the environment and no minor climate change. A 21 working group of 130 professionals who worked on this extremely important document was established 3 years ago, which would have led to a clear pathway through the health system. The successful implementation of all citizens would allow equal conditions for prevention, early detection, treatment, rehabilitation and palitative care throughout the country. Prevention is always the best, shortest and cheapest way to health. So I think that if we all get involved, we can certainly help. Our colleagues in the European Parliament are very involved in this problem. Recently, I organized the first conference on this topic called "Fight and win" in Slavonski Brod with my colleague Sunčana Glavak. "Fight and win." Response to the conference of all oncology patients, the medical team was more than excellent. Here's my colleague, Celic, who took part, and our minister, the video, got involved. Unfortunately, because of this pandemic, we're quite limited. In the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament with my colleague, Celić and several other colleagues, I participated in an informal group of representatives in the fight against cancer. I'm sure we'll continue to work together in this assembly. Croatia currently has some of the most advanced technologies, top experts, so we must all stress the importance of the review daily, respond to preventive checks and raise awareness of our citizens. So let us all contribute to education, promote the importance of preventive programmes to various public health actions, because if we save only one life we have done a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24636	Thank you very much. We have a series of replicas. The first is the respected MP Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24637	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Maksimchuk, here we know how important the National Programme for Early Disclosure of uterus Cancer, which is aimed at maintaining women's health, reducing the risk of early detection of uterus cancer and improving the quality of life of the target female population. So my question is, what are the objectives of this same programme in the National Strategic Framework Proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24638	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24639	Thank you. The uterus neck cancer accounts for 9% of total cancer cases in women, and the goal of the National Programme as well as most is to reduce the risk, early detection, of course, and the treatment of all patients from this malignant disease and of course the continuation of quality life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24640	The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs Maximchuk comes from Brod-Posavina County which has a problem with polluted air, which contains certain carcinogenic substances, and then sets your location in a particular risk area in some way. Since you've been a socially engaged person for a long time, I'm curious about how you see the involvement of civil society organizations that have been suffering from various criminal diseases and your hospital as a regional anti-cancer centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24642	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24643	Thank you very much. Yes, an esteemed colleague of the Brod Hospital is a regional center and successfully copes and fights with all these sinister diseases. Of course civil society is very important in all of this, and here I must admit that for many years I have been working actively as president of the Community of Women in my county. There's hardly even one of these national actions or those of our locals that I'm not involved in, and I've done almost a lot of these actions alone with the Women's Community myself. And here I said, and in my debate, we can all do a lot to help and reduce the number of patients means prevention, education of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24644	The next replica is respected MP Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24645	Thank you. Dear Ljubice document analyzes the problem of late diagnosis and the resulting delay in starting treatment as a significant reason for high mortality in relation to the incidence of cancer in the Republic of Croatia. The reasons are found in the insufficient availability of optimal diagnostic procedures, non-compliance with standardised protocols for the diagnosis and monitoring of treatment outcome effects, as well as the irrational use of existing limited resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24646	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24647	Thank you very much. My colleague Baričević The strategy would lead to a clear path through the development system for all patients. Of course, the objectives of the strategy show how capacity should be improved for diagnostic procedures to monitor treatment, monitor patients and post-healing. So the long-awaited strategy is now under discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24648	The Republic also has a respected representative, Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24649	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues, Maksimchuk, you spoke of the devastating numbers of the newly ill citizens of our country, you spoke of the importance of prevention. We know what the state is doing, the government, the Ministry. We have different national programs. We even have the possibility of vaccination against Hepatitis C, vaccination against HPV, etc. But it's obviously not enough when we have so many new people. Given, we see, we know all of you who know you very well that you are making a great contribution to the fight against this severe disease, so here is your advice for all of us to help us all fight together to have better numbers each year or less of the new ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24650	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24651	Thank you. Dear colleagues that I have said that according to some data in Croatia this year, these are official estimates of about 35,000 new cases. Of which 13,000 499 men and 11,000 502 women. Of course it's big and huge numbers, and I said in my debate all together here we can do a lot to raise awareness of our fellow citizens, our fellow citizens how important preventive checks are. Here we have a few national actions where here's the response isn't as good and brilliant as it's supposed to be. Here's what we all do together if we save just one human life we've done a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24652	And the esteemed representative, Uncle, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24653	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues in your discussion, you pointed out that at an annual level there are about 25,000 new people and that the causes are different from lifestyles, genetic predispositions and of course stress. Since we live in such a stressful period of the coronal virus, do you think perhaps we should consider now the health of the nation after the coronary epidemic? In fact, many of our citizens are certainly afraid for their loved ones, for their health, and also for their jobs so that we can say that stress is extremely present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24654	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24655	Thank you. Well, a respected pandemic colleague has changed our way of life, and we can only imagine he's an oncological patient. Thus, they further struggle with their disease or have to be careful of pandemic or COVID-19 disease. We all need to work together, and it's very important to support the family, the psychosocial support of all the patients being treated. But it will certainly need psychological support and a good part of the nation after this pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24656	Replicu also has a respected representative, Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24657	Thank you very much. My colleague, this is absolutely an out-of-the-way topic and I'm glad the minister is with us all day while we're discussing it. But you've touched an interesting topic, in fact, a problem that we'll only have to deal with and with, which is that the pandemic of the coronary virus actually disrupted the entire system of health including oncologically, and that we can expect a lot more cases in the next period when the pandemic is going through exactly what you're talking about, so people are afraid that the checks are cancelled for justified and unwarranted reasons doesn't matter. But what matters is that many have not been treated or went on the searches they should have done during this period. So it should certainly be planned that in the next period we will certainly have an increased number of oncology cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24658	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24659	Thank you very much. So that the distinguished pandemic pandemic COVID-19, of course, that part of the patients stayed home just because they were afraid of getting infected. It is not that, some reviews are cancelled, it is not only a problem in Croatia. Here I can testify to you from the personal examples of my parents living and working in Austria, so my mom who's also an oncology patient said that several times some of her exams were canceled here precisely because of this pandemic. We just have to hope that she gets through as soon as possible. And, of course, by adopting this Strategy, that we will make it easier for a safe path to health for many cancer patients and all those who, unfortunately, will become one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24660	Thank you very much. Now, finally on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Most Independent Lists Bridge will again speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24661	The strategy against cancer for the next 10 years is very important. But mostly in us strategies remain a dead letter on paper. So all the effort that's been put in here one more time, I'm going to tell the minister that all the people who put up the effort, probably a lot of effort. However, the strategy in the fight against cancer should have been much wider. It is a complete struggle between the entire Croatian government and the economic system. We see that we have today, so I'm going to repeat another huge problem. I've listed it, so setting up base stations wherever it comes to teleopers. You are not allowed by the ministers and the Croatian government to say anything about this because of the Misetic dynasty. Base stations do nothing like mushrooms after the rain in health institutions, hospitals, kindergartens, under the windows of people where their children sleep at that health risk of electromagnetic radiation, you are not allowed to do anything and teleoperatists in Croatia behave in any way they can think of. But I repeat, our children and our children's disease and their profits because of the highest profit. In the European Union Deutsche Telecom examples or HT in Croatia has the highest profit, over 40% while in other countries 20% and thus do not behave in their countries, and you need to solve this if you have the courage and strength, as the prime minister here says when they wave their hands here, so let him say enough. Of course, food production is very important. We import harmful food of GMOs treated with glyphosate. I gave up all those laws. Unfortunately, here in the Parliament, most of me did not support me from left, right, I do not know the sovereign, no one supported except the individuals I thank who supported the ban on GMOs and the ban on glyphosate in the Republic of Croatia, a complete ban. Because we have room to produce healthy food. Of course it's prevention. However, in Croatia we do not have the same health care. It is not the same health care that we have five clinical hospitals in Zagreb, and in Split, which has half a million people... We don't have Split-Dalmatia County, we only have one hospital, where I've given amendments where parking is not solved. [[You don't understand.]] You didn't vote your colleagues and colleagues from that county for it. You didn't support it. You didn't support the diagnostics. So we also have Hercegovina's backwater system, and the coronary crisis has cleared everything, ministers, regardless of what your government and Prime Minister Plenkovic raised his hand in the 5th month and said, "The Croatian government beat the coronary virus." You've won the election. In fact, you cheated on the people. You haven't solved the coronary crisis. We are the first to die in the world, the first to increase the disease. So you haven't solved anything at all, but you've questioned the entire health system. And I'm sorry that no one came from the Ministry last night to support this proposal that Most gave you and the opposition all night until midnight to defend, to finally discuss what was going on since the Parliament gave you authority to the Civilian Command. You absolutely did not need to come here and discuss all your moves that have made chaos in the Republic of Croatia, mistrust in your work. So oncological patients today suffer because the health system is overloaded by poor measures, the measures we had to discuss here during the COVID crisis. You didn't have the courage to come yesterday and say, "We accept." Because that the government had given us the conclusion that we were discussing all the measures of ignorance was wrong, for example. Your colleague Buljevic, our parliamentary representative, claimed that we do not need masks as a member of the Civilian Staff, a national civilian headquarters, that no one needs masks. It's unnecessary to wear. There was corruption. One mask cost 50 limes during the coronary crisis at first was 20.30 kuna. It's been stolen, archile, a banishment in Yanaf so that people and this proposal of yours are on paper. However, the man who got sick means last year, in 2016, 40 million kunas were brought in to prevent Croatian defenders from being examined, mainly those who are above the thousand and 800 days of the Homeland War. I cited the example of Kristian Petrco from Split who in 2014 had a man, a humanitarian, a recognizable Croatian defender and never called him, and he had a severe cancer and a struggle with life and never... it was publicly published in the paper that it was saddened that the ministry was using i.e. [[You don't understand.]] The government is using the piranhas of Croatian defenders. As far as prevention is concerned, nothing. We have a Veteran Hospital in Knin that's forgotten except for Victory Day, also where there should be prevention, and about homes of health and other things where women can't get in line for years to check the breast ultrasound, and I won't even talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24662	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honored Minister, Willy Beros, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24663	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs and MPs, I thank you for today's constructive debate. I thank you for recognising and supporting this initiative that is very, very important for all of us, because we can all suffer from malignancies today and tomorrow. Likewise, most of you who are visible through the debate have recognized that this strategic framework, as the name tells it, gives only a framework, certain limits of action, but that what I promise from this place that we have already begun to do, to draw up further implementing acts. So an action plan that will allow for the implementation of this important document. I also believe that you have recognised that the discussion on financial documents is just one guarantee that will allow the implementation of this full strategic plan. Of course, when a document like this was brought in that it worked like we said over 130 people that further promotion is always possible. So it is not to expect that in the coming years we will remain on this one alone, we should think about the constant improvement of our thinking. And new methods are developing, and new ways of treatment are developing, so we need to follow both professional and scientific trends. And what I still feel is that it is necessary to say, given that most of you have also looked back at the state of mental health. So we cleaned out all the drawers at the Ministry of Health and the strategic framework for mental health development is in the final stage of production and will soon be referred to the stage of its adoption. Here, thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24664	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, this strategy has been long awaited, it is important and necessary. However, without clear clearly defined deadlines and specific tasks assigned to specific bodies, this strategy will remain only a list of good wishes despite the great effort given by the medical profession as it was completely, almost needlessly written 150 similar strategies prior to this. I invite you to be the first to finally create a document that will be implemented, which we will be able to control for which we will be able to know what is expected of the individual body participating in the health system and how we will be able to monitor whether this strategy is realising what is actually with it and wants to achieve it. Please complete with specific deadlines and tasks of this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24665	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24666	Thank you, Madam Parliamentarian. I will be happy to accept that challenge. What should be said, however, is that this plan contains generally certain implementation deadlines, but also that action plans need to define detailed implementation deadlines which will certainly be done because without the same ones, it really doesn't make much sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24667	The next is the replica of the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24668	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, here we are not here, i.e. You haven't been able to answer the question from last set of accreditation, about the accreditation of hospitals. So it's mentioned here in a vision document in 2030, so here's a clear explanation of how long you'll get in one minute, how you'll spend it, what hospitals will be affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24669	Well, it's not very strict on the subject, but I'm sure the minister will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24670	Madam Assembly MPs, so the profession has been doubled here for a certain period of time between the possibility of smaller hospitals to provide an optimum of health care to complex patients. But all together we agreed to transport patients especially if he was over 80 km is absolutely counterproductive. So today’s goal is to enable patients to be treated at their place of residence, and we will do everything we can to adapt to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24671	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions, and now we'll take a break to see you again in 15 and 20 minutes. It's 3:07 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24673	Here we are, dear colleagues and colleagues, moving on with our work. - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Forests, second reading, P.Z. No. 8 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Minister Marija Vukkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24674	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The forest law regulates the system and way of management, management, use and availability of forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia. Funds for the financing of sustainable forest management and forest land in the Republic of Croatia shall be provided between other sources and from compensation for the general services of forests. The fee is exclusively a dedicated source of funds used to improve and preserve the ecological, social and economic role of the forest ecosystems in Croatia, primarily in the area of the most sensitive and most threatened forests, the karst of the Republic of Croatia. Legal and natural persons who are taxpayers of income tax or income cuts and who carry out their registered activity in the Republic of Croatia and who earn an annual income or receive more than 3 million kunas shall pay compensation for the use of common forest functions. According to the total number of registered business entities in the Republic of Croatia, some 350,000 kunas, slightly more than 350,000 of them, and 5.5% today, respectively, are paying compensation for the general services of the forest. The fee shall be paid at a rate of 0,0265 % of the total income or total receipts and shall be recorded as the intended revenue of the State budget, or revenue for special purposes, whose use is determined by the Forest Act, as follows. For demining 30%, for fire work 20%, for public forest management 37%, for private forest management 12% and scientific research in forestry 1%. The virus's coronary epidemic is a powerful blow to the Croatian economy. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has already adopted or has taken a number of different aid measures to assist sectors and citizens who have been particularly affected, in advance of all measures relating to the preservation of the liquidity of entrepreneurship and to the preservation of jobs. In order to mitigate the negative effects on the economy as a result of an epidemic of the coronal virus in the framework of an action plan to reduce non-taxable and para-fiscal burdens as a new aid measure, it is proposed to make use of the common forest functions through two sub-measures directly focused on this tax, non-taxation which employers recognise as a burden on their business. A reduction in the rate of charge and an increase in the limit for the determination of the obligation to pay this fee. The first sub-measure relates to a reduction in the rate at which the compensation in question is calculated in such a way that it is reduced by approximately 10% and that instead of 0.0265% compared to the income obtained. The receipt is 0.024% of the total income or receipt in the future. The measure directly intends to act positively on the business of those economic operators which are bonds of payments and the expected discharge is 19 million kuna. The second measure relates to the exemption from the payment of compensation to legal and natural persons who are taxpayers of income tax or income tax, who have income of less than 7.5 million kuna. By increasing the limit instead of the current 20,000 taxpayers paying this fee, there would be slightly more than 10,000 of them. That amendment would result in an economic recovery of 14 million kuna and then a total planned economic recovery of 33 million kuna using and respecting these two proposed sub-measures. In the area of demining activities, negative effects are not expected from the reduction of available resources under measures, given that demining sources are collected from different sides, the state budget, EU structural funds, donations, etc., and that certain proposals are already submitted for the next three-year period under the National Resistance and Recovery Plan. In the section relating to the fire operation, the Ministry of Agriculture has been involved in the financing of the MUP projects for the purpose of the purchase of new fire trucks. It should also be pointed out that in terms of demining activities and the restoration and protection of forest resources from the operational programme Competitiveness and cohesion, the implementation of the Naturavita project related to demining and refurbishment of forest land is recently approved at over 2,500 hectares in the Park of Nature Kopački rit 597 hectares and in the Mura-Drava Regional Park 1,937 hectares. The project is worth 370 million kuna. Following the debate on the draft law on the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament as well as the debate on 16 September 2020 in the framework of the meeting of the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament and in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 25 September 2020 following the proposed proposals, the applicant noted the need for an additional regulatory clarification of certain provisions, in particular Article 1 of the final proposal of the law amending Article 65 in the section relating to the establishment of the basis for the calculation of the fee in particular for taxpayers who pay so-called ‘tax’. tax per tonne of the ship. Indeed, the tax per tonne of the ship as defined by the Maritime Code has the character of State support which is expressed as the difference in the amount of the profit tax that would have been paid that this tax does not exist from the actual tax paid per tonage. The existence of an obligation to pay compensation for the general services of the forest, for the activities of shipowners participating in international navigation and paying taxes per tonne of the ship would do the following. The effects of State aid would simply be neutralised which has not been observed so far, therefore, in these amendments to the law in the final proposal, the same case has been observed and this is the reason for the amendment of Article 65, where international shipowners paying taxes per tonne of the ship cease to be bonds of payment of compensation for the generalised functions of the forest. In the course of the debate and the interest of Parliamentarians in considering the draft draft of this law on certain parts of the rules that are not at all the subject of these amendments at this time, we want to share further information on the topics which caused interest during the first reading in order to remove the doubts and open issues that we had the opportunity to hear 3 months ago in this place. The call for a full suspension of the compensation for the general services of forests at this time does not have sufficient professional, economic or any third basis, mainly leading to the fact that we must be responsible for all activities and branches of the economy and at the same time ensure an adequate level of management and management of natural resources, which is defined as a resource of particular interest by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This is what we are bound by international obligations which we have freely joined. At a time when we have freed more than 97 economic operators.../incomprehensible/... the payments of the fee in question and when other measures at the same time supported their business we do not see a valid reason to talk about the full elimination of this fee. Let us remember the damage caused by the icy and windfall in the Gorski Kotar, the windfall in eastern Slavonia, the oak netting bedbugs all over the most valuable continental oak forests, the smell of the underpasses in Lika and Gorski kotar, the Mediterranean sub-trailer and forest fires in Dalmatia, and the latest monster that destroys the clear ingredients. All these are situations whose recovery and recovery is financed precisely to the greatest extent of the compensation for the general services of the forest. Furthermore, as there have been talks on the non-transparentity of spending on the use of general forest functions during the last debate, we would like to point out that over 224 million and 700 thousand kunas have been spent on demining works in the last 4 years, demining over 20,000 million m2 of forest and forest land. 69.4 million kunas were spent on fire operations, of which 20.4 million kunas were paid directly at the expense of fire-fighting communities in the area of debris while 207 vans and pick-up vehicles were purchased from the remaining funds. For the management of state forests, 320 million kunas for fire protection including fire roads and averages, recovery and restoration of forests, care and cleaning works, natural and artificial forest restoration, construction and maintenance of forest infrastructure were spent. In addition, 115 million kunas for the construction of forest roads were spent on the management of private forests for the first time in the production of forest-economic plans and works on forest management and fruit material. For scientific and research work in forestry, 8.5 million kunas have been spent in processing competitions currently worth 6 million kunas for scientific and research projects in forestry. No cost-hide, no intransparentity, but rational use every year, here are some smaller funds for the general services of the forest. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24675	Thank you, Minister. We have several replicas, the first distinguished representative, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24676	Good afternoon. So, you're saying that there is no negative impact on this reduction in the parafiscal burden, but in the amendments and additions to the law, it says that there will be a reduction in demining activity, in fire and forest management, and at the moment that 70 pyrotechnics have already been fired, and 100 cancellations are being prepared because of an illogical demining plan where we now have a situation to determine less demining area than necessary, although you state the meaning of these new sources, the budget, the EU funds. The amendments and additions to the law say there will be a reduction in activity. So I'm wondering why it went to such a reduction, if there's no analysis of what effect it's going to produce in the first place?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24677	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24678	As explained in the law, savings are expected and on the basis of the savings spent over the previous years of kuna 33 million along with these sub-measures. It is certain that there will be a reduction in demining activities in the future because all happiness is the surface area of demining areas in recent years and I believe that this activity will be completely shut down once the entire territory of Croatia is demining. The demining of forests and forest land also takes place from a number of sources of generalised forest functions to finance it with, in a large percentage, growth, expected growth in economic activity, this effect projected on the basis of past times and does not have to be so much. I mentioned a project that was approved, among other things in the largest demining area worth 370 million kuna, and here I did not mention one other recent Swiss gift note worth just over 3 million Swiss francs to me. The hard work will solve it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24679	Second replica, distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24680	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ms. Minister Government of the Republic of Croatia has so far provided for the Croatian economy through various forms of assistance and redundancies and for the salaries of workers of around 10 billion kuna, which is extremely significant and this amendment of the law aims to contribute to an additional disbursement of the economy of 33 million kuna, which is commendable and I welcome it. But you also know my commitment to the forest, and it is very important for me that the forests really stay in good condition, because we are proud of them not only in Europe, but everywhere in the world and they are important for our good and healthy lives. We know that from the general services of the forest, fire and maintenance of forest roads and many other activities are also being financed, so I wonder if this money may then be compensated from some European funds from the multiannual financial framework of rural development measures, the recovery mechanism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24681	The Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24682	I thank the question, it will certainly be able to make up for it will be bigger. The conversion of forests, demining and some other activities can be financed from the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia, financed by forest, etc. the forest measures relate to the use of the operation under the measure.../incomprehensible/... investment in physical assets where operation 431 is intended exclusively for forest infrastructure and submeasures 85 and 86 where 85 is more intended for forest infrastructure and 86 is intended for the two-processing industry and the furniture industry. I am taking this opportunity to mention that recently in a special tender for the use of sub-measure 85 for the purpose of financing forest infrastructure we have increased funds from originally planned 30 million kuna to 100 million kuna. This discharge won't have a negative effect at all, we can make up for it in a number of ways, and why it's just this much, because we're in consensus and with a community that represents the foresters and with the owners, we've come to this amount that doesn't burden us and that won't cause a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24683	Next replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24684	Thank you very much. You take off the parafiscal intrusions, and we have 500-thins of them, so you throw it in the eyes with these little things, but we have a much bigger problem. We have 54 units of local self-government in 8 counties, so we have a demining area that is equal to 341 km2 in the Republic of Croatia since '91. By 2018 523 people were killed by mines, you must lift parafiscal charges whenever you want to burden the economy, but you did not demine the forest our resource and people still die. So don't do something that's normal, demining the Croatian area, but those workers who demining you, throw them all the way out of the system, they're numerous and died, no one is doing anything, and as you're supposed to end the parafiscal imposition on the damage of Croatian citizens and threaten them in these areas for life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24685	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24686	So I'll just remind you that a few years ago there was a higher rate of compensation for the general services of the forest, but the total revenue achieved was 160 million kuna. We've cut down, we've cut the fee already once in these last four years, and we've achieved an income of 200 million kuna. The insistent work of the administration, the failure to raise debts and the smart fiscal and macroeconomic policy that allows growth will not be compensated but significantly exceeded.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24687	Next replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24688	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, it is against the first reading of the amendments which exempt the payment of fees for the generally useful function of the shipowners who are based in Croatia, and who are in international navigation and who are taxpayers of the tonnage tax or.../incomprehensible/tax, because other than the fact that this would be considered state support should be said to be.../incomprehensible/... the tax is paid both in good and bad years, regardless of the company's business outcome. So this is how I believe it is, that the government and you as ministers have rightly assessed that such a measure is good and that it helps Croatian shipmen especially in these difficult times when on the world market there is a fall in total sea traffic. So here I am commending that measure, and I think the boaters will certainly welcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24689	Answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24690	Here's just to thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24691	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24692	Dear Vice President, Madam Minister, you say yourself in the explanation, and so did colleague Peovic, who said something about it, the possibility of partial mitigation of the dynamics of the implementation of certain activities, and I am particularly interested in so-called. protection of nature and the environment, i.e. the environment, the environment, the surrounding role of the forest, and somehow you say, regardless of the European green trade, that by increasing investments in generalised functions, this is the opposite of what will follow as a consequence of the amendments to this law. What I'm curious about is why the means provided from their own sources are not used for the work of biological forest restoration, so why these strictly dedicated means that have been separated, for example. Of 440 thousand 375 eight hundred etc., from own resources per, in regular activity only 228 million were spent which 65% of total planned. How can I, how do you expect to support it on one side because the situation is what it is? But I have in my hand decisions, and these two decisions of the Croatian Forests, which, in front of your decision, 30.11. And five hundred new people hired... [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24693	Time. The Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24694	Croatian forests did not employ 500 new people in January. Croatian forests have a number of employees for a certain period of time which would therefore highlight the contract, so a new contract would be signed. The same thing was done 5, 6 or 7 years ago, only you wouldn't break a contract that we came across at 12. For a month, those same workers on a certain level wouldn't pay for Christmas Day. So it wasn't safe to increase the number of people by 500 in January this year. As for the reduction you speak of in the Croatian forests, therefore, the works of the biological conversion of forests tend to take place in public procurement and sometimes takes a long time to create such a process. The funds shall be used for the purpose of spending, in particular according to the structure laid down by law and regulation, where the accidental spending of funds is permitted to amend the Forest Act which was as one measure due to the COVID disease epidemic but exclusively for the support of the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24695	Time. Replica's next distinguished representative, Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24696	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Of course, when the theme of the Law on Forests is that it causes both debate and different dilemmas, especially looking at forests in the context of the European Union's definition of climate change. But my question won't go that way. My question goes in another direction. With this amendment of the law, you reiterated the need to establish a register of debtors, so I would like to know what has been done on that road. Is it necessary to bring in another special rule that will regulate it, the way you do it because we are living in a new time and in a new world? It would be a good idea if that register were open, public, all available, that it should be tied to the bounds, and also to those obligations they have. So I'm curious about what was done in that field and what you're planning to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24697	The reply to the reply of the distinguished minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24698	I support the proposal to open all information unless, of course, it is contrary to the law governing the confidentiality of personal data. We'll publish anything we can. Registrar of generalised forest functions.../not understood. It will be easier to establish it since the number of taxpayers is getting smaller and smaller. And mostly we don't have any more problems that we've had, which have been related to a law that regulates the confidentiality of data, and that part of the problem was not about current payments, current obligations, but about determining debts from previous periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24699	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected distinguished ministers with co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. As a club of HSLS and Reformers, we will support these amendments to the law. We look at it from the angle of our liberal angle because our club and we, as representatives, support all those measures that lead to the disbursement of the economy that encourage the work of entrepreneurship. I think that at this point it is our priority and that it is good at these times of crisis, and the implementation of these precisely proposed measures is expected to have a positive impact on the business of economic operators and on the preservation of the activities of course of the jobs that we are all looking at at right now. Through the implementation of these measures, we only heard the Minister. I think it's a good 19 million kuna will be unloaded just by business entities. Here's a fellow Bull said it was a little 19 million kuna. From a rational perspective, it doesn't seem quite 19 million kuna to me that it's small. Maybe that's not enough? But anyway, one good step forward. Nineteen million kunas have a lot of certainty on all these charges, and we as a state will have to deal with these intrusions. I support all those who advocate that the number of all charges be reduced. However, in any event, the compensation for the general services of forests for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs up to 7.5 million kunas of revenue is still lifted, while the large burden is reduced quite moderately. So, and this is something that should be highlighted precisely because I said at the very beginning of this exhibition, because this is the purpose of encouraging entrepreneurship and maintaining economic activity in these very difficult times for Croatia. What, now let's go with the praises a little bit of criticism, what I certainly think from saying to my liberal corner that we should include regulating exactly the distribution of compensation for the generalized function of the forest is not sure how good it is to supplement the provisions of the law and that the funds collected in the name of the compensation can be used in the event of certain special circumstances for some other functions. Okay. I understand and understand that this can, for example, be used to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 disease on economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, but I am not sure how much this should be used if this is the case if there is a need for other things. Refunds for the general service of the forest are provided exclusively for the purpose of helping forest management which are not profitable. For example, in a coastal belt for making forest roads, for cleaning forests or for other things. This protects our natural wealth and basically what we think is the goal that needs to be achieved by the existence of this fee is precisely to focus on the general useful function of the forests themselves. It is also commendable to the great potential that Croatia has to find under the forest 49.3% of the land area or 2.7 million hectares of forest and where forests themselves with normal management achieve 2% of the natural growth of quality wooden buildings, i.e. translated forests in their own right, along with a rationally controlled cutting can and must generate an income of 2% per year. However, our forestry and the wood industry, with all the support of the state, are achieving only 1.37% of GDP. It's the minister, I'm not criticizing you specifically, but everything that's happened in the last 30 years where we can use that additional potential further. Let's say Finnish forestry is incomeing 400% of GDP, national revenues even though their woodwork is far more unquality than ours. So it's about Montenegro and running. We've been witnessing the last few years of a big cut-off forest from like to Slavonia. As can be seen from the annual reports of the Croatian Forests where the memory is increased, i.e. The use of wood supplies in 10 years has increased by almost 50%. The large furniture industry is mostly on low branches. In the last two decades and furniture production today in Croatia has been reduced to very low levels, mainly small or medium-sized enterprises. The management of our visited wood mass so far has been unfortunately known during one of the ministers from another government based on the sale and export of basic wood raw materials such as the African countries that sell their natural resources in invaluable, imports of finished products. Croatian forests as a public enterprise for the management of forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia have been given the trust of all of us citizens to manage our natural economy in the best interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we need to allow them precisely better quality and regulation laws. Anyway, we think we're going a good path in this discharge. We're going to support this very law because of all these discharges I've been talking about. But you should think about maybe a new strategy for the development of forestry and wood industry as a whole, and it's in everyone's best interest. Croatia has huge forest potential. This is something we can be proud of and boast about, but we may also need to think about how to use all that potential in an additional way and enable even better management of Croatian forests. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24700	Thank you. The next one is an honorary representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash on behalf of the Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24701	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It is before us in the second reading and amendment of the Law on the Forests. When it comes to such a law, the debate can be held and I would like to lead on three topics. One topic is the role of the forest. The second topic is therefore in terms of nature, in terms of climate change. The second topic is the role, so the forest in terms of the economy and the third topic is what it is, which is why this amendment and the addition of the law are launched, and that is the subject of parafiscal burdens. So maybe we should start from the end, from this third. So this amendment of the law reduces the obligation from a zero point 036% to 0.24%, and that payment obligation will have as the proposer now states 10500 taxpayers who will be. As I've asked the minister, I think it's urgent that we really set up a bond register and see what it's all about. I would also like our club to see these parafiscal intrusions actually shrink more and more in the light of everything stated that one of the reasons and what the EU has been telling us all along is that we need to have an action plan to reduce parafiscal burdens, because what is a characteristic and what our economies really say and talk about these parafiscal burdens and needs and the desire to reduce them. Another topic is the topic when we talk about forests in the context of really climate change. We all know that Croatia as a member of the EU, and I hope that we all agree together, regardless of how our MPs once voted in the European Parliament, that the green plan, the plan we will insist on, that climate change is something that is a fact, and that forests are something that is Croatian good that needs to be protected. Sometimes you have some characteristics and some good in which you really need to take care and protect. One of those things is the woods. All the time, we know that there are more than 50% of the territory in Croatia or depending on 50% of the territory under the forest. Some of those woods, so they are, we have different kinds of woods. And of course as Croatia is also different from this Mediterranean part of Croatia, according to its climate characteristics. So the forests and the historical and traditionally different grew, so they grew. But I must admit, I often mention it and mention it when we speak the Law on the Forests and I will mention it this time, it is convenient to observe how the processes are some and in nature in Croatia happened over time. Something I used in my work was those maps of Croatia, so air footage on February 15th from '68. year, because it's one date that was related to the formation of construction areas so that I don't go away from the topic now rather than really go back to the theme of the forest. And then when you look especially at this continental part of Croatia not to tell Slavonia, then you see how big the area was in terms of agriculture. And over time, this agriculture, I'm going to introduce myself to agriculture and actually the forest has found its way further, and today when you compare these maps, you see a lot of agricultural surfaces have actually become a forest surface. It just happened, it's a fact, and we need to turn that fact into our own. Indeed, the fact that Croatia has forests should be our benefit, but it is our obligation as well. So the woods need to be maintained, forests to be dealt with. In particular, when it comes to the Mediterranean, you must take care of the averages, so you must not only maintain yourself but also take care of the fire roads. So regardless of what would really be much more expensive if such a parafiscal inducement were not available, it is good to use it for that purpose. To be used to maintain forests, to be used for forest averages that are extremely important and to monitor processes that are which. One of the processes is that even the burned-out surfaces are really creeping up after a certain time, that they're lurking, taking care of all the elements and all the things that that means. And I come to that third topic, the third topic is the economic value of the forest. There's this one project that somehow went under the radar, and that's the one the tree project was first. So, we have one tradition in both the wood industry and what always debilitates us when we see that the cutting of the forest is made and when the trunks are exported from Croatia, and this is not used in the development of some other industries. In fact, what I'm about to come back, I'll be back at some point on the green plan. Something in the context of this green plan is extremely important and where we could also find our niche to really take care of our forests, to use them properly in terms of economic use, to be in the sense of a green plan, not to cut down rather than to be an incentive for both retraining and for the development of some new and technology and industry and some new activities, because it really is something that can be our comparative advantage, not flaw. Of course, I have to go for here at the end of the debate, of course we'd like it much more if that parafiscal load was reduced to the least possible measure, but you always have two methods. One method is step by step, and another method is that ax cut. Sometimes ax cuts aren't the best methods and the best possible way. We read that this is still a step by step method. The situation with the Coronal Virus or the Covid-19 we have and that's one of the reasons why I appear like this, not directly from the Assembly, namely the right to reveal a number of other things. So if we see that we really have the possibility to reduce these parafiscal burdens at this point because of the crown situation and the Covid situation, obviously there is a possibility and a way and a desire to do so permanently. That we're actually not just formally saying that we're going to reduce parafiscal abuses, but that from this one abnormal situation that I'm deeply hoping we won't take too long to turn it into a normal situation. To give ourselves some deadlines, some frames, some story, and to say there are parafiscal inducements that really need to be reduced and some kind of method or some way or years we're going to do it in 5 or 10 years and we're going to turn it into something else. But what I want to say for the end, the European Green Plan is extremely important. And if we miss that opportunity to take advantage of the European Green Plan and to develop, among other things, and to maintain our forests, take care of the forests that it is and they cut down who they are or what it is to really be to know and to develop a single economic branch, then it all pays off. If we miss it, others won't miss it and that train will pass for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24702	Thank you. Next is the House Movement Representatives' Club and the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24703	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly. The esteemed ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing a discharge here if I have well understood the minister through two measures of a total of 33 million kuna. I will remind you that the Homeland Movement has put the amendment to the budget for next year, where we have proposed that the item in the Ministry of Agriculture of General Forest Functions be increased from 80 million to 100 million kuna because the item is halved from 2020. So now we see less than 33 here, and the item is half as small as 2020. We have suggested that hunters for whom 71 million kunas are scheduled to be reduced to 51 because this is more than it was in 2020, are not adopted as most of the amendments have not been adopted. In 2018 alone, 33 million kunas were collected through parafiscal donations, nearly nine billion kunas. So this is one of over 500 parafiscal charges and if you look at what the citizens pay, then the first thing is the HRT tax and the compensation for renewable sources, and what the entrepreneurs pay is the fee for using the general services of the forest is among the 10 largest non-taxable giving of parafiscal charges, giving as anyone calls them and there has this infamous first place of compensation to encourage the production of electricity from renewable energy sources. And now that you're listening to our entrepreneurs, they're really proposing and you'd even dare to say cries for reducing these parafiscal givings, but I haven't heard anyone suggest that we abolish this one. The mention of memberships is mentioned, various impositions are mentioned, but this is rarely or almost never mentioned because our entrepreneurs understand and are aware that there are parafiscal givings that are strictly intended, which are necessary. The list of strange parafiscal loads is really quite long. Here's a few. Compensation for the authorisation of legal persons to fulfil the prescribed conditions for the production of general application items. As long as you say it, you haven't come to the end of it, you don't know what it's all about anymore. The cost of printing the results by mail. At 21. For centuries in the digital age, we're talking about industry 4050, they're billing for mailing. Perhaps we should have started with these and such parafiscal givings, not those that are strictly intended. What do our entrepreneurs say? They believe that the height of these charges is inappropriate and that they do not receive any counter-service and are mainly referring to membership fees in chambers, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of crafts and also complain that they do not have any influence in the event of an increase in parafiscal burdens and, of course, when it comes to enforcement due to the non-payment of them. My colleagues have already pointed out the purpose of this particular fee and I will repeat it, so part of it is used for demining so that we doubt what will happen no matter what we welcome in the Homeland Movement, every discharge of our entrepreneurs. Everyone is truly welcome because, especially now, in these very difficult circumstances and the economic crisis caused by the coronary epidemic of the virus, we should normally make sure that our entrepreneurs are relieved and it is not disputed that a good part of the parafiscal administrations should be abolished and one part reduced. A detailed analysis should be carried out before that. This partial reduction is not good for us. 33 million kuna, and we hear and read in the media that total donations and aid to the economy so far has been at about 8.9 billion kuna. The disproportionateness between those two figures. But I'm saying, we're gonna say hello to every discharge, and we're gonna say hello to this. What we have committed not only once, but several times, as part of the activities related to the accession of the euro zone, is that our economy will be relieved in the segment of administrative requirements and parafiscal payments. But before that, we need to do a detailed analysis and it needs to be approached systematically, not as partially as this. What needs to be monitored, of course, is the detailed control and spending of such funds. In her presentation, the Minister also looked back a little, but we cannot forget the numerous affairs related to certain public enterprises, millions of severances, bonuses and Croatian forests that certain administrations received. What we can do is follow the examples of those who are the best in the European Union. To finally go into this so-called desired digitisation and through the recovery plan 20% of the funds will have to be spent in digitization and thus disbursed our entrepreneurs. And I won't be long because it's really about one symbolic discharge, so I'd say no matter what my colleague Hrebak says it is, it's a lot of money. But when you see how helpful the economy is, then we see that the problems are huge. And this 33 million is good, but it's not enough. It is necessary to systematically approach, analyse and start perhaps from these pointless parafiscal givings, and these strictly intended may still be left to end because they really have their function, and this is what our entrepreneurs tell you best, who I really haven't heard them ask for the abolition of these exact fees. We will support this in the Homeland Movement because we support it means every reduction and discharge of our entrepreneurs. But I am saying that we hope that this is the beginning of a real reform and one action plan that we have committed in a number of documents that we have signed and sent to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24704	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Vucilović, injured Article 238. It's about a slight reduction in parafiscal loads. Namely, the Law on Forests cannot be reduced, for example, by a parafiscal fee defined by the Law, for example, on maritime goods or by a third law. First of all, other measures primarily through tax reform have led to a significant discharge of Croatian entrepreneurs, so over 10 billion kunas have been disbursed both by entrepreneurs and our businessmen in these five rounds of reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24706	This was a replica. You have a warning. The next debate is on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24707	My people, we have a big, strong reform message ahead of us. It takes off a parafiscal load of a few 500, 600 as much as it does. How much did you say? 33 million kuna. 33 million kuna... in a few hours at the club in Slovensko se... [[You don't understand.]] effusion and drinking. [[You don't understand.]] I think Croatian forests as a key resource of the Republic of Croatia are the resources mainly for people to survive in this area. So any impose on the forest as a key and strategic resource of the Republic of Croatia should be to survive the people in that area. And you are, on the contrary, this parafiscal imposition which you have tribalted and at least provide people from that area, to the local community an example of Gorski Kotar, Lika, Slavonia or my Zagora, to make this resource a driver of the forest, to be a driver for the development of that area. We'll take an example of Gorski Kotar, we can take my Zagor, but here we go, the Mountain Wheel, so it won't be me just talking about my constituency. We have a sawmill tradition, a forest near the repromatter. The only thing we do is export the balvanes, with them our labour force to Italy and other countries to create additional value and sell it to us. So we've moved the Croats, I mean people now from that area and left it empty. And it's sad to come and see in the Gorko Kotar so in Slavonia these areas are beautiful full of forest that are empty, and we have such resource and such a quality tree that whoever comes to a stranger can be surprised. So this story about abolishing parafiscal intrusions with the covid crisis is nothing we protect domestically. We're not self-sufficient in anything, and we have everything. We have a tree we don't have a product. We're the only ones stopping our contractor. Our entrepreneur is the most difficult principally ministers in the areas of undeveloped areas of these two-thirds of Croatia's examples when they are running for certain means entrepreneurs dealing with wood, production and processing of wood products cannot get any point of any kind, so that they can get these people to survive in these areas. Instead of disbursing all taxes in these areas that will deal with wood production from wood. Five years moratorium. And not only the wood industry, but any industry in our areas that are demographically destroyed. And we're out of labor. Now it's no longer a problem for the investor to come, we don't have the workforce. Do you understand the ministers? We have a resource, our forest in this case, but we have nothing. It's nothing. You can laugh, but it's a fact. It's the same fact that when we talk about the forest as a resource we can talk about the same thing about agricultural land. We have never again imported food today, harmful foods, GMO foods, which are treated with glyphosate, which is resistant to glyphosate, which is banned in large ones. Austria forbids it, and that's why today I've connected this topic we can send our beautiful resources in the Republic of Croatia instead of using it, to create an additional value, to make these people stay and work essentially we send them with our resources, export them to other countries where additional value is created. And that's the key message and conclusion. But when we talk, when you say it, it'll go as far as I can't tell about demining. Well in Croatia, Croatia has not yet been demined. Another 523 people were killed by mines by 2018. We have an area of 341 km that is not demining, and people who demining so much demeaning. Even the Home Secretary gave them up. And we only have insecure areas, we're a tourist country that wants to do manufacturing, forest protection, forest protection, and you say we're demining. So that would be the whole system involved from the Croatian Army to those who demining. But unfortunately, those people who worked at the Croatian Mine Action Centre were also thrown out on the road, so they strike daily and have worked very responsible and hard work. It is not easy to demining areas mostly more difficult to pass areas. So, and security, we're a tourist state. The corona crisis will pass, the security of the Republic of Croatia if someone says that one part of the country is 54 cities, related to 54 cities, 8 counties are still demining the area. This parafiscal load of 33 million kuna is being stripped so benignly, so meaningfully of the minister. You act the same way that I think of you as farmers. We have greenhouses in the Castles. It's nice to have Castlen Ante Sanader behind me who was also mayor of Kaštela and the mayor. I'm glad there's a minister and the biggest manufacturer of greenhouses throwing it into the street. Full of homemade salads, first they destroyed that greenhouse production. Then the O.P.G. came and now you have at 14 ha, actually on 24 ha 14 plastics of huge, full salads in us produced that are even exported. But that stands to waste, the tribune to redo it, the triba to someone else's third. They're full now. Now they're full of Castellan greenhouses. And what about those 35 women who get paid, who hire them? So we don't think about the woods, and I want to tell the ministers that we just don't use our resources mainly in these areas to keep people alive. I mean, you're saying, here's a big reform of the forest law, we're taking down one part of the parafiscal intrusion that is 33 million kunas in total, you said 33 million kuna. That's what they conceived and banked for public procurement for what they were setting up in JANAF and other clubs in two hours. She'll count in two hours, she's a good counter. He says he's counting fast the money he was in Slovenia. That's what they drink and eat in a second and share. So our resource is very important, and that's in this case the forest. The woods and the safety and survival of these people. I am once again your representatives of the Government in these areas now that we are never again importing mainly and using our resources and food production and wood processing, importing finished furniture, finished products that we do not have at this time other than these two-thirds of Croatia, this ring around Zagreb, something small around other, larger cities survive simply to abolish all taxes on five years of moratorium. Entrepreneurs because simply these people will no longer come down to work, no labour, no eviction, and we have resources. Then we have to make it possible for five years, so that man who stays, one to stay, would be fine. Unfortunately, we will have little more municipalities and cities and counties than residents. And now we have more local self-government than China, the U.S. and India together, we have more numbers. I think the woods are a strategic resource with energy, along with the water that now appears even on the stock market, we've asked for the constitutional water category to be a fundamental human right, now it's going to be on the drinking water market. Drinks of water are on the oil market. There will be plenty of water on the stock exchanges, and we haven't protected it. We gave our sources to the river Cetina. The source on Cetina knows where the source is, the most beautiful source in the world. Holy Rock, Jamnica, we gave it all to the concession. For Cetina, the government of Zoran Milanovic was debated for 37 seconds and gave me a concession at 50 years is paid monthly, the concessionaire pays 5,000 kuna. That's how many two cows a little worse they're going to be drinking every month, if you have, so much paid by the farmer of the wells that mean those little cows that fed that people because there's little of us that we're right now in the city, although everyone will say yes, we're mostly from the villages, and while that village and those rural areas, we don't use that resource to keep people here, if it could have been in Yugoslavia, if it could have been in the Kingdom of Serbia, if it could have been during the Turks, the Mletaks, that people live in difficult circumstances, I don't see any reason that in free Croatia today on the anniversary of the death of the first president of the Republic that I have to discuss this way. For 20 years I wore a uniform of Croatian soldiers, I see, I think what a man leads to in his country, that it is empty Croatia. And you're wearing makeup here, and they're still missing to confirm that you're being photographed, to target the front page of what kind of brooch is, what is this, what is the mask, all right? And I really expect that it will be unique, regardless of the political option that people finally have jobs in these areas, mostly they are forests, water, where our potentials are, agricultural land that we finally start using them to get people back to live in these areas because we're going to lose Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24708	This was an exhaustive debate about the woods. Now we're going to the SDSS Attorney's Club, the esteemed representative of Anya Shimprag.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24709	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Minister with an associate, distinguished fellow MPs and fellow MPs, we are facing limited amendments to the law amending the Law on Forests. When I say limited it is clear because measures are being taken to reduce the negative impact of Covid-19 diseases on the economy. We know that the Law on Forests regulates the system and way of management, management, use and availability of forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia. The funds for the financing of sustainable forest management shall be provided from the compensation for the general services of the forest. Before the amendments to this law when we speak over the last 5 years, the average annual amount is about 190 million kuna in the name of this fee. The proposed measures therefore reduce the rate at which this fee is charged and the exemption from the payment of compensation for legal and natural persons who have a income of less than 7.5 million kuna also reduces the number of payers by 50%. By implementing such measures, we hope to preserve our economic activity, jobs and the liquidity of our business. But there is also a way to replace the resources of other activities that would not have a reduction in activity. The SDSS Club will support the amendments to this law, but for who knows which time we will warn of the anti-zaconite cutting and usurpation of the forest resulting in the devastation of the forest fund and the destruction of local and forest roads. Although Croatia has a long tradition and a stalking system of management of state forests by which we can really be a role model, a role model of many richer countries, it remembers the private forests are increasingly taking control. Private forests extend to some 660,000 hectares and make up 1/5 of our country's total forest surfaces. The illegal deforestation of forests is particularly visible in areas where they are inhabited, where members of national minorities are inhabited. There we know that no property legal relations have been resolved, no catastra and land books are resolved, owners are located in other countries, and in fact it is the most fertile ground to do such illegal activities. And when a man reports illegal cutting, most of the perpetrators of these crimes unfortunately remain undiscovered. People don't know who they're going to talk to anymore, and they're looking at the police officer's record, and they're looking at the only treasure they have in these devastationed areas. The annual Croatian forests have significant revenues from the allowable cutting, where the income goes when we see that there is no development in these areas, no shaming and no investment in these devastated roads. Also, while forest raw materials illegally disappears a number of sawmills on the basis of an annual contract with the Croatian Forests do not provide sufficient quantities of hulls and come into difficult business situations, they must reduce production and the number of employees. We are expected here to adopt concrete legal solutions and stronger management capacities so that the problems of illegal cutting in the area of the carlovakia County, Sisak-moslavina, like and Western Slavonia and other parts of the region can finally be put into an ad act. In order to protect the forest that is protected by the Constitution regardless of its property, it is necessary to establish a service that would take over the protection of the forests of small forest owners, because if it continues uncontrollably, it will come and there has already been a devastation of nature. And it is often forgotten that the woods are still the most valuable resource of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24710	The next debate on behalf of Green-Left bloc MP Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24711	Dear Vice President, Ms. Secretary with an associate. Here is to begin with the Minister who herself represents the Assembly of the Society of Croatian Forests of Employment Information. Employment of Croatian Forests d.o.o. at the time of the crown with condition 31. 03. A total of 8 thousand 164 employees on an undefined 7 thousand 11, on a certain thousand 153, agency employee 534. 31. Ten. 2020. A total of 8 grand 123. Undefined 7000 195, specified 928 and agency 306. So, from the beginning of the corona of the crisis to the 31st. On 10th in Croatian forests, 184 workers work more according to the contract indefinitely. So not this, like you said, that people's contracts are being extended. It's been reduced, for example. agency from 534 to 306. Why am I telling you this? I don't want you to justify it like that. I'm telling you because something's been wrong in the Croatian forests for a long time. Let's say these new employees are not employees of people working in the field, but let's say 3 trainees related to law may not be surprised because only the Veteran Association Green Squad has prepared over a thousand pages and some have gone to the European Parliament and you will see the results. So maybe these interns are probably putting in there so they can answer some questions? What really concerns is the adverse functioning of the society itself. There's something here and some colleagues have managed to say mildly. One of the equative examples of how the administration of society and the supervisory board and the Government of the Republic of Croatia treat the forests in Croatia is also the chronology of planning and carrying out works on the biological restoration of the forest. The Croatian Forest Management Plan for 2020 planned the overall value of forest management works of 583 million 606 thousand 573 kuna, this with a very large score. And afterwards, the Croatian Government decided to ease the crisis caused by the COVID virus from part of the funds that were strictly collected as forest management funds. But the management first reduced the initial amount of the 2020 business plan and reduced it by 42 million. The new plan thus amounted to 541 million since 7 April. But the administration has still seen what the situation might look like, which could be supported even by this small measure. So on November 30, it again made a decision, again reduced the value of the works itself and the amount of work on the biological restoration of the forest to 440 million kuna. And out of that amount, and we are already at the end of the year, and this was passed on November 30th, works worth 271 and another million kuna, so 62%. Only 62% of the planned funds, regardless of the response here, that some of the planned funds can be re-scheduled. There are other means that might have been re-designed. That something serious is wrong in the Croatian forests, it also says that of these plans for regular biological recovery only the amount of 228 million kuna is used, which is 65% of the planned. So, if, and she spoke to a colleague in front of me, we witness daily reinforced forest cuts, then we testify that there are not enough people watching. It's been said here before and at first reading after we sell this cut-off building, as we sell it. Ask who's driving from Spačva, for example. our construction in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the like. And who got rich on it. As far as the government and the minister are in error when they believe that these forest management funds will be compensated from EU funds, Mrs Petir has asked about it, the fact that the Croatian forests were unable to make use of planned EU funds. This also shows that EU funds are resolved only by 31 or 41%. So in 2020, nearly 600 million kunas originally planned to be invested in forest management were only invested 228. How is it possible, then, that only 228 million were invested? And the question is, where did we lose 355 million kuna? And why are dedicated funds provided from their own sources not used on what is important to us for the work of biological restoration of the forest? I lived for almost 17 years in Finland, and you should know that for a visited tree, three must be planted. What do our ratios look like? They actually look the other way. So out of nearly 600 million, you can worry about the management of 200 million to fix it. What's good is where, in law itself, when you look at the reasons, that's exactly what it says. In order to expect a partial mitigation of the dynamics of the implementation of certain activities that are relevant for nature and environment protection points, etc. the ecological role of the forest. For example, the rise of new forests, recovery and restoration of forests damaged by abiotic facts, preservation, biodiversity, etc. I don't know how many minutes I have left, so I'm in a bit of a hurry. And it also stands at the end of the document, as the European Green Plan for Green Deal gives rise to the need to improve the quality and quantity of existing forest surfaces, and the need for increased investment in general beneficial forest functions. This is one way of saying the opposite of what will follow as a consequence of the amendments to these laws. Look at the final explanation. As a consequence of these laws, there will be no improvement in quality, no improvement in the quantity of existing forest surfaces, nor will we make new investments needed for general useful functions. This is where other activities were talked about. And what does it say? Additional efforts will be made. In fact, finding some other sources. Unless we're able to do what we planned and the way we're going to take care of our forests, if we're able to re-route the funds, lose millions of these funds well. There will be additional efforts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24712	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the esteemed representative of Martina Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24713	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished minister with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests is before us. As in the first reading, so I will have to emphasize in the second reading some of the illogicalness that you are pushing through with this final proposal of the law. All that matters is that this is pure pulsism. Gentlemen, at the beginning of the year in the previous session of the Assembly, when we adopted the Law on Forests in the debates, we pointed to certain poor provisions of the passed law, and we are pleased that you have seen some things and suggest that the operations of the accounts and charges for general use, to use the generally useful functions of the forest are returned under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture, because this model of cooperation with the FINA has not been revived, has not been developed, is not operational and that such savings are necessary in the state budget and create a prerequisite for the adoption of a sublaw act based on which will technically standardise the way of calculating compensation and electronic communication with the bonds for administrative redundancies of the economy. You did not accept this only because it was a SDP proposal and you continued a crazy state-leading policy in which all SDP proposals were automatically refused without considering whether these proposals were good or not. In the last debate, as in the previous session of the Parliament, we tried to sensitize Parliamentarians to make decisions that are useful and particularly important for their lives, about the enormous importance of our forests and forest land, hoping that the ruling would show little common sense, and first make a quality strategy for the development of forestry, hunting and wood industry that would be voted by consensus, and then a good law that would help all of us to implement that strategy. Unfortunately, this did not happen but continued with this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Forests pushes pulsism. The use will not be. However, the funds collected for the general services of forests are strictly dedicated funds from which the last forest is financed where there has never been, the last forest after the fire, demining, forest protection, fire and the like. Based on the Ministry of Health's decision to declare a covid-19 disease epidemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus since 11 March of this year and in order to prevent the impact of covid-19 disease on the Croatian economy, certain measures were needed to minimise the negative impact of that threat on the Croatian economy. In the absence of other solutions, you have reached through the supplemental provisions of the forest law for KEFŠ funds by prescribing that these strictly dedicated funds are being spent as anyone wishes according to the established HDZ principle. This is what we warned about when adopting the Forest Law, where all users other than fire-fighting communities must make a spending programme for those funds that must be approved and the funds are paid only after it has been established that they have been spent in accordance with the programme. Fire departments don't have to. And that is why we are lagging behind in withdrawing money from EU funds, because for you, transparency is unknown and completely undesirable in your environment. And now we finally come to the height of populism. The first measure relates to a reduction in the rate at which compensation is calculated in such a way as to reduce the same by slightly less than a huge 10%. Those huge 10% are 0.0025%. If we convert this into kuna we come to the fact that a business entity with a million kuna income should pay the entire 25 kuna less. With the forest law, you have prescribed that business entities with income below three million kunas will not be bonds of payment. Now, with this final proposal to amend and supplement the Forest Act, you propose to release all payment bonds with revenue of less than 7 and a half million kuna. With this measure, a business entity with income of 7 and a half million kuna instead of current depending, 1987 kuna and 50 kuna per year will pay 1800 kuna, which is for 187 kuna and 50 limes less. So do you really think that 187 kuna and 50 limes will save someone who has income of 7 and a half million kuna? The funds collected by the OkFŠ are strictly intended and this is a purely populist measure where it tries to score a political point, instead of explaining to people what it is. I wonder where you'll get those funds from. We're lucky there weren't too many fires this year, so there's some resources left. But do we have to spend it and it's non-transparent as anyone wants it? As we have previously pointed out, the reduction from these 10% does not apply to entities up to 7.5 million kuna, but it does refer to banks, related to the INU which, thanks to HDZ, has gone into Hungarian ownership, relates to various corporations, teleopers that have huge revenues and they, they extract profits from our country, and to them, that 10% might mean something. In order to support my position, I quote the chronology of the Institute of Compensation for the general services of the forest. In 1990, it was established at a rate of 0.7%, 2010 the rate level was reduced to 0.0525% of total annual income. In 2012, the rate level was reduced to 0.0265%, 2018 set a threshold for the payment obligation of more than 3 million kuna of total annual income. All previous legal changes in the amount of compensation collected for the OCFŠ have been halved. Representatives of leading and responsible institutions in the Republic of Croatia in the area of forestry are also on the trail of our thinking, and they expressed their position in a letter addressed to the Committee on Agriculture on 7.9 this year. The signatories were academic professor dr.sc. Ivan Anić, a regular member of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, president of the Academy of Forest Sciences, Prof. dr.sc. Tibor Pentek, dean of the University of Zagreb University of Shumar, doc. dr.sc. Sanja Perić, director of the Croatian Forest Institute, Silvija Zec, dipl.ing.shumarstava, president of the Croatian Chamber of Forestry and Wood Technology Engineers, Oliver Vlaić, dipl.ing.shumarstva, president of the Croatian Forest Society. The biggest experts in this area of forestry are against your proposal. Isn't that enough for you gentlemen to wonder if your changes are correct or just cosmetic and serve nothing but mere pulsism? You state that from the European Green Trade Plan, there is a need to improve the quality and quantity of existing forest areas and the need for increased investment in the OkFŠ and that this is the opposite of what will result from changes to these laws and that you propose, among other things, through a strategic plan for agriculture within the framework of the EU common policy, to provide adequate incentives or support for forest owners in terms of preserving biodiversity and sustainable forest management, which will replace and increase the financing of the KEFŠ. As I said for the first time, you should have done it a long time ago. For business entities of 7.5 million kuna, the amount of HRK 1,987 and 50 lipa is not some large amount of money, and for those with lower annual incomes is even lower and our view is that in the spirit of the European Green Plan, the rate of 0.0265% is left or even increased. I also call on a parliamentary representative from the HDZ ranks who, in the first reading of this proposal, called for my club's amendment and supplementation that we wanted to reduce the KEFŠ by 40% through the electoral programme, to support the same statements with documents because the carrying out of untrues in this House is not appropriate as on public television. And in conclusion, right now at the time of this pandemic, the moment is for further investment in forests and the environment, and therefore yours once again please stop pleasing your policies only to banks and large capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24714	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24715	Since these are very limited legal changes, I will give a brief explanation and the reasons why this law is being passed. Based on the Minister of Health's decision to declare the Covid-19 disease epidemic caused by SARS-COV 2 since 11 March 2020, and in order to prevent the impact of Covid-19 disease on the Croatian economy, certain measures should be implemented to minimise the negative impact of the listed public health threat on the Croatian economy. One way to implement these measures is to reduce tax or non-taxable burdens on economic operators in such crisis situations in order to preserve economic activity, business liquidity and job conservation. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an action plan to reduce tax and parafiscal duties in 2020, which plans to reduce the burden on the economy of €532 million. The adoption of a new action plan is in line with the recommendations of the EU Council for the Republic of Croatia and within the framework of the European Semester and is one of the measures that the Republic of Croatia has undertaken to join the European Course Mechanism II and the Banking Union. The Law on forests, National No. 68/18, 115/18, 98/19 and 32/20 regulates the system and way of management, management, use and availability of forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia. Funds for the financing of sustainable forest management and forest land in the Republic of Croatia are also provided from the compensation for the general services of forests. Legal and natural persons who are taxpayers of income tax and natural persons who are taxpayers of income tax and in the Republic of Croatia carry out their registered activity and make total annual income and receive more than 3 million kunas pay compensation for the use of common forest functions. According to the total number of registered business entities in the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2019, the total legal persons were registered 280,017, and entities in the facility and their free interests were registered 83,811. Only slightly more than 20,000 and about 5.5% were recorded as payment bonds for this fee. The fee for the use of common forest functions shall be charged at 0,0265 per cent of total income or total receipts, and shall be recorded as the intended revenue of the state budget, i.e. the revenue for special purposes whose use and purpose is determined by the Forest Act in a way that the demining of forests goes 30%, for the fire-fighting activity 20%, the management of state forests 37%, the management of natural forests 12% and scientific research work in forestry 1%. In the last five years, an average fee for the use of the common useful functions of the forest has been collected in the name of around 191 million kuna. As a new measure to help the economy due to the covid-19 disease epidemic, a normative regulation of the provisions of the forest law is proposed through two measures. The first measure relates to a reduction in the rate at which the compensation in question is calculated in such a way as to reduce it by slightly less than 10% and from the current 0.265% to the newly proposed calculation rate of 0.024% of total income or total receipts. This measure will directly act on the business of all economic operators that are the payment bonds concerned. The second measure relates to the exemption from the payment of compensation to legal and natural persons who are taxpayers of profit tax, and natural persons of income taxpayers who have income of less than 7 and a half million kuna. By increasing the total annual income and income from the three million kuna so far to the newly proposed 7 and a half million kuna, the number of taxpayers would be reduced by around 50% compared to their current number, i.e. from the current slightly more than 20 000 taxpayers' payment obligation would have only about 10 500 according to the new proposal. This law primarily regulates the question of payment of compensation for the use of general services of forests. Payment bonds are prescribed as well as the method of calculating the compensation for the general useful functions of the forest, and the process of handing over the accounts and payment deadlines. As the reduction in the number of payment obligations will be significantly reduced and the scope of the administrative treatment no longer exists, there is no longer a need for the accounting and payment of fees on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture to be carried out by the Financial Agency, but the tasks in question can be carried out by the Ministry alone. This will also reflect savings in the state budget. The differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft of the law in relation to the solutions of the bill and the reasons for which these differences have arisen. After the debate on the draft law on the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament as well as the debate on 16 September 2020 in the context of the meeting of the third session of the Croatian Parliament, and in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 25 September 2020, which adopted the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests, the Proposer did not comply with the resulting communication with the debate of the Croatian Parliament, the need to amend the proposed solutions for the reason that during the debate at the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, as well as during the plenary session, there were no measurement remarks, no opinions or opinions which would be the subject of the bill's proposal, were already purely about the content of proposals which were not subject to the draft law. Clarifications to questions on certain normative parts of the bill were made by the applicant during the debate on the draft law itself. Since the work of the Croatian Parliament did not give rise to relevant proposals, the proposer identified the need for further regulatory clarification of certain provisions in particular as part of the final draft law during horizontal harmonisation with national legislation. The final proposal for a law amending Article 65(1) in the section relating to the establishment of a base for the calculation of compensation mainly in the case of taxpayers under the tonne of a ship which has so far opened up the possibility of a multiple interpretation. The proposals, observations and opinions given on the draft law which the applicant did not accept and the proposals for non-acceptance, since very limited legal amendments to the proposal for a law have not been issued, no measurement opinions, proposals or remarks are already required for other, nor are requirements for other substantive changes to the wood-processing industry, forest management, public forest operations of the owners, i.e. Croatian forests d.o.o. and others who are not subject to this law, and since they are outside the subject-matter of this law, the proposer could neither consider them nor decide whether to accept them or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24716	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS, HSU's esteemed representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24717	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, the measures in this law, i.e. which will be put to the vote are cosmetic and do not have any major importance in the business of entrepreneurs. those who pay this fee. What we advocate in the HSS is the abolition of all parafiscal charges and the introduction of one payment card for the entrepreneur, so he knows exactly how much he pays the state. Unfortunately, whatever entrepreneur you're asking today he doesn't know how accurate his monthly or annual donations are. As far as Croatian forests are concerned, forest management data is quite devastating and has nothing to do with you ministers. That's one load that's been rolling for at least 25 years. I must admit that you are, despite being self-secret and silent, one of the most qualified agriculture ministers, i.e. Minister, and I'd like you to have your hands free to run this department, I think the results would be far better. This year, 2 million and 344 thousand troops were auctioned, so only parts of the tree. Unfortunately, only 0.67% in the Republic of Croatia has been converted into a final product. We in Croatia have furniture declared as Croatian furniture, only the question of what it is made of. It's mostly made from a splinter of panels imported here, embroidered and perhaps assembled. But you are witnessing when you go to the furniture salons that it is mostly imported furniture which is probably often made from raw materials that grew in Croatia from high-quality raw materials that grew in the Republic of Croatia. If we had encouraged more finalisation of the processing of our raw materials, it would have been likely that the level of employment would have been far higher and would probably have contributed to the increase of GDP in Croatia. But we failed to do so, and what happens to wood mass in Croatia has slowly become a known enigma for which no real truth can be determined. The testimony to that is this year what happened in Podravina when a truck with a cut-off from which the logs were fired. Of course, that truck doesn't have a crane that can put a log in there on its own. Someone else had to put it in there, and apparently someone had to know about it because all the foresters still owe it a certain amount of wood mass and they had to take it apart. I don't believe that someone put himself in their truck that log and that's how they carried it. It's probably not the first one or the last one. But unfortunately, I don't think anything about it has happened to anyone, and no one will answer for it. We sell large quantities of slices and export them instead of using them as a renewable energy source in the Republic of Croatia, to reduce CO2 emissions in our country. Unfortunately, the CO2 emissions with our raw materials reduce the surrounding countries that drive it away from us probably at a more affordable price than they can get in their countries. On the other hand, Croats who heat on wood i.e. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia have so grown the price of heating wood that it is slowly not worth heating up on wood, it is easier to heat up on the gas that we import. Now we're probably going to import it more and more as we're missing this platform? It is very sad to hear from people who live in a rural area who are used to heating up wood so they simply can't get a warm tree to make it themselves in the forest on a tree, to bring it to themselves and to warm themselves with this renewable spring, and besides their houses, the trucks with the logs pass by, with a cut and drive them to some other countries where people think about the economy, they think about energy independence, because Croats don't need it. We seem too rich to deal with it. There's enough forest destruction under the cover of disease and pests. I'm not saying all the memories are done under it. But if sometimes an alibi for it is exactly the occurrence of the diseases and pests that are out there somewhere, somewhere fortunate and gone. But still, the tree suffers from those who trade big and small with the tree. Another problem we don't talk about is private forest owners, private forests. 24% of the forest surfaces are private forests, 660 thousand hectares. 1.5 million cadastar particles the average size of the forest is below 0.74 hectares and I have not noticed that we are doing too much of this, although these are also natural forests of importance for biodiversity, significant for the conservation and water and production of oxygen. I recently spoke to people from these associations who are now complaining about the government’s neglect about this matter and that they would also like to edit their forests. However, they simply can't do it financially, and even when they want to take a certain part of the tree out of the forest, it becomes quite complicated and frustrating under the law to do the part and then there are illegal cuts. So we can also see on television what happens to individuals who usurp, kidnap, who simply untie the tree you can't catch. When you catch them all, it ends up on some police record and, like any other law in the Republic of Croatia, it's not the same for everyone, because apparently some people can do what they want, and some of those petty ones always get hurt for a few kunas that they owe someone. So try to change something about it if you can because it is our legacy and what we leave behind will be our legacy to future generations in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24718	The individual debate is the first to be respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24719	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In this final proposal on the Law on the Forests, I think in these short changes that we are all clear and that already through the debate on behalf of clubs, we have discovered what the law itself deals with since the regulation, use, management of forests, forest land and why we bring these amendments and additions. This final bill in the second reading because we know what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been doing in recent months and that this is one of a series of laws that we are making in the package or for certain reforms whether it's taxing whether it's what we had on a certain day of local self-government or about packages of measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making just to preserve jobs, but also to save the normal economy of the Republic of Croatia, which is very difficult to function for the very pandemic of the Coronal Virus. We know that a plan for reducing non-tax and parafiscal givings has been adopted and that in the debate itself we have talked a lot about and talked about which parafiscal imposes i.e. which parafiscal givings may be abolished before, which some here advocate and abolish, to eliminate all, but we know that this package of measures by the Government is a total reduction in the burden on the economy will be 532 million kuna so that what some say is that even a little of the Ministry of Agriculture would disagree because here 30 million by 30 we get to a certain amount that probably our entrepreneurs will ultimately appreciate and will be less burdened and will be able to function normally. As for these two measures that are ahead of us and related to the compensation for the general services of the forest, which decreases at 10%, 10% and this second measure regarding companies and the increase in the limit of EUR 1 million, where the savings will be 14 million kuna for our economy, this will mean 33 million kuna of one more quality discharge, but we come to the other problem, and therefore there should be some things highlighted, here and commend the ministry, but also every ministry that comes here with certain cuts. The worst thing is when we have some kind of imposition or when we have to cut something, and we simply don't have an answer to how we're going to replace the money that went out of such parafiscal charge or a certain tax, and here it's quite structured, and we know that this parafiscal imposition is going both for the demining process and for the fire industry and for the management of forests and scientific research activities, and normally these are all certain sectors that can't suffer, but we also see that the ministry itself has proposed certain changes. The way we're going to make up for all of this, all of these 30 million that we're going to, with which we're going to relieve our entrepreneurs. So I don't think we should be afraid of demining, it's going to continue especially when we look at all the projects that we're going to deliver through the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, not to mention helping the Ministry of Agriculture through new fire trucks. It is also mentioned here and the European Green Plan, which here and in some ways obliges us to put additional investment efforts into forest surfaces, so I think that certain funds that we will definitely have to replace in order to restore our forest belt, we need to think a little bit about the forest economic base and the very areas of the Republic that are under the authority of the country. Under the authority of the Croatian forests, and tomorrow they can also be available to our municipalities and our cities. I think that these 30 million kunas can certainly be replaced very quickly by including our local self-government together with the ministry, a little speed up the changes to the forest economic base and these basic areas that are under Croatian forests and that as many of these areas as we can listen to with local units and put into operation. I mean, when we put them into office, we're going to give our entrepreneurs, and I can make it up to them very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24720	We have one replica, the distinguished representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24721	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, here is a report by the Court of Auditors of the EU on the latest data from July that Member States have taken around 1,250 different measures to preserve jobs and maintain the liquidity of their businesses, these are measures totaling around 3.5 billion euros and make up 27% of the Member States' GDP. Of course, this has also led to an increase in the budget deficit, but probably also to an increase in economic differences between Member States. But these are the measures that should have been taken, and I believe that through all these new mechanisms that she has designed, the EU will also make one significant contribution to alleviating this crisis. The measure we are bringing here today is also important because it helps relieve the economy, but as we have heard through the EU programmes available will be replaced OKFŠ for... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24722	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24723	Thank you, fellow Petyr, for this comment and for this replica. I agree with you to start the measures that the government normally takes that must be rapid, must be ad hoc to save and maintain economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, but other EU countries do so normally. But here I didn't mention, I think there are a lot of operational programs that the government of the Republic of Croatia and our entrepreneurs will also rely on, in this case, the Ministry of Agriculture. Only related to the operational programme and competitiveness and cohesion of NATURAVITA, which includes 2500 ha, which also provides for budget investment planning 370 million kuna. All of these are some projects that are going to take some time to definitely make up for this difference and this maybe deficit that we now have. which the government had to bring in to maintain economic activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24724	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, MPs and MPs. Over time, we are becoming increasingly aware of the overall impact of the covid-19 disease on which we have reacted best as we were able to through the provision of grants, support to the economy and also through changes in legal acts which further reduced the burden on the economy, and all with a view to preserving jobs, continued production, and thus the functioning of the state. This bill is one of those reactions that will provide a total discharge of 33 million kuna per year. And as great as this side of the medal is, the other side of the medal means a reduction of resources for the general useful functions of the forest at the annual level. Although I support the law of the proposed discharge, I also advocate that the funds that will be missing for the generally useful functions of the forest will be replaced from other sources. These funds are needed to maintain forest infrastructure, forest roads in public and private forest owners, demining and assistance in fire protection, and we need to replace them through a multi-annual financial framework for which programming is under way through rural development measures as well as through the recovery and resilience mechanism. The woods are important because as long as the woods are breathing and we're gonna breathe and if we don't want to keep them for themselves, then we have to keep them for ourselves. For more than a quarter of a century, our foresters have been mastering Croatian forests in a lasting way that can make us a role model for other countries and which is widely known beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia but still insufficiently recognized in Croatia and sometimes criticized. After discussing this law in the first reading, we received a series of comments in which citizens claimed that at certain locations forest management is not in the good master's style, that there are excessive forest cuttings, that forest roads are being destroyed, but also public, county roads when pulling and transporting wood from the forest. Such criticism was answered by the representatives of the forest sector that the activities that are common in forest management, the conversion of degraded forest ingredients and forest structures, the rejuvenation of forests. Because of such conflicting attitudes, but also because of the occurrence of diseases in oak forests, jasen and chestnuts, it is important for us to react quickly and record the real state of our forests and therefore make recommendations for future forest management. It should not be forgotten that Croatia is still struggling with the problem of the leftover mines from the Homeland War, that the demining business is not even close to the end and according to the Croatian Mine Action Centre, the mine suspected area of Croatia is still in the area of 8 counties, i.e. 49 cities and municipalities and is over 280 square kilometers. From 1998 to today, the EU has contributed to the demining process in Croatia with 177.6m euros, and continues to assist further through structural funds. At the time of my term of office when I was a Croatian representative in the European Parliament, I asked the Commission to respect the Treaty on the accession of Croatia to the EU and to respect the mine envelope. The amount intended for demining has therefore been accepted and put into the budget by the Commission. I would also like to say that the Croatian tree should and can be competitive, and the sector can be helped by using domestic wood in other sectors especially when rebuilding or building buildings for public purposes. Construction with one tonne of wood leads to an average reduction in CO2 emissions by as much as 2.1 tonnes throughout the product life cycle compared to one tonne of concrete. It is also estimated that wood construction could store between 10 million and 700 million tonnes of CO2 annually at global level, while reducing emissions due to the production of materials such as steel and concrete. And that is why I advocate that the Croatian tree be first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24726	We have a few replicas. The first is a respected representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24727	Dear fellow Petyr, I agree with you when you say you need to secure from other sources. At first, I thought about which ones. You're the ones who listed them. I hope he will listen to you because you are in a place where he will listen to you, so what you wanted will happen. You mentioned that part of the desolation, i.e. Is the forest due to different diseases intersecting. Otherwise, that's the most common excuse. We are aware that not only are ice rains frozen, etc., but we are always told that we need to take a look at some of the analysis we have. I hope not, but I think Croatia will literally have someone from the EU who will look at how we manage the woods the day after tomorrow. What you said to the non-Croatian tree first. I'd say Croatian forest first. Here we all are in masks. We need the forest to breathe, and it's enough that you can't go to Sljeme that's not only illegally cut, but you yourself know what happens when you cut and control it. That waterways, streams, etc. are covered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24728	Time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24729	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Boris, I certainly find it extremely important that we maintain the good health of our forests so that they are functional and for this reason it is necessary to invest certain financial resources. We all understand and support that it is very important to disburse the economy at this time and therefore we must wisely approach the preparation of projects that are as much information as I have in one phase of production, and in order to replace from European funds these funds that we will miss for the implementation of projects that are important for the maintenance of common forest functions. I also have to mention that since you were talking about Sljemen, you know for yourself that Sljeme Park is a nature park which is the master of a public institution, and then perhaps it would be good to request information from a public institution, which is why, in your opinion, there may be some deviations in good governance with that forest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24730	Time. The next replica, the distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24731	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrs. Petir, here's the president of the Agriculture Committee. We all want to help the economy, relieve it especially with this parafiscal part. But then when we do it on the other side of the assembly, how it's cosmetics, how it's populism. And I think it's actually very hypocritical and very incorrect. Anything that can help relieve or relieve the economy I think praise is worth it. This 33 million may not seem like much, but when all that seems to be summed up, I think it makes one sum that will significantly facilitate the functioning of our economy, especially in the time of the crown of the crisis that we are in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24732	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24733	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ivanovic, I wouldn't even say that 33 million kunas are not much. That's a lot of money, and when you have to in one situation where you don't have enough to isolate, save, give up, then it still gets an extra dimension. I believe that any redundancy of the economy and investment in the economy and preservation of jobs is good. Through the measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken since the crisis, so far it will be saved and invested around 10 billion kuna to help the economy. Of course, we would all like it to be much more and more and more isolated, but we also need to take care of some other sectors that need to work. You are a member of the Committee on Agriculture, and as I do, you want the economy to spread, but also that the forests have adequate care, and we need some financial resources for that. So we always have to have a balance in everything we bring.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24734	Time. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24735	Thank you, Vice President. We must point out, fellow Petyr, that almost 40% of this collection fee went to demining. You pointed out yourself that we're not done with the demining business yet, and there's been a lot of debate about it. But we must stress, demining is not going and is not being financed exclusively from this parafiscal fee and you have mentioned exactly the structural and cohesion funds of the European Union. And I just have to point out that in the next three-year period right under the National Plan for... and recovery has already been submitted with proposals for demining forests and forest land, at a total amount of 2 billion kuna resources, so that we can immediately remove this fear that demining will not continue to remove such parafiscal burdens. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24736	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24737	Thank you very much. You're right. The demining will continue and it must continue, because I must say when I brought here to Croatia the Committee on Agriculture of the European Parliament and when we told them to the representatives of the forestry and wood sector that we still have more than 280 square kilometers below mines, that they were despondent and that the europarliamentaries from other Member States did not know that data. Of course, that also made it easier for us to find our position when we asked that regardless of the reduction in the European budget that is inevitably due to Brexit, our agricultural budget is not touching and that we are not touching our mine envelope and we have succeeded. Here's what I'm especially proud of.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24738	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24739	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues in your debate have pointed out that one big problem is that they die of chestnut forests, which is true. We also have more and more chestnuts in northern Croatia that die because of coral cancer. As far as I know, there's a plum and chestnut center somewhere near you in Petrinja, so it would be good to give them a little bit more importance. But when we talk about demining, that is where you pointed out that from 98 to today the European Union has participated with 177 million euros. But perhaps it would be good to say the full amount, which is over 5 and a half billion kuna, Croatia has so far invested in demining. And now we can only imagine what that amount is, how much we could build for it, and 2/3 of those funds were our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24740	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24741	Thank you, dear fellow Striker, for this comment. Yes, it's true and you reminded me well that I was actually one of those who initiated and formed this Centre for plums and pytomic chestnuts in the city of Petrinja. This is extremely important to us because not only in the area of Petrinja, but also in the Croatian Kostanica, we have rich chestnut forests, and they are really under the influence of the disease. We talked to the Minister on the Agriculture Committee yesterday about this problem as well as other diseases that appear on the oak and clear, and I am pleased that the Ministry has shown understanding and pointed out that expert bases will be made, that calls are already under way, public calls are under way where through these professional bases will try to find a solution for the recovery of forests that have been attacked by various diseases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24742	Replica's esteemed representative, Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24743	Dear Mrs Petir, you are very well aware that there has been organised forestry and forestry in Croatia for 250 years and that this has practically resulted in 95% of the natural forests we currently have in the Republic of Croatia. I must point out that these natural forests are both the most stable in both ecological and biological and other terms, and that this fact is recognised at EU level and we absolutely enjoy the status of a quality and orderly forest country. You also know that in forestry in Croatia it is generally managed by the sustainability of management. This means that it is always cut considerably less than natural growth. Somewhere in Croatia is currently cut... is about 8 million cc's, and natural growth is over 10 million cc's. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which means it ensures the security, i.e. the sustainability of the management and stability of our forests and for the generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24744	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24745	Well, you're absolutely right and I think that this example that Croatia has is often pointed out everywhere, and I personally brought it to the European Parliament because at one point we had an attempt at certain structures to try to put their paws on forest policy. You know that forest policy is within the competence of Member States not of the European Union and, through the adoption of the European Forest Strategy, it has tried to reverse it as a trend. On this very example of Croatia's good and long-term necessary forest management and, of course, with the help of colleagues from Austria, but also Finland and Sweden, we have had the opportunity to defend our forests in some way to remain in the management of the national Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24746	Thank you. The next individual debate is MP Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24747	... Well here we have heard of course that this measure, however small or large, that 33 million will, however, have a positive impact on the business of economic operators. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] However, we would still be interested, and we would be interested in one small piece of information, which is how 583 million were originally planned, 606 thousand etc. The kuna invested in the 20th and second for forest management was invested only 228. We're wondering where the road went in the woods if the wolf ate them, did the Red Hood take them to Grandma, where 355,000 kuna went missing? So that 33 versus 355. Secondly, since we expect that it will help the economy, the forests will not be cut or cut themselves, nor will they take care of themselves. So we're curious, I'm going back to these workers. So I calculated according to 31.10 that there are 16552 workers in the Croatian forests, so there are, therefore, the largest number of permanent employees. But it is the Administration of the Croatian Forests that avoids and implements the general acts of their own internal ones that have entered into force 1. Kolovoza, which is usually three years late under the agreement, concerns better working and material status of workers. Until on the one hand we know nothing about the business bonus of the Croatian Forests we know that some different reconnaissances are currently being done there. So, this bonus is covered with veiled secrets, and otherwise Croatian forests, i.e. The management shall, on a quarterly basis, be required to inform the working council, for example. We also don't know what it is that Croatian forests are looking for more than 200 million kunas from wood growers who haven't paid them, but we know that workers won't get the contract commitments they've taken over by collective agreement or various additions, stimulation, part of Easter, allowances for the third pension column or Christmas Christmas Christmas. Well, they won't take care of themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24748	We have one replica, Honorable Representative Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24749	In your previous presentation, you presented a number, i.e. a problem of employment somewhere around 500 people, or cartilages in the Croatian forests. I don't know why that's the problem. That should be good for me, though. Do you even know how old the average age of the cartilage cartilage workers in the Croatian forests is? Unfortunately, it's been over 50 years. It's over 50 years and given the working conditions in which these people work, it's really too much. And now that he's trying to rejuvenate, when he's trying to accommodate young people, that's the problem. I'll only tell you one plastic example. Used to be in the Batin Forest when I was working, there were 75 people working now around 25. And now that you're trying to accept a number of new young people, that's your problem. However, I think it should be absolutely good that we have young people who will sort of improve that production, develop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24750	Well, I'm afraid you haven't heard from me or the Minister. I referred to her as talking about extending the contracts to, like, cutlers or I don't know who she meant everything and I showed up at the data difference between March 2020. And now at the end of the year, that actually in a permanent working relationship 200 people were admitted, but not received evenly as you think. So no re-enactment was received with no field workers. They were received just as I cited an example of five in the Croatian Forests in the administration of five young lawyers. So, Croatian forests believe me what I know will have control from the European Commission and about the management of forests and the spending of European money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24751	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Davor Find.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24752	Honorable Vice President, esteemed fellow MPs. Here is a proposal to reduce the fee for using a general useful function of the forest which is definitely a step in the right direction and the fact that the percentage is reduced, but also the fact that the threshold of income is actually set by which companies are bonded to pay the same. What I would certainly like is that it is actually a more courageous discharge. Why braver? Well, we all know that because of the situation in the world, but also some bad decisions in Croatia, the Croatian economy is in a deep recession, in such a deep recession that, according to the European Commission's estimates, we will only actually return to the level of 2019 in 2023. So four years we've actually lost. Here we are talking about a fee that is calculated as a percentage of income, and the minister mentioned that actually this tax discharge of 33 million kuna was calculated on the basis of last year's indicators if I understood it well, which means that in the meantime we entered a deep recession that this discharge would actually be less than 33 million kuna. But, well, unlike yesterday's announced discharge that will not be realistically, this is still a positive step. What I think should be considered, though, is that the recession is most affected by micro and small entrepreneurs. So when we have a situation that we will not return to the level of 2019 for 4 years then we still need to see how to help these very small entrepreneurs, and in this law it is good that all micro entrepreneurs are now excluded. But it would be good to free small entrepreneurs. In fact, small entrepreneurs in Croatia are about 7% to 8% of companies with 20% employees and create 21% of added value. I think it's one of the great development potentials we need to preserve. This is the backbone of the economy, and precisely to facilitate their recovery from this crisis, I believe that the threshold for applying this fee should be raised to 60 million kunas of revenue as one of the criteria for transition from the category of small to medium-sized entrepreneurs. Anyway, I filed that amendment. Whether he'll be accepted, so I guess he probably won't. But here I appeal once again to the ruling to consider it. I am sure that in the budget of 150 billion kuna can be found in some other items of space for financing everything that is financed from this fee and that there is still so much space to disburse all small entrepreneurs as it has been done for micro entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24753	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24754	Well, here's the thing: Discharge the employees a little bit. They've been getting tired all day. Thank you very much. Here is after this debate on one significant resource about being about removing one of the parafiscal duties, i.e. the reduction of parafiscal burdens involving 33 million kuna releases from 500 and several VAT-free charges where Croatian entrepreneurs and businessmen are burdened, are mainly burdened by those who do not have a political relationship and cannot participate in public procurement and have given up a number and quit because public procurement is negotiated in the clubs mainly by political sponsors who are there. We know that three ministers were involved in the lockdown and there were no sanctions or penalties. So this PR that lets the government as your ministry, as we are now going to give the entrepreneurs a covid of relief for this 33 million kuna. But this is a much wider problem for Croatia's forests as a national resource renewable energy source where we can, so these displaced areas can bring our people back to work, to create additional values. But it's not like that. I'll do it a hundred times. I'm saddened when I come to the Gorski Kotar, when I see it's empty and we have that resource. The only thing in the Gorski kotar is the unselective saw of the balvani, sent to Italy together with our people where additional value is created, people who have qualifications, tradition and entire family leave and the Gorski kotar is empty. And all that furniture extra value or some other wood product they sell us as extra value and empty state to us. So these things that you've been throwing away these last few days to show how you hold on to strategic resources don't work out for me. You can freely replicate your colleagues, the government's representative can come out and deny me how much wood in the Republic of Croatia is, in fact, balvana as raw materials, the highest quality raw materials. How much to drive to Hungary, to Italy, how much to sell through fictitious companies, that resource of ours, our gold, our folk gold as much as is not used, that we now have two-thirds of Croatia empty. This is one of the resources. We're talking about one... The land that is also unprocessed without the energy of our potentials that we have from the sun's energy, our wind that only blows like Krš – Padjan and every turn from the pocket to the people... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're spinning, they're blowing that dinar vitar neatly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He can't stop, nor can he stop. So our resources as an exclusive economic belt. Until the other day, the economic belt and my proposal I made here for five years against which it was regularly voted was the same as ZERP. Now suddenly the same guy Branko Bacic used to say it wasn't right, and now all of a sudden it's working. Now I don't know which one they prefer, Branko Bacic. Maybe it was the better one. But, well, let's pass the exclusive economic belt, and we'll clap because we're still under pressure when Italy came to mind, we've declared ourselves an exclusive economic belt and that it extends our sovereign right to 24,000 square miles. However, in the end it is the most important and it is the victory of the Croatian people and it is a sovereign right regardless of what we have spoken and what no one will answer, what has not been declared before and what the Italians of other fishing fleets have done as they wanted in our Adriatic, it is another thing as well as the forests, as well as in the waters. I said stock exchange. Now there's water, drinking water on the stock market as well as oil. We are our sources, the source of the river Cetina, St. Rock, Jamnica all the biggest sources are given in the concession, I repeat in the concession. Cetina argued in 37 seconds at the government of Zoran Milanovic, 37 seconds and left for 5,000 kuna for a decades concession for foreign investors, Cetina's clear water, clean. At least we can irrigate the field with that water. So I think when I see Israel, they have one river. I think more of our source, a tributary throws out ore or grab the river Cetina than all the sources in Israel, and Israel exports its agricultural products and we import three billion euros. And now a great help from the Euro MPs. We have never produced less since we joined the EU. I don't know what he's into. It's the same with the woods. The forest is a resource, and this is cheap pulsism, cheap demagogy, cheap PR that you're saying is that you're thinking about entrepreneurs. Don't think about anyone! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24755	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Sinisha Jankač.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24756	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, here's another law reading ahead of us. Well, I'd rather agree with some discussions, some I definitely disagree with, and some I'd agree with in part. Well, here's what I'm going to do. However, it is definitely necessary to support the Croatian government's insistence to reduce the burdens especially in these difficult moments towards entrepreneurs. And it's smart and it's good that it's been put into certain frameworks and that entrepreneurs are thinking especially about these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Definitely a reduction in the load makes sense in these difficult moments. By the way, this so-called. It would not be a good thing to call him that, though, because it is one of the few things we can say that has its own strict purpose. That's what there's been a lot of talk about here, and that strict purpose we hope will continue to focus on exactly the functions it's intended for. A reduction in the burdens, as a colleague of the SDP here has told large entrepreneurs who are often in foreign ownership. Here's where I could agree with her because here we had a tax reduction on profit, so we definitely went out there to meet entrepreneurs and I don't think we should cut the percentage in the future, but that maybe we should think that at some point and come back for those who are big entrepreneurs. Because as we've heard this imposition has its meaning, it has its function and it brings something good. So it is definitely there to mention that Croatian forests have a quality lordship with their forests. And as we have heard here from colleagues from HSU that not all forests are owned by Croatian forests, but a good part over 20, about 22% of these forests are owned by private forest owners. Now that's where we find serious problems, because that's what I was talking about in the last debate, and maybe in some part of it we're going to get into trouble again, the problems that the Republic of Croatia has, which is definitely that we have a lot of small owners of these private forests that are often not even real owners, aren't enlisted, and that's where we get those little forest owners to sell those forests, and then those who exploit these forests do it exactly in a bad way, to exploit the hamlets, to take them down the hammets means they're out of control. If we look at the Croatian forests that were criticised here, I can say that Croatian forests exploit our forests but under control. They're working under control. In fact, here, when it comes to private forest owners, not those big private forest owners that don't get called, we often encounter problems, and your problems are next. That very simply licenses can be removed, i.e. The signs for the cutting of the forest, but for those who draw the signs to take out a sign for one forest, and for them to cut ten forests. Here I would like to appeal again from this pay phone to the ministry to think about changing the law, to focus more on the restriction of unscrupulous cutting of private forests. Because often these private forest owners who sell their forests are not responsible for the cutting, but some who take advantage of the situation and, unfortunately, the police are not able to punish and let's say cutlers, exploiters and I think that here, too, many of the debates that have been conducted and the criticisms that have come, I think, were wrongly directed towards the Croatian forests, that they should first be directed at these exploiters that uncontrollably exploit these private forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24757	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Martina Grman Kizavit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24758	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague is very glad that you agree partly with me that this OKFŠ fee actually suits the richest, those who have the biggest income and those who draw profits from our country. I'm very glad that you're even agreeing with me and our position, and it's in that sense that if it's already making so much money, then maybe we should pay a little more. As far as deforestation is concerned, the area from which I come is partly agreed that not all the guilty Croatian forests, but the area from which I come is quite devastationed by now. And I agree with you now that it still needs a little more control and I agree that maybe some new law would bring a little more order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24759	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24760	Thank you, colleague. Well, here I think it's hit here that it's relieved small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It was dispersing and generally all entrepreneurs. I hope you'll agree in some future with me when maybe that amount, the percentage of the intrusion will return. And here we hope that one day he will return when we return to normal, especially for what you have said to those who are often and privately owned, and that this is one as we have said useful, here I would not say imposing but a useful means to be exploited, as we have heard here from demining, from fire, from purification of forests, from forest roads, from editing of forest roads, from foresting of both national forests and private forests. And here's hoping that in the future you might support the Ministry and the Government if they're going to say that they're going to return the quota especially for these big entrepreneurs who are here, I don't think whoever has it to them is so burdensome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24761	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24762	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I was invited to repeat the debate I held during the first reading of these amendments and the addition of the Law on the Forests. That is what my colleagues from the Primorje-Gorski County, from the ranks of the Croatian Democratic Community, offered me first and foremost, not to call it absolutely. But they simply inspired, inspired, or encouraged me. Because the debates I heard on their part these days were of course honored by the SDP government of Zoran Milanovic to abolish the mountain-mounted law. That's true, that's true without further ado, but we can't stay on it. I mean, after that sin, the government of Zoran Milanovic, HDZ, had six years to repair the situation in the Gorski Kotar. One part is made, maybe, maybe not. But when we talk about this particular topic, I have just called on the motion that, with the proposed changes and complementing the second reading, it complements the proposal to increase the forest contribution from 10% to 20% for assisted areas. It certainly wasn't done so I'm disappointed. But then my friends and colleagues from the HDZ from the Primorje-Gorski County to apologize can't respect me anymore for what Zoran Milanovic abolished the Brdsko-Moline Law, because since then my colleagues haven't done much. I know that there was a Working Group headed by Gabriela Žalac in which the same people who signed what is called the Declaration on the Gorski Kotar, which was unanimously voted in the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, in 2014 both by the HDZ and by the SDP and by all other political parties represented at that time in the County Assembly. The same declaration was signed by HDZ mayors, or mayors from the Gorski Kotar, by independent mayors and mayors, and by the SDP mayors and mayors. And I'm going to read one piece of that declaration that all the members of the government and all the parliamentary representatives had at that time. Therefore, in the light of the fact that 83% of the total surface area of Gorski kotar is covered by the forest, the Primorje-Gorski County estimates that units of the local self-government of Gorski Kotar in whose area the forest is cut down should be made by a forest contribution through amendments to the existing Forest Act of a minimum of 20% of the sales value of wood mass. That's what 2014 said. That's what was said during Zoran's government. Karamark's government didn't do anything. One of Plenkovic's governments passed. I mentioned it and I reminded this new Plenkovic government in the context of the debate at the first reading point of the agenda. It couldn't be done, it couldn't be done. So if I really accepted the criticism that is related to the government of Zoran Milanovic and the abolition of the mountain-mounted mountain-mountan, to apologize after this by my friends and colleagues from the HDZ from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, I will find such criticism completely and absolutely immaterial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24763	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24764	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. By reading this Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests, I have established a number of positive aspects in the very changes he carries with him. The meaning of the corrections in question reflects the specific needs of the sector in view of the new circumstances and will contribute to the impact where this is most important and this is on the ground among the users themselves. Thus, what is extremely important in the light of these unremembered circumstances, the amendments to the law affect the reduction of the influence of the pandemic caused by the covid-19 virus on the Croatian economy. Furthermore, tax or non-taxable burdens on economic operators are reduced to preserve economic activity, liquidity, business and job conservation. Entrepreneurs of 33 million kuna are also relieved. The amendments to this Act specifically suggest reducing the rate from the current 0.265% to the newly proposed rate of 0,024%. The reduction in the rate will directly act positively on the business of all economic operators that are the payment bonds concerned. Increase the total annual income and income from the current three million kuna to the newly proposed 7 and a half million kuna. This would reduce the number of payers by about 50% compared to their current number, which specifically means that out of the current 20,000 taxpayers, the number would be reduced to about 10 and a half thousand. This revenue is used as we have heard of special purposes whose use and purpose is established by the Law on Forests. Demining forests and forest land, fire work, management of state forests, management of private forests and scientific and research work in forestry. In order to reduce revenues from generally useful forest functions, it is possible to expect a slight reduction of activities in demining, fire and forest management activities. However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has a clear vision of its work, where it has predicted what is evident from the reasons for the amendments to the law, for example, these reductions will be compensated multiplely from the purchase of fire trucks via the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Interior until projects have already been submitted under the National Resistance and Recovery Plan for the total value of around two billion kuna, and from the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion where an additional 370 million kuna is invested. To this end, I would like to stress that the implementation of the NATURA VITA project is recently approved at over 2500 hectares of forest resources in the area of Nature Park Kopački rit and the regional park Mura – Drava. It's final. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is seeking, by its clear policy of encouraging entrepreneurship and strengthening the economy, by amending the Law on Forests to entrepreneurs, i.e. economic operators, to reduce untaxed giving or imposing, and to facilitate their business, which is generally commendable for the proposal and especially at the time of the current pandemic. Taking into account all the above-mentioned amendments to this law, I consider and assess it positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24765	One replica, the esteemed representative of Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24766	Dear fellow Radic, we have heard the same request for the second time in the debate of the Home Movement representatives. For the first time in the budget debate, Mr Škoro said, it is now said by Mrs Vuciilovic, his sister that it is necessary to cut or abolish funds in the budget designed for the development of hunting. It's working somewhere around 70 million kuna. At first, I thought they didn't know what it was about, or what those funds were specifically meant for. Obviously they don't know or simply don't take care of people on the ground mainly in Slavonia and Baranja, which is also their electoral base, where the problem of savages is thick and which has been a problem for tens of years and more and this is the first attempt to try to find a solution to prevent the damage from savages. They did not go into a measure of trouble at all, but simply they were against it because it seemed kind of unnecessary to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24767	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24768	Thank you, sir. Comrade Shaslin, so it's right that you and I are coming from Slavonia and Baranja, from Osijek-Baranja County, we often talk to farmers and we know what problems are bothering them, and this problem that you said is about 60 million kuna the ministry for the first time predicted to prevent the damage from savages, and those funds as you said will end up with farmers because they are exactly going to receive compensation for it. It is also one of the basic meanings of the existence of a sustainable hunting economy to strike a balance between the number of game and the preservation of agricultural and forest devastations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24769	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ljubomir Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24770	The esteemed chairperson, respected colleagues and fellow sentences announcing these amendments to the law say that these changes regulate compensation for the use of common forest functions through a reduction in the rate for its calculation and an increase in the limit for the determination of the obligation to pay compensation. With the explanation we've got clear is actually about the measure of aiding the economy. The economy that is very important to us right now, I'm not saying this by heart, my development from the middle from which I come from the city of Prelog back, for many years, owes exactly to the economy. The economy with both small and medium-sized and large craftsmen and companies dealing with the finalisation of wood means the production of windows, furniture and other wood products. By speaking to these masters, any abolition of any imposition is very welcome, and every kuna, which relieves them and makes them very happy. We have heard earlier about the reduction in the rate at which the compensation in question is charged and the part of the exemption from the payment of compensation for legal and natural persons. I believe that activities in demining activities, fire and forest management will continue because the common forest functions should not only apply to money, the reference should also apply to the biological restoration of forests, to the management of forests on karst, to works on recovery and the restoration of threatened forests where we have diseases and other disasters. I believe and I am sure that we will find both the Government and the Ministry of Finance and make up for that those activities are not being reduced or continued. I believe that money from EU funds will be used in particular rural development measures where there is a possibility that local self-government, entrepreneurs and private forest owners can report on investment measures in forest infrastructure and thus be compensated for part of the investment. However, I repeat and think that we will have more benefits than those of any small.../incomprehensible/... positive effects on the business of economic operators and by implementing this law, we will make a certain contribution to the preservation of economic activity, liquidity of business and the preservation of jobs, which is the most important right now. Any reduction in any parafiscal burden is in the interest of entrepreneurship, and then state and ultimately of all its citizens. I would remind you now just before my colleague Jenkač said nicely that we should pay particular attention to those who overuse the forest surface as well as to the problem of editing and destroying in fact the forest roads. However, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I welcome the discharge provided for by these amendments to the laws which, as soon as possible, relieve entrepreneurs of the fees and give at least a slight wind in the back for their functioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24771	We have one replica, the distinguished representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24772	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, you said how important it is to relieve the economy. You come from a city where entrepreneurship and craftsmanship are highly developed, where unemployment is literally reduced to a minimum and you have daily contacts, and I know that you have also developed a serious and wood processing sector that operates not only in Croatia but are also large exporters. So I'm interested in the contacts that you've had with them as well as this discharge, but also in the assistance that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided so far through various measures of tax relief, aid in pay, which is worth nearly 10 billion kuna. And if you can tell me as head of a local self-government whether you're facing the problem of destroying the forest roads and whether the money you're getting from the forest contribution for that purpose is enough for you to have them restore. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24773	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24774	On this issue what was very important and important was in the first wave of the crown crisis in the 3rd and 4th months, one of our large company 760 workers has survived, living, working and 6th month of this year has had stronger production than last year and in this crown crisis continues to work, fighting and such, removing these burdens that regardless of whether they are small or large, the other day an entrepreneur told me a small one has 5 employees, dealing with wood processing, 100,000 kuna is big money for me because I will invest in equipment and further forward, improving production. As far as the arrangements of the Polish roads are concerned, there is definitely one problem with private forest owners where they don't even know their property and there are problems. As far as Croatian forests are concerned, these relationships are much more quality, much higher level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24775	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24776	Here, let's do it again, so the total expected deficit in the budget and aid to entrepreneurs and businesses here will be 33 million kuna. Only for an illustration of a multi-purpose defense helicopter this year will cost 57 million kuna. The reductions of course are by taking to.../incomprehensible/... those popular choruses we've heard here probably one hundred times that entrepreneurs should be relieved. But what will be the consequence of this? First, the Law on the Impact Assessment of Regulations provides for the ex ante assessment to determine the direct effects of the acts proposed. In this as well as a series of other laws, no effects are envisaged or analyses are made, all happening on the basis of some of the general chores that are juggling in public space to relieve entrepreneurs. However, it clearly stands in this law, regardless of what is said to be not an assessment of direct effects, it clearly states that this reduction will result in a reduction in demining, fire and forest management activities. And so, in the situation where we have the same lack of logic in the demining plan, a certain less demining area this year than needed so that there was a discharge of pyrotechnics, the minister is optimistic, so I don't suppose a long time will be demining Croatia, but I'm told by the pyrotechnics that it doesn't just mean that we have much more to demining but the thing is that they're carrying out irrational plans, which is why 70 people got fired this year, and another 100 of them are going to get fired in the plan, and yet at some point they're going to be needed, but there won't be any more. So these are very specialized people once you lose a professional frame, you can't bring it back that easily. Therefore, the effects and impact of the measures on activities such as demining, fire and other general forest functions are certainly negative. Secondly, there is no projection that such a minimum discharge will help entrepreneurs, if so far entrepreneurs have paid a fee of 0.0265% of the total income, and only those above 30 million revenues, and with them above 7.5 million revenues, what savings it will be, and whether it will really be more relevant to their position, reflect on their position and really relieve entrepreneurs. It is clear how such measures are taken as yesterday's, for example, changes to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government for nothing but popularity. Today, under the pressure of some lobbies, it became only understandable to cut taxes, parafiscal burdens, so, despite the irrationality of such measures, they still benefit from them, and the growth of popularity is what they are interested in. But to that eternal question why don't you cut it yet, the minister answered, but we've cut it and cut it still, we'll cut it. Why? Because of the popularity of the socially fabricated consensus that entrepreneurs will be helped in this way without asking the right questions. What are the real questions? So our entrepreneurs won't be relieved because there's no question why only 15% of our entrepreneurs are exporting, why is the foreign exchange deficit of about 72 billion kuna? So will 33 million kuna relief mean anything in this context? What these measures will certainly not succeed, and what would really be real changes as many economists warn, is to launch growth engines, meaning big businesses, invest in business branches that have the possibility of multiplier effects, creating large entities to which small satellites connect, which is, say, able to make a wood industry that is one of such engine drivers of development. It also needs to be made competitive, competitive in the EU market and achieved opportunities for multiplying the effects of being an industry that attracts other industries. So what the Croatian forests are doing irrationally can't be an excuse to further devastate them. Clientialist and irrational means selling wood that some mention is one thing but just the profit of Croatian forests and tax revenues can, with the help of state subsidies and supervision, start transformations. Therefore, a specialised export bank is needed, smart industrial policies are needed, the state needs to invest in these industries that have multiplier effects And then it won't be a bottomless hole. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24777	Final debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24778	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with an associate, please allow me to say a few words at the end. I listened exhaustively to this debate that took place here in the Croatian Parliament, I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture and above all, before I say anything, I will commend the Minister of Agriculture who is at every meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and really wants to help in every way. What we have been listening to here in these two hours in the Croatian Parliament I will be aware of in a few sentences that I think are necessary at the moment to pronounce. When the government has the intensities to reduce any imposition that is aimed at dissipating the economy, and we are mostly talking about these parafiscal intrusions, here in the Parliament happens a debate that takes more than two and a half hours instead of solving it in a few minutes. It's something that relieves the economy of 33 million kunas. Someone's gonna say it's small, someone's gonna say it's a lot. But what we certainly cannot observe only through the prism of this one amendment to the law, we, in the last four months, practically have a discharge at each session when it comes to the economy of the Republic of Croatia, and in terms of this monster that we are fighting, which is the Corona virus. To call this cosmetics and pulsism, I don't think it's an appropriate term. You know what populism is? The population is when Mr Bernardic comes to the Parliament after two months and says the morgues are full in Croatia. Now, that's populism, that's hypocrisy. It is a man who receives a salary from Croatian taxpayers, and appears every two months in the Croatian Parliament and then comes here to discuss that no one can give him a replica, that no one can answer him, report for free speech and then leave. Where? On Sljeme, he drinks wine, lightness rests and someone else fight with everything he calls out in this House of Commons. See, that's populism and hypocrisy. I'm a man who hasn't learned such things. And when I came here to the Croatian Parliament, and for the first time I was here on this tenth term, I thought and I would think that this High House is using exactly what we've been discussing, to help people who are part of their income, i.e. most of their income, give to us for public administration. It is this partnership that must exist between businessmen and politicians, not in the sense that they please us to them or to us in a way that is often perceived in Croatia, but just this way. We reduce everything we can reduce, do everything we can to make Croatia what the generations of Croats dreamed of before us. But there will be no news of a reduction in these parafiscal charges, there will be news in the end that Mr Bernardic came to the Croatian Parliament, fired a steam and then left. Now that's not good, it's not that Croatia that at least I and my colleagues from the HDZ Club see and we want to fight and we want to show that it can be done whenever you want and when you want to. It's something I think we should do, so here's another welcome to this amendment of the law, and I think it's just maybe a small part of the mosaic we want to create, but we're definitely on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24779	We don't have a replica, you can go to the scene. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24780	Thank you, dear Vice President. The parliamentary representative injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, because he was talking about a subject that wasn't the subject of debate. It's clear to me that you're obsessed with SDP agents, but as the king of the populists, instead of sticking to the subject, you've stuck to the SDP agent. And I'm asking you nicely to warn the MPs that they have to stick to the subject they're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24781	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're being warned because you used a breach of the Rules of Procedure to teach a lesson to a gentleman. Final debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24782	At the beginning of this debate, I would like to congratulate my friend and war hero General Željko Sacic, who today thanks to his intervention at the beginning of this session of the Parliament from the Croatian Broadcasting Programme has been removed from the film "What is this State" So, suddenly half an hour ago, she replaced the film Vis a vis. [[- Insect: Bravo.]] And "What state is this?" is a film that talks about stealing a coffin with the remains of Dr. Franjo Tudjman was scheduled to appear today, just today, when the 21st anniversary of the death of the late general, the military leader and the first president of the Croatian state was Dr. Francis Tudjman. This is all about the Croatian state, this is all about the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, this is all about the management of Croatian Radio Television. And if it hadn't been for General Zeljko Sacic, if it hadn't been for his voice here in this Croatian Parliament this film would have appeared. It's an embarrassing movie in an embarrassing time. And we really need to ask ourselves which country is this? Are we a normal country? Are we even a state? Shame on you all! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24783	You're getting a warning, because this wasn't the final debate about this and don't call what country this is. This is the Croatian state. The next final debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24784	A lovely greeting, Mr. Chairman, honoring Madam Minister with a co-worker, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. It is only then that for a moment within the framework of this or these amendments to the Law on Forests that we remind only one of the budgetary amendments to the Homeland Movement. So he was on regular number 50. In that amendment, we asked for an increase in the value of paragraph 820065 and for it to be the general useful functions of the forest. We suggested that this item be proposed from 80 million kuna to 100 million kuna. Our thinking has proven well to be respected, Madam Minister, and at this point as a ok, because the increase in this article of 20 million kuna in the state budget would be more than half of the savings envisioning these amendments to the law. So the existing as we all call it parafiscal force could also further reduce its rate, and the new existing means could be used to speed up the completion of the demining process, which unfortunately we all know is inconclusive. We suggested that when you take it or add it somewhere, you have to take a reduction in item A568060 of hunting from 71 to 51 million kuna. If I'm not mistaken, I think I came up here somewhere to trace the reaction of respected, respected HDZ colleagues, so I came to explain to them exactly where you saw the Homeland Movement against the Croatian Forests, against their sustainable use, where you heard that Miroslav Škoro and Vesna Vucilovic or any other representative of the Homeland Movement against Slavonia, against the Croatian Forests, against Croatia in general? What are your accounts in your heads for the fact that the Homeland Movement does not represent its Slavonia and in the rest of its entire Croatia? Where are you? Tell me, dear care providers of Croatian forests when, in our immediate vicinity, for 5 or 6 years, there has been a frenzy devasion of Zagreba gora or Medvednica and no one knows where all these wooden buildings disappear under cover, so to speak. Sanitary cuts? Where you have been for 30 years since you came to power when sitting in Slavonia watching as huge cranes from Krndija, the Papuka take the logs to Italy or other countries, and then we buy expensive designer furniture because it is not worth cutting down the forest and making their own furniture and someone calculated that it is better to give the commission to the import lobby, and of course the state will always charge itself through VAT because it is obviously much, much more effective than investing in the development of the domestic industry. Not to say that there are many other people who use so-called. products with added value that pay expensive money, we advocate among other things, and for one part of agriculture called agriculture agriculture. Did you know that top Croatian winemakers who achieve extraordinary results in world competitions buy barrels from Italy or France? So it's that a man's tears drop, that a Croat doesn't know how to make wine barrels, but he has to buy it in Italy. So, not to end up with the barrels, I wanted to tell you dear colleagues and colleagues from HDZ that we share the same desire to protect this country, but we do not share the same way of political thinking, and especially not political calling. We are always with you to discuss the particularly respected representative of Shashin who quite politically wisely took advantage of the moment when for our consultation we left the assembly, to use our empty chairs here to be able to say it freely from the darkness in the back of the Homeland Movement. But we're not dealing with it, we're dealing with who's coming out here in front of this pay phone and in front of the Croatian regiment and he's just telling you openly you're wrong, you're completely wrong about this, your shot and the blow from behind in the dark is completely missed. The country movement loves and will protect its country of Croatia for the rest of its life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24785	Next final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24786	After the inspired speech, we see mainly representatives of the HDZ Club, what demagogy is, what is pulsism, how many delusions and how many mists can be said from this pay phone so that's amazing. Care about Croatian national interests, mainly about key strategic national interests such as Croatian forests are exactly what the least tribals would talk about are those who have managed Croatian forests lately, and mainly with other resources. It's just that I've always been drawn to the paradigm by the distinguished ministers on your valley of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County neighbor Branko Bačić, who, by day, said that the economic belt is crazy, that it's useless that it's not useful, that what we're talking about and why I suggest and from no day now we have another Branko Bačić who says now that the Italians have said declare an exclusive economic belt like that on the chain of Tajani they say we'll declare it. And it's good to declare it, I'll clap first because it's the victory of the Croatian people. But who will be responsible for the damage to the exclusive economic belt? So in the Croatian forests the same thing, so we threw 24,000 m2 under our sovereign right, extending our sovereign right to the Adriatic, for years we gave others to weigh down, to destroy flora and fauna to do whatever they wanted, to harm our fishermen. It's a law that will be and as far as the aquarium is concerned, and you've thoroughly defended it and often defended that the exclusive economic belt and the ZERP are the same then what you're proposing. I will vote for it because I am aware that we are getting something and that is the victory of the Croatian people, not Mira Bulja, I thank Toncia Tadic, all of the predecessors of the MPs who tried to push it and explain it mainly there is the emphasis of our previous Tonci Tadic parliamentary representative and who has helped us a lot and which has also helped us to tell honestly in the county assemblies that we have had extraordinary thematic sessions. We have had thematic sessions, MOST has given all the counties of the Adriatic and none have accepted the declaratory support to give to the Parliament, to support this exclusive economic belt. And with the Minister's woods. We are aware that 500 and some people died of mines in Croatia, we are aware that these resources that go demining will now be reduced. However, I am to remove parafiscal imposes and demining Croatia. 55 units of local self-government still have areas mined, 55. 380 and a few square miles is under mines. Croatia is still after the war that ended, so for 25 years, there are still mined areas for 24 years, and these people who gave their pain just so many Croatian Mine Action Centres you have beheaded these people so much that they have to protest, strike and we have areas that are mined. Because you rejected them from the Department of the Interior, so people just don't know what they're going to do. Well, we witnessed that strike. However, when we talk about forests and this potential, we must tell our resource colleague Ivanković that the forests, water, energy, Krš – Padjane, JANAF, Slovenska 9 is your way of managing you. It's a way of managing. If this is a way of protecting national interests or what Bere, a colleague Bernardic drank out there, it may not be appropriate for someone I know to drink a glass of wine. I can't believe you didn't drink at least two or three of these days. I don't believe it, I doubt it, and you may have an excuse. But I can tell you that protecting national interests is the priority of the Croatian Parliament, and the Croatian Parliament decides at least. Only when we look at the INA, you've forgiven telecommunications operators in the fifth month of 50% of the frequency fee. You haven't cut people's accounts socially endangered. You did not give the DVBT2 receivers to our pensioners, and the largest profits are provided by telecommunications operators in Croatia. And so if we did, we could still talk for nine years. National interests are not protected by watching who drank the glass more or less Thank you very much. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24787	You've been off the subject for more than half the time, and I'm telling you a warning. Here is the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bulj injured Article 238. Bringing lies about what I said. It's not a problem, Mr. Vice President, when a man doesn't know, it's not a problem for a fellow Bull not to know. The problem is not to want to know or not to be able to find out. I've told Croatian fishermen here a hundred times, by declaring the IGP when he is to be. He'll have nothing to do with ZERP. And you could finally learn Bull. Because he shames himself so much when he says something he doesn't really know. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24789	You had a replica, a reminder to you. On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Minister Marija Vučković.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24790	I am most grateful to all MPs and MPs for their comments and comments, and I believe in the sincerity of good intentions when it comes to the need to preserve forest resources, eco systems and other topics that are not part of these amendments to the law. I will try to sum up the most important remarks that have been made here during the debate. First, I will repeat that 500 people are not employed in the Croatian forests as far as I know in January. In the last two years, some 8000 and 8150 people have been employed in the Croatian forests, and 300 people are regularly employed on fire protection and about 200 people on biological recovery and may vary during the month of such seasonal employment. The need for a new strategy is also outlined here, so I will say that the current strategy that was valid for the period 2017 to late 2020, as the title tells it, is finished, a strategy relating to the development of wood processing and furniture industry. We have started making a new strategy, and we expect the contribution of both scientific and professional and political public to, of course, upgrade the measures that have existed so far, improve what was not good and bring some new activities. We've been making fun of each other here, making fun of these amendments to the law. We called them subjugationally big reforms. It is not about major reforms, it is about the implementation of administrative and cost-delivery of the economy in line with the government's adopted decisions, and it is one of the hundreds of activities that we have taken this year. Here are claims that had nothing to do with the law on staying in the withdrawal of EU funds, so I will repeat that the programme managed by the Ministry of Agriculture's rural development programme was agreed at 88% today, paid 63%, and no fund was ever pre-accession, was structural two years before the payment deadline was 63%. Of course, we're not even at the beginning. Today we're the sixteenth, last week we were the eighteenth. We'll be even better, and we were at the beginning four years ago. It's all verifiable. As for the need to develop a new strategy in Croatia, so in the world Croatia belongs to those countries that advocate the adoption of a new EU strategy for forests in 2021. I understand the concern about demining, I share it, I hope that we will speed up this 30% of the funding from the compensation for the general services of the forest is compensateable, as we have honestly said, we need to make additional efforts, we are making additional efforts. As for the claim of non-intentional spending of these funds, intransparently they are quite incorrect, we have laid down amendments to the law that, in exceptional circumstances, funds intended for the law to compensate for general forest functions in exceptional circumstances such as the Covid-19 epidemic can be with, and this applies only to the neutral assets of previous years, to be spent to support the economy. So we formed a 53 million kuna program for small farmers who employ at least one, one person. Of these 53 million kunas, 30 were indeed from the previously collected KEFŠ funds, and 23 were from savings in the state budget. The comparison of the restoration of forests in Croatia and Finland is not appropriate because Croatia is proud of its tradition of the nature of the forest, it is a different kind of forest restoration than in Finland. In Finland, no such natural method is implemented which we are witnessing and which we admire and which Croatian tradition of 250 million kunas, the entire area is cut in Finland and then a species of forest is planted, and we are proud of our mixed forests and natural restoration. As for the needs of the new law here, we'll consider it. With regard to the proposals to increase the forest contribution in order to primarily help areas with specific natural constraints, I will remind you that the government in the 2011-2015 mandate and the parties that have announced such an increase in order to specifically help areas such as Gorski kotar, did not do so, we did so in 2018, it is enough for now because any such increase carries its negative side and it needs a balance, and for now it is positive for us precisely to this extent. Someone also mentioned 80 million kunas in the state budget, the state budget projections noticed that refer to the OKFŠ and claimed that the OKFŠ fell in half, not only are we correcting shortcomings in budget accounting that were also inherited. These 80 million kunas mean 160 million kunas, but as the KEFSH structure says, 30% refers to demining, 20% to the community of fire and 50% is no longer recorded in the positions of the Ministry of Agriculture. So these 80 million kunas are 160, only 80 others are recorded in the positions of ministries carrying the bodies of the state administration carrying the demining and fire department. Also, we're not and we're not going to cut hunting funds because this increase is intended exclusively for insurance policy except for a wildlife insurance policy since 2021, we're going to be providing crop savage damage for the first time. It was mentioned deficits, exports, we understand your remarks, this year despite the Covid-19 epidemic we have growth according to temporary estimates so we need to be careful, but they are usually temporary lower than final ones. Agricultural production growth of 4.75, productivity growth of 10% and export growth of agricultural and food, agricultural and food industries by 18% in the first 9 months. I thank everyone, all the farmers and processors who did this, and for our administration, I will say that at least she made a modest contribution. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24791	You stay with a few replicas, she's the right of an esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24792	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I failed to catch you at the very beginning to ask you this question. This parafiscal fee refers to the promotion and preservation of the most endangered forest areas. I will return to the local and I think that the park forest Marian at this point in Split as the lungs of the city of Split are just that most endangered forest area. You are also familiar with the situation related to the sub-podnik and the Croatian Forest Institute and 3,000 trees that were either dried or infected, you know the problem of ownership of the park of Marijan, Croatian forests, Split-Dalmatia County and the city of Split and the management itself. I am interested in this ad hoc attitude of the ministry towards itself, towards the park Marijan, and the course of the process of your opinion regarding the restoration and reforestation tomorrow is a very important part of the city of Split. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24793	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24794	I thank you for your question, according to my information, the recovery is carried out according to the solution, and soon the creation of a real multi-annual forest-economic plan begins. Not actional but forest-economic long-term and complete.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24795	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sinisha Jankač.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24796	Dear Minister, here we have heard on several occasions that the reduction of this impose is cosmetics, so here if I have good information this is the only imposition that the Ministry of Agriculture has as a comprehensive imposition on our entrepreneurs and there is no other force to relieve this is a very good decision of the ministry and the only possible decision of the ministry to influence all entrepreneurs. I would ask you to also look back at the rural development measures measure 43 and measure 8 which can definitely be used and which can be compensated for part of these, this discharge and comment in any case that the state of the forest during the war, before the war and the state of the forest today is very different and the state of the forest is greatly improving and where the burden on the forest is reduced as it was, what a burden it was during the war and what a burden the forest is today [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24797	Answer. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24798	According to the data available to us, the annual memory of the forest is about five points two, three million cubics and an increase slightly more than nine, so I could not agree with the general claim that forests are not well managed. Our forests and according to international standards and passages, forest management undergo numerous audits, controls, is subject to scientific research not only in Croatia and the world, and according to the data we have in Croatia, it is well managed. I can't comment on individual cases, but if someone has knowledge of illegal or excessive cuttings, it's the State Inspectorate. But this Department of Agriculture will never ignore them. As for the rural development program, we said something about statistics. Forest measures are used perfectly. We will use them even more over the next period, so that is our obligation in view of the green plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24799	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24800	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. So this is about the legal amendment of six articles where you reduce a single imposition that we call parafiscal imposition. The fact is that it differs slightly from some other inputs from some other resistors for the simple reason that we know exactly what it is used for and how it is used. I hope after this threat of covida-19, it won't occur to us that we're playing with this parafiscal charge. But I'm interested in what I highlighted and in my debate, and now I'd like to hear your opinion. Is there any thought in the ministry that, that there is a possibility that this amount may still be reduced, that there is, therefore, one time period that brings it to another level? It's hard to expect, I'm a little too realistic to expect to be zero. But what kind of level do you think would be real and do you think in the long run that you're still reducing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24801	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24802	I appreciate the question. I will generally answer that in this ministry we are always thinking about whether we can reduce which untaxed giving if it is in our jurisdiction. At this point, however, I am not thinking specifically about the short term to further reduce the OCFŠ because it has its serious function. So when we can confirm that there is a possible reduction, we can specifically replace it with other measures or activities, then we can also think about it. These 33 million kunas can be easily compensated. And I stayed here, and I didn't answer exactly your first question, so I'm going to take this opportunity to say that the rule that will be the legal basis for establishing an open register of payment bonds in the design and that we hope it will be finished by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24803	The next replica is Honored Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24804	Ministers of parafiscal violence in this case for the woods I think it would be worth finding another option and means for, mainly, demining. That's where we need to find a chance, you in the government to find a chance because I think it's very dangerous. Security is very important. The second very important is the fire systems because you are, so security, since you are here, Marjan is mentioned. We have in Sinjo the lungs of the city,... which you draw and root from Sinj, on the mother's side more precisely from the Dryer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be good if in that direction at least something in Sinj, at least to get... That the pines don't burn, and the lungs are Sinya, to clean it up a little, an earthquake and to pick a little to burn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they do, if someone throws a chip, they'll burn down all our woods. Well, at least the workers of the Croatian Forests, we have people at the Bureau who would do it, and there are warms for people who are poor, so we can save those forests because there are no more goats, no more sheep, no more nothing, and at least that people here are seasonal earning something without saving the woods. Thank you very much. The lungs of the city of Sinja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24805	The Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24806	I'm going to look at the individual example as well as any one, and I'm also going to take the opportunity to point out that your sheep and goats are growing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24807	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24808	Thank you. Dear Minister, today, there have been a lot of words here about mines and demining, which is, of course, understandable, because since the end of the Homeland War 597 a person has been killed by mines of which 203 deaths and, of course, human life has no price and that we need to do everything to demine the rest of the mine as soon as possible. But it's important to point out that we had the demining going into three stages, so until 1996 it was done by military and police units. From 1996 to 1998. Mungos, and since '98. To this day, let's say private companies. So far, there are 298 square kilometers left, and of course we all hope to demine that part in due time, and primarily so that no one else gets hurt by mines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24809	The Minister's Honorable Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24810	I can only agree with you that this is one of Croatia's most important tasks, and the Ministry of Agriculture is just one of the stakeholders of the entire system. Everyone is trying to do the best they can, everyone is aware of how important it is and how fast it is, but here I will briefly say that only the project implemented by the Croatian forests is NATURA VITA for demining worth 370 million kuna, and 30% of the year-to-year fees paid in good times of OKFŠ is 60 million kuna. So, that's six years of the O.C.F.S.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24811	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24812	Madam Minister, of course you probably understand that the comparison with Finland went to the responsibility story. I guess you know that biodiversity in another climate is certainly some other kind of concern and therefore different masters of the forest, I certainly hope that our biodiversity will preserve that we will not be left with cramps, we rule as we master forests we see both naked eye and daily if you follow all of us on these facebook pages, citizens send photos to the Green Squad of how photos look not only from Babina up or from Petrova up but from the national park you yourself know that the inspectorate was recently there on Plitvice Lakes. But what I'm interested in and you've told us, and you've told us twice that the means of purpose can be redeployed and we understand that they can, but it's my question why the means of purpose are provided. From their own sources, therefore, they do not use for the work of biological forest restoration at all. [[Intruder: Time.]] if we know that from the initially planned almost 600 million kuna for... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24813	Replication response, responsible replica. Representative Boric, you speak half a minute more, I warned you three times. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24814	I will try to respond partly, therefore, to OkFŠ’s dedicated resources, which can only be accidentally spent, as the amendments to the law have established, can be partly re-scheduled in exceptional situations only to support farmers and only from funds that remained neutral from previous years, and I have made clear how much such funds were spent on the programme to help primary producers in plant and livestock production, which was paid mostly in May 2020. That's all. As far as biological restoration of the forest is concerned, this year has not been specific, nor has it been allowed to work with epidemiological recommendations with the intensity that was planned, and I cannot say that this is the only reason, but I can confirm that it is the greatest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24815	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Martina Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24816	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers said in your presentation that the government has since 2011-2015, I assume you were referring to the government of Zoran Milanović to increase the KEFŠ, and I have to deny you that no one has increased the OKFS except the Government, I have cited the chronology that they were all that reduced the KEFŠ of the HDZ Government, but I wanted to tell you that my exposure was based on leading people in forestry who are also against this amendment of the law. And as for the devasting of the forest I invite you to my Slavonia, perhaps then you get a better picture of what devastation of the forest means. So we have to run with the woods as something that's very valuable, but here you come to Slavonia, see then you'll get a better picture of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24817	Answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24818	I think I said the government wanted to increase the forest contribution, but if I said wrong, I apologize on that lapus that the government mentioned it and that it would be intended for areas with special limitations, and it was done in 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24819	The last replica, the esteemed representative of Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24820	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Minister, here's an honest question, without any political contrition. We know that there is damage to crops that can cause wild animals, damage from predators to the throats of cattle, primarily in Lika and Dalmatia, damage to traffic accidents caused by wild animals. I'm asking if there's a chance that the damages caused by such cases can be resolved by insurance policies? If such a possibility exists and if it is consummated, why plan additional funds in the budget to pay off such damages? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24821	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24822	So far, 25 million kuna has been planned in the budget over the past two years, which is the same position being financed by the wildlife insurance policy. This year, instead of 25 million kunas amounting to 60 million kunas, it is the largest part of the 70 and these additional 35 refer to the crop damage insurance policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24823	Thank you, Minister. We've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. And now I'm declaring by 5:00 a.m. the air break. It's 18.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24838	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 19,01 HOURS]] It is next: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on aquaculture, second reading, P.Z.E. No 25 The Proposer is the Government under Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172 in relation to Article 190. Rules of Procedure. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, respected Agriculture Minister Marija Vukkovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24839	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. At the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament held on 16 October 2020, a conclusion was reached which adopted the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aquaculture Act and sent the Croatian Parliament to the promoter of the observations, proposals and opinions in order to prepare a final proposal for the law. The Ministry of Agriculture took note of the comments, proposals and opinions received and developed the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aquaculture Act. The main objective of this law is to bring the Aquaculture Act in line with the changes to the EU rules that need to be taken over, which were created after the adoption of the Aquaculture Act. In relation to tuna farming, the law prescribes a new provision on the labelling of breeding installations to monitor traceability for tuna farming. Furthermore, the law lays down the grounds for the availability of tuna farming facilities available to the Republic of Croatia as well as the maximum input amount of catches of wild tuna which may be introduced into breeding sites in the area of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the higher number of tuna growers in the Republic of Croatia, this law lays down the basis for the adoption of the rules relating to the way and structure of the available facilities. The law also allows for more effective inspection of law enforcement in a way that, in addition to the fisheries inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture, the future inspection will be carried out by authorised inspectors of the Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance. As a newspaper, the law stipulates that all vessels used in aquaculture should be entered in the register of vessels in aquaculture. In relation to first reading, a new way of implementing the aid procedure is introduced and it is prescribed that the granting of support is decided by a solution or administrative procedure and can be submitted to the Ministry in the event that the users consider their right to be denied both by legal and sublegal acts, thus ensuring appropriate treatment in the part of the grant of support in aquaculture and enabling the legal protection of the parties in the proceedings and the initiation of the administrative dispute. The text of the draft law in the text of the final proposal of the Law on aquaculture included all the observations of the Legislatives Committee of the Croatian Parliament, which relate to Articles 6, 15 and 21 and are exclusively of nootechnic nature. In addition, amendments to Articles 3 and 9 of the Law relating to the more precise classification of landwater used in aquaculture have been made and amendments have been included in Article 4 relating to the more precise definition of the acts to be set out for the authorisation to carry out aquaculture on land where the land on which the aquaculture is carried out is privately owned. Following all of this today's debate, we have a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aquaculture Act, which will provide the necessary legal framework to further improve the competitiveness of aquaculture and its sustainability in the social and economic sense and, in particular, in the section relating to tuna farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24840	Stay Minister because we have several replicas, the first colleague is Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24841	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, my question is about the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. We know that in 2014 to 2020, we have some 252 million at our disposal and we know that the fund is just and intended to achieve a single common fisheries policy. As far as the past period is concerned, I wonder if you are satisfied with the use of the fund itself and how the ministry is preparing for this new programming period from 2021 to '27. In particular, regarding new funds that will be allocated to the fisheries sector right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24842	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24843	We have 252 million EUR from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, together with.../incomprehensible/... co-financing of the total value of the maritime and fisheries operational programme is EUR 348 million. As far as exploitation is concerned, it is now about a billion 950 million kunas, of which a little less than a billion has been paid. Whether or not we are satisfied or not that this fund is the only fund that has not been accredited, and it is accredited only in 2017 here I can remember it very well as then the competent State Secretary for Fisheries can say that today's use from somewhere 75% and payments at 36-37% are significant progress, and whether I am satisfied or not, we will speed up even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24844	Comrade Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24845	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers of Growth, which has been observed in the aquaculture sector from 2016 to 2019, is it now stopped because of the Covid pandemic and tell me whether the aquaculture sector has been assisted by encouraging measures such as agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24846	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24847	Thank you very much. In the last 3 years, Croatian aquaculture has seen growth from 2016 to 2019, as you have well noticed, growth has been significant, it has been around 17-18%, this year we do not have final data, growth is not safe at that level, but according to our provisional data, there has been no decline. As regards the Croatian Presidency's support programme, it was in this part that it was able to put forward very significant measures concerning changes to the maritime and fisheries operational programme which the European Commission initially refused. One such measure is compensation in aquaculture. There's a competition going on right now. There's going to be more. We believe that this is the measure that has helped Croatian stakeholders most significantly in the aquaculture sector, but in addition to this measure, we have increased the initial state support of small value in fisheries and aquaculture by 19 million kunas by 30 million kuna. Today, a total of 16 million kunas have been agreed, and 14 additional measures have been paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24848	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24849	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Aquaculture is an important economic branch, tuna is one of our most important export products, only 10 to 15% of domestic tuna ends up on the Croatian market or on the Croatian table, the rest is exported. I am interested in whether we can create assumptions about exporting value-added products, which would greatly help restore the island communities and, of course, further employment, while on the other hand ensuring greater consumption of domestic tuna in the domestic market, which is in view and this interest, which has somehow now prevailed in recent times both for domestic agricultural products and for domestic fish by our consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24850	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24851	Thank you very much for asking. Croatia's high value bluefin tuna is as you said in the most part and almost 100% exports. We cannot be satisfied with the level of fish consumption in general in Croatia, it is far below the European average. Our latest research suggests that something has increased, and how soon when they are finished and checked, we will inform the public. However, we are certainly below the EU average and further efforts need to be made. Some effects also give cooperation through an operational programme for maritime and fisheries, in particular measures 4.3 relating to the marketing of fish and aquaculture products.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24852	And fellow Bull, go ahead, it's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24853	Well, first of all, I am pleased that the government in which you have finally set out to declare an exclusive economic belt, I am sorry that you have refused these last years, and especially since MOST has proposed that we move towards the sovereign exercise of our Adriatic control, the part of the Adriatic that we have the sovereign right under international law. I would ask you, however, that in the Republic of Croatia we have capacities and spaces for aquaculture i.e. Fish farms like Ruda, which is the largest in Europe, happened to be a dump right now, wrote to you by people from that area where there were 40 jobs, 240 fish pools, now it's a dump. Are you familiar with this, have you done anything about the farm in Ruda, which is the largest in Europe at its capacity, and now it's destroyed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24854	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24855	To repeat here, it means briefly that an economically exclusive belt and a protected ecological fishing belt as regards fisheries and common fisheries policy have no difference in the part relating to fisheries, and Croatia has, in fact, protected Croatia's seas and those from the borders territorially declared protected and our progress, cooperation and protection, in particular through the form of a three-year agreement that will be extended in the part of the apple cauldron, and recognised at international level. As far as the farm is concerned, the freshwater pond of trout is concerned, so, Ruda, as far as I know, is recently legally in this Ministry of Agriculture, given that the conditions have been met with the privilege of carrying out aquaculture activities for this pond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24856	Thank you. Now we're going to hear from our esteemed colleague, Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24857	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24858	Just for a second, my colleague, Mr. Grmo's rule of law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24859	It's all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24860	The Honorable Minister is not exactly what you're repeating over and over again. It's a lie. So, by declaring an exclusive economic belt, we define an ecological maximum of extracts in our economic belt to the middle line, and thus we can limit the extraction that the Italians have done so far, given that their fishing fleet is much more equipped and faster than ours. So all the time, you and Mr. Bacic have been false.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24861	Comrade Grmoy, you get a reminder please sit down, this is a very incorrectly clean replica has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have neither listed any article nor anything. Here you go, fellow Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24862	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, the difference between the first and second readings in this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on aquaculture applies, among other things, to one legal protection and the position or decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which was in this regard and which you have now incorporated into this amendment and the addition of the law. In your opening statement you mentioned only in principle, I would like to hear exactly what the problem was and what you had to change to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24863	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24864	Thank you very much for the question, so in its judgment of 20 October in the section relating to the Agriculture Act, the Constitutional Court stressed that Article 15(3), which is a failure and this article that the decisions of the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development are not administrative acts. Otherwise I will mention and have written evidence, it is a provision in different aid laws in agricultural application since 2010, the constitutional judgment was filed in 2015, and for the part for which I have written evidence I can confirm at this time that I am always in favour of greater legal protection, that we should not fear it if decisions are in order and that we have made such changes to the Law on Agriculture long before this Constitutional Court verdict, and that law is also in, I think, a long time ago, several months ago now, when such constitutional action is already taken, when the Constitutional Court has already made such a decision we are changing and the Law on aquaculture although none of us has asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24865	Thank you very much. Here you go, Comrade Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24866	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected ministers have a significant issue in aquaculture are diseases for organisms in breeding. On the market, Croatia has registered a limited number of medicines for use in aquaculture which can generate... the cause of the disease to the available medicines. [[You don't understand.]] By importing a younger fish for breeding purposes due to the risk of devasting diseases, has epidemiological zoning been carried out in terms of geographical areas that are dangerous? That's the first question. And two. In addition, the main problem in daily aquaculture is regulation of activities from the basic use of resources. So I'm wondering if a proper legal-administrative framework has been established, and how is it different from the former if it's ever been established?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24867	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24868	I have to admit, I didn't get these questions right. I just didn't hear them right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24869	Okay. You don't have any comment? Nothing. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then let's move on. We're moving on to the committee's reporters, do they want to take a word for it? If not, then we'll go to the hearing. The first is a respected colleague, Marijana Petir, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24870	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, MPs and MPs. We are prone to any changes and additions to legal solutions under increased criticism. However, what needs to be highlighted about these changes and additions is the fact that they are, among other things, the result of the growth of tuna growers in the Republic of Croatia, which is causally and consequently related to the need to introduce specific resource management measures, as well as economic activities that need to be in line with the European legal framework and commitments undertaken. This proposal for a law regulates the implementation of the European Union's common fisheries policy in the section relating to the college and the establishment of a system of compliance, as well as the collection and use of data in the fisheries sector, as well as data on aquaculture vessels. These are the rules to be adapted, not only because of normative coordination, but also with the aim of protecting and preserving the fish fund, further planning of fisheries management as an economic activity, but also to preserve the biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea. The maximum amount of tuna that can be grown in the Republic of Croatia is 7 thousand 880 tonnes per year, and the maximum amount of tuna caught wild tuna that can be entered into the breeding site in the Republic of Croatia is 2 thousand 947 tonnes per year. We produce 3 thousand 200 tonnes of tuna every year and there is an important area to increase, and additional potential can also be recognised in the development of other tuna farming segments, which can affect the modernisation of the fishing fleet, the construction of ports and ports, and economic growth and the employment of the local population. Although fish consumption has increased in the last 2 years, it is still low in Croatia. It carries 18.4 kilograms per kilogram per capita per year. The demand for locally produced agricultural and food products has increased during the pandemic, as well as the demand for fish and other seafood. In order to ensure that customers buy Croatian product, it is important to correctly and visible labelling of products as well as their traceability, and common fisheries policy as key elements set common market standards, information for consumers and producer organisations. While the COVID crisis has, on the one hand, affected the greater demand for domestic products, the sector still suffers the consequences and, therefore, through a series of fisheries measures related to support during the COVID crisis, 200 million kunas have been paid out of which 40 million kunas are from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. In cooperation with the European Commission, the Ministry of Agriculture has programmed measures to assist fishermen and processors, finance and temporary termination of fishing activities, 30 million kuna has been provided for support of small value. These days, the Council of the European Union also reached an informal agreement with the European Parliament on how to use the 6.1 billion-euro budget from the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund for the 2021 programming period. - 2027. It is a visible focus on financing safe, sustainable, innovative fisheries and fisheries that are capable of responding to crisis situations as well as on financing investments that improve safety, energy efficiency and the quality of catches on European Union fishing vessels. For example, the fund can be used to finance the replacement or modernisation of the engine of fishing vessels to increase energy efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions. It will also enable the promotion of generation renewal in the profession by supporting the right to acquire vessels by young fishermen. In order to contribute to food safety in the European Union and to reduce dependence on imports of fish products from third countries, negotiators have also confirmed the need to further support domestic aquaculture by encouraging investment in the sector and promoting the quality and added value of such products. All of this should also be accompanied by simplifying the process of using the funds, but also by the main background of all new European policies, by a greater focus on the results we want to achieve. This will be a good wind in the back and our Croatian fishermen, and by further adapting our normative framework between us and the proposal for an act that we are talking about today will ensure a better preparation for the use of funds. These resources should also be observed through the impact it will have on the development of aquaculture in the Adriatic through the impact on the island communities, but also in a much wider context of protecting our pearl of the Adriatic Sea. The protection of the Adriatic Sea is also contained in the 2003 decision that Croatia declared its protected ecological and fisheries belt containing all the essential elements of the exclusive economic belt at a time when it was not yet a Member State of the European Union. By joining Croatia in the full membership of the European Union, our ZERP has become part of the common waters of the European Union and the Member States, above all, fishermen from our neighbouring countries in Italy were able to fish in accordance with the rules of the common fisheries policy of the European Union, with the supervision of our Croatian fishing inspection. Therefore, fishing in the ZERP is carried out exclusively in accordance with the common fisheries policy of the European Union. The fishing vessels of the European Union shall have equal access to these waters and shall not be prohibited from accessing them, nor shall they be charged, and the right to monitor and control the implementation of those rules shall be granted by all Croatian inspectors who, as inspectors of the European Union, can now control all fishermen, including fishermen of other Member States, in the ZERP. In the spirit of good neighbourly relations and European spirit, Croatia will also declare other components of the exclusive economic belt that are not contained in the protected eco-fishing belt, thereby further strengthening its focus towards the ecological protection of the Adriatic and our fish fund. I would mention another unrecognized fact that is related to aquaculture and fisheries in general, and it is a blue economy that is highly infiltrated in other economic activities. This is about the use of fish waste for the production of food for animals, gelatine, various dietary supplements such as OMEGA3 and OMEGA6 essential fatty acids, hydrolyzed collagen, some cosmetic products and also clothing items. In addition to this, fish waste can also be used to produce biogas, and thus we have an indirect impact on the impact of CO2 emissions on the environment. It is also known that today every other fish for consumption comes from aquaculture, so if we observe how much sustainable aquaculture and fish farming systems can reduce the pressure on fish stocks, we realize that by encouraging this type of production and its sustainable management we provide additional support for the conservation and protection of ecosystems in which they live. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to say that we will support this proposed law and that we look forward to every promotion we see in the aquaculture sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24871	Thank you, too. Before my colleagues, I'm just asking that we wipe out the pay phone. And my colleague Bulj will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24872	Thank you very much. The people must know that the long-standing struggle is worth it as far as our exclusive economic belt is concerned and that finally this law that we are talking about will have more importance, especially in that we will, according to government announcements, i.e. According to the announcements, according to the proposal, to declare an exclusive economic belt. Although a few days ago when Mr. Bacic told our colleague the president of the Council Club then the minister in the government said he heard it for the first time. The same day was a statement, so there was a little noise in communication. But mainly the declaration of an exclusive economic belt is the victory of the Croatian people. So, it's not the same exclusive ZERP economic belt as you've been claiming for years, because it was a bridge priority and when we were in negotiations about the government then we can verify that it was the first priority of an exclusive economic belt. In all the counties precisely because of our fish fund, due to the expansion of the sovereign right to the international one on our Adriatic is 24,000 square miles. That's the difference that we have right, and what the inspector, the inspectorate is doing and what it's going to do is the coast. It is also the obligation of the Croatian Coast Guard. But when I speak to the Croatian Coast Guard, which of course we must strengthen and control it in other ways than drones and all because it is our potential. Our potential is huge, our Adriatic, our sea, and we must protect it. We've never done that before. So far we have not done this and all of your attempts, I am proud to have asked the County of Split-Dalmatia County for this proposal as well, which I have suggested, you did not vote here for an exclusive economic belt. I even suggested in the county. The bridge is in all counties of Dalmatian i.e. We asked the county for support, declaratory support. No county has accepted it, none to declare itself an exclusive economic belt. Tonči Tadic was then the promoter when he spoke our predecessor went with me to the sessions from Zagreb to Sinj. He had everything, we had a presentation that he supported us, and really those people who suggested it at the time were not accepted. But then there were circumstances that it was better to be with the Italians than to protect the national interest. So next week's announcement I'll be the first to clap when it does, the first to clap because it's a five-year victory in this House and years before I was at other levels I was talking about declaring exclusive, supporting that idea. And I'm glad that you finally got here that my colleague Bačić and HDZ have changed and coalition partners here before me and Mrs Mariana Petir a few days ago told the media that an exclusive economic belt should not be declared, that the Italians would declare it, that it was the same as ZERP, that it was the same story. So thank you and Mariana Petir for voting in favour of the exclusive economic belt. I really thank you after many years of political work you are also going to give support to us, our idea to protect this is our right. It's not a question of when the Italians will declare it. It's not a question of the exclusive economic belt that we have to... from the Italians whether they will give us a hand to be our not knowing the Secretary of the Council of Europe or that they will be in the European Commission, your colleague from the European Parliament. [[You don't understand.]] This is an over-the-counter question, and that's why I'm happy about the Croatian people. Although I am glad that Branko Bacic, who has great experience, has changed his mind. I'm really glad that he changed his mind and I'm glad that Ante Sanader gave me two notices just before, for no reason at all, just to get me to ban me from speaking, here to draw me even though in the next point of Article 242 what was in the previous point shouldn't be valid in the new point. But for Mira Bulja, that rule is not valid and regularly gets warnings. As far as aquaculture itself is concerned, Croatian citizens eat a lot of import fish that we import, while as the Mediterranean State the most uses the European Union uses about 25 kilograms per capita according to European research. The most useful means Portugal 55 kilograms more, Spain 46 kilograms, and according to our Croatian statistics, Croatia per capita of about 8.9 kilograms and our potential developmental potential, I have met a beautiful family in Tribunj... A large family that deals with fishing is a truly valuable family. [[You don't understand.]] They have a number of problems where Italians are allowed to fish, they're not fishing fleets, so we have these problems. But with the exclusive economic belt here is God's thanks and glory that next week, and I hope we accept that and I'm glad once again that both colleague Bačić and colleague Petir, and Boric and all those who have claimed that the exclusive economic belt is nothing, that nothing is worth it, that it is insignificant yet we finally have this opportunity to declare the exclusive economic belt. And I'm glad that... Injuring the Rules of Procedure and defending an exclusive economic belt. [[You don't understand.]] I finally listen to those nice words. I know that you will now say that it is necessary, that the Italians have declared it, but for 5 years someone will have it, no one will be responsible for the damage done to Croatian citizens in order to court European and Brussels officials. ... when arrested, located, transferred by Croatian generals we worked with the Croatian Adriatic and Croatian territory. [[You don't understand.]] And once again, I'd say that the fish farm is the largest in Europe when we talk about the trout we have in the area of the island. Cetin end of the Ruda 240 pools. It's a river of Ruda i.e. River Cetina stream, 240 swimming pools. It just happened in three sentences to stop what happened. Privatization, debts, bankruptcy. There were 40 families in the area. 800 tonnes was the capacity of that farm, and I think they have some shifts, and my agent's question was that the minister said she answered me, so I'm going to check that a license has been granted to use the farm so it won't be a dump anymore. Because it's a shame that we have the largest pool in the area as far as river fish is concerned, that means trout that Croatian citizens should eat, and self-sufficiency is also very important. We have seen in this crown crisis that self-sufficiency is very important. Enough GMO products. A lot more means glyphosate treated product. We import too much, 3 and a half billion euros. We have good export capacities, as is the case with the tuna we mostly export. And I hope that the farm, that will find an investor for the Ruda aquaculture site, will have that potential to employ 40 people. But that's significant. It is the municipality of Otok, Sinjski, Dalmatian near Sinj. That Ruda has a very nice landscape. There's also the hydrocenter. We know you're Setinian... It also gives a huge amount of hydropower. [[You don't understand.]] 40% of the Republic of Croatia's hydropower. But that these capacities we have must be activated immediately. We must promote that it is important to consume fish domestic fish, not frozen import lobbys to obtain funds, i.e. To destroy our fishermen. And one of the prouder days in this House will be when we vote here on an exclusive economic belt. I can tell my colleagues to Branko Bačić I'll clap on that when we declare the exclusive economic belt. Finally, the Croatian people won. I'm glad you finally accepted that proposal. But I am sorry that we were waiting for the Italians to declare it and that we under the pressure of others, it is an interest to the Italians down to Africa, but irrelevantly, at the moment that we will declare it an exclusive economic belt and colleague Boric, and colleague Petir, and colleague of course President of the Croatian Parliament Jandrokovic that he will also vote for an exclusive economic belt. I'm sorry we didn't do that when we voted here in the last term on two occasions. And now we have a proposal for the Bridge because it is very important and it is the sovereign right of the Croatian people on the Adriatic and that is what we had to protect before. But here I am going to be happy right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24873	I thank you, as my colleague, Grmoy, would say to the most respected representative of Bull. We have now, now let's go with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Petyr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24874	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Bulj hurt Article 238 because he doesn't know how to behave in the assembly. He brings lies and slanders. I've always stood up for an exclusive economic belt. In fact, at a time when colleague Miro Bulj did not exist politically or existed. So he deliberately twists my words, and he's not preparing for a single debate, but he repeats one thing and it's like he ate a broken record and we have to put up with it here. He's been terrorizing us every day. So he told a lie, slandering. I've always stood up and advocated an exclusive economic belt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24875	Thank you. Thank you, fellow Petyr. Thank you very much. This does not fall under the rules of procedure. So you legitimately had the right to state your position which was more a replica than a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I'm giving you a warning, and the fact is that a lot of what's said is either incorrect, or false, but that doesn't fall under the breach of the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately. That's what our citizens decide. Dear Boric, you are also for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24876	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Article 238 of the Reverend IGP, Today Miro Bulj has misjudged us all again, and has tried to offend us, of course slandering etc. And it is our duty to warn the citizens. Why? Because he claims that he, as chairman of the Local Committee Suhač, knew everything about the IGP 10 years ago and that he was already on that local committee with his political career to declare it, but that no one had heard him up to here these days when the HDZ would solve it without him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24877	A fellow Boric and you also have a reminder. You know very well. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24878	So my colleague Petir hurt Article 238. My colleague Bulj and I were personally part of the "The Sea Is Land" initiative in 2011 was that 10. He knows Bačić when he was against, when he pushed with Jadranka Kosor... and the rest, then Miro Bulj and I fought for the economic belt. So, although we were not political and we fought here in the Croatian Parliament and thank you for changing your mind and for supporting the exclusive economic belt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24879	Comrade Grmo, thank you. Thank you very much. You're getting a second warning, too. He's got a colleague, Bull, second warning. My colleague Bačić has two warnings. Be careful because the next intervention will cost you the right to speak. ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have two. ... Come on, please, we're not going to argue about this right now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Everyone interprets the truth in their own way, and the election results show what the people think about it. Let's move on now. Now it's an honorary colleague of the Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go, Club Center and Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24880	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected Minister Vukkovic and his associate. It is before us in the second reading of the amendment and addition of the Aquaculture Act. Let me say a few things first. First we are also in first reading, we think Club Center and Voice supported this law and we will support it in second reading as we always support good proposals and what makes progress. But let me say a few more sentences. I love it when Minister Vukkovic is in Parliament and she explains her laws, which she usually does. She used to act as secretary of state, now as minister. You know I'm an opposition representative. You know I didn't support this government, but I absolutely appreciate every one of those ministers who comes in here and speaks metrically about things. When you ask Minister Vuchkovic, you never get a twist. You're getting a concrete answer to your question. The more she uses you the more opportunities she hasn't answered, the more she does to check your answers. And it shows me, in fact, that it always shows me how some of the ministers should do their jobs, so let me, as one opposition representative, praise the work of Minister Vukkovic. I won't agree with any strategies. I won't agree with any ideas. I won't agree with any solutions, but we're entering content, but the form and the way it works is absolutely commendable. And I'll be back on the subject. Why did these amendments and the additions of the law go? They went because of the theme of tuna farming, due to the amount of wild tuna caught, for inspection control, for the regulation of support. And I'm going to talk to this subject, and I'm going to start with the aspect of environmental protection, or spatial planning, and end up in the economy. So Croatia is one of the few European Union countries that has its continuity of sea planning. Unlike other countries that planned to develop land, we also planned for the development of the sea. The Adriatic Sea is one of the Mediterranean seas and it is the coldest in that sense and I do not repeat and never like to repeat what it says. We can read that, and the proposer always says that. So, when it comes to tunas, we have some other conditions and ways than other countries that are in the Mediterranean, we that have the Adriatic Sea. We plan in the Adriatic Sea, among other things, to plan a location for aquaculture, and there we must be extremely sensitive. So it's about a bay that's not compared to the sea it's not too much... And we need to be sensitive and smart about it. [[You don't understand.]] About a decade ago, 15 years ago, when the changes to the county plans began, it was indeed in the county plans and later municipal options emerged. They used to show up, therefore, areas for tuna farming that were usually 300 meters from the coastal line, so they were either nearby beaches, or some kind of tourist zone. So we must carefully plan that one bad plan would not endanger any other content that is important to us. The Adriatic sea that is in this sense our economic resource, but if we don't protect it and take care of it, no one will. Of course, it is very sensitive for tuna farming, so it is a very sensitive issue and it is a question of environmental impact assessment. The first environmental impact assessments that were really very, very strict with strong measures, with measures that had to follow what was happening because of the tuna farming and even such fish, they at the bottom of the sea, of course, in terms of when the feeding process leaves an awful lot of impurity. Because we need to know that one square metre of posidonia, so these are seaweeds that are at the bottom about 14 liters of oxygen, and you have no way of being where the cages are and where the growing is. And of course, after experience that some other countries have had and we can really say that what I have knowledge has no bad experience in the sense that we have more lasting consequences for the environment. Of course, the consequence is that there is no more of it, but it really has to be taken care of. And I'm coming up with that third economy. If you want to develop an economy, you have to put all this into balance. You must put a spatial planning of this, the Adriatic Sea is a small sea to repeat where you must also have ports of nautical tourism and tourist zones and a space for the development of settlements and beaches and arranged beaches and unsettled beaches you must have some sort of economic activity. You need to take care of environmental protection to actually develop the economy. For the simple reason, one of Croatia's best and most successful export products is tuna. It would be good if we had more tuna on the domestic market, so it's good for us. But that'll come over time. Of course, at the time of this time, so the time in the crown we touch every debate whether the changes to the law were due to any links to the crown or not, we definitely have to touch and touch, it turns out that you have to have some stable branches, branches that you can still have at the time of the crown. So, tuna farming is something that exists and tradition in these areas that I don't say, or I remember from my childhood in Bakarac when it went to sea, so today it's part of the Adriatic, then I was always surprised, so it was those tunas from which they looked at the tunas that came and people hunted them. So it's on one side of tradition, on the other hand, we've now made an amendment to the law to make it easier and to control it. What is important, it is important to put clear conditions, clear criteria, to enable a good relationship between everything, therefore, and spatial planning and from the aspect of environmental protection, but the possibility of development and the economy. Tuna is something that makes it possible to develop the economy, so of course tuna production thinks so. This should be encouraged, this should be made possible and this amendment and the addition of the law goes in that sense. And to conclude, we will also support this amendment and the addition of the law. Let me just have one more thought. I deliberately asked the Minister about the Constitutional Court's decision, and she's fine. When you get one decision in the vault that is related to another regulation, it is good when you change and some regulation where that decision does not involve taking care of it for a simple reason. It is not good to make regulations and it is not good to have regulations that we then have constitutional court decisions that are against certain things, so that they are not in accordance with the Constitution. It's a more difficult category against the constitution. I prefer to say that they are not in accordance with the Constitution, that is, through this decision was a matter of legal protection, and it is a good thing that this regulation was done, bearing in mind that this decision was made in October of this year. Here we have in December in the second reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24881	Thank you. Please just, have you cleaned up the pay phone before? Yes, it is. Then before I give my colleagues a word to Dretar on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, just information that the Croatian handball female team has won 25:20 and is close to the semifinals. Hello to our girls, hold on! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24882	I'll have to give you a warning, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, because you took the word out of my mouth. Well done and there's really congratulations to our great girls. Well, hello, everyone, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The subject of these amendments and the addition of the Aquaculture Act is primarily to align with European fisheries policy and to set national objectives for the development of aquaculture and to regulate the way and conditions of carrying out activities. It is also important to mention new provisions that will help both in the control and control of aquaculture farming in business units. There are only a few sentences about the general state, because we know for a fact that the seas are extremely sensitive to various types of environmental threats. The sea is a large, living organism, so of course the fish that live in them, and that at some point turns into the economic potential of each country. According to some studies, the level of exploitation of the Adriatic Sea from year to year has increased as well as the adverse effects of climate change. The decline in biomass of the most economically important species followed by the fall in catches and the reduction in the size of mature individuals has led to the need for organized and controlled breeding of first brand, ora, and mussels and pebbles in recent times and bluefin tuna. So, up to the development of marine aquaculture. Another small problem is that the fish markets in Croatia on our coast have never come to life. We currently have two, one in Poreč, one in Tribunj and the current way of getting fish for the HoREC sector sometimes looks a little like action films. We've heard all the stories of restaurant owners sending speedboats to the high seas where they intercept fishing boats and on the spot buy selected goods at already agreed prices. The fish market would make it clear to all our fishermen to sell their catch at potentially best prices, with a fair competition for all those interested in this fish. I have to stop here for a moment and thank the respected Ms. Vukovic for the quick and correct answer to our representative, Ruzica Vukovic. Unfortunately, the sales model through the stock market proved unsuccessful on the Croatian side of the Adriatic for specific reasons. These are the length and divorce of our coast, which then takes place in the transport to fish markets, affecting both the quality and freshness of the fish, and, of course, the will of fishermen to place their fish on the market. So this way we invite them and all those in aquaculture as well as professional fishermen to engage more actively in the regulation of the fish market through the stock market because it is clear to everyone in their interest. As for our bluefin tuna, the number of tuna growers in Croatia is gradually increasing, increasing parallelly, and quotas for tuna catches for breeding purposes. So these amendments to the law and the adoption of a regulation that will prescribe the management of these capacities of the initiatives we welcome. Understandably, the number of tuna cages is growing, the amount of tuna caught and the tuna sold, which should be fed in some way. That is why we believe that quality monitoring and fishing for small blue fish is the most common food in aquaculture. The multiannual recovery plan for Bluefin tuna is also contained in the EU Regulation. The plan is in effect until 2020. Croatia is tasked with delivering a fishing plan and a management plan for fishing facilities in a reasonable sense to ensure the balance of fishing and the stability of biomass in the Adriatic. Currently, for those who may be interested in this information, the minimum size of wild tuna of 8 kilograms or 75 centimetres in the Adriatic Sea is prescribed for breeding purposes. The supervision of all segments of aquaculture has been allocated to inspectors of the State Inspectorate, so there are both veterinary and sanitary, agricultural and environmental protection inspectors, as we consider appropriate control methods. Penalties are also prescribed for the pursuit of aquaculture activities without authorisation, for the illicit or excessive collection of wild fish species primarily of tuna. Penalties are also there to prevent inspection findings, tuna trade without the prescribed documentation, and a whole series of potential infringements, and we consider the amounts to be adequate and balanced. From the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, the proposed amendments and additions to the Act on aquaculture assesses positive ones, and we will support them in further parliamentary procedure. Let us not forget even the workers for a moment of freshwater aquaculture. Here are the already mentioned trout ponds, but also large freshwater ponds, primarily of course carp and catfish. We often read that, especially in summer months, fish are killed mostly because of rising summer temperatures. Summer temperatures, of course high, heat up water, reduce oxygen, allow the growth of plants that, of course, leads to the sea of fish. And these freshwater aquacultural workers should be adequately protected, compensated according to the procedure of the damage suffered. Sustainable food production is a strategic definition of each country, and we will always welcome the legislative changes leading to improving working conditions, and thus increasing production in aquaculture and professional fisheries. Here is final with the rational management of natural resources and investments in the modernisation of fishing fleets and techniques, and, of course, the preservation of our beautiful Adriatic and its submarine, I sincerely hope that better days will come for Croatian fishermen and workers in aquaculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24883	Thank you. We're now going to the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague of Martin Grman Kizivat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24884	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on aquaculture, which is the main objective of harmonising the laws with the amendments made to the EU rules relating to the maximum capacity of tuna farming and the maximum input amount of wild tuna caught that may be entered into the breeding sites, enabling traceability at tuna breeding sites, and introducing a register of vessels. The farming of tuna is of paramount importance for Croatian fisheries because of the high value of production, but also the fact that small blue fish, which serves as food for tuna, and other sectors, are engaged in this activity. The tuna hunt is strictly limited. In practice, each sample caught must be recorded. Such a protection regime does not have any other fish and probably no other land animals. In Croatia, a catch of 952.53 tonnes of tuna was granted this year. The fishing could have been carried out by 18 ships from the Zadar area this year. The question is whether everyone in the EU respects the rules adopted, as media reports on illegal tuna capture tell us that the illegal market is booming. Because of the illegal trade in bluefin tuna, we are looking for stricter control of tuna harvesting. Today is an opportunity to talk in general about aquaculture defined by EU Regulation No 1380/2013. Aquaculture is a strategic branch of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, and is such an integral part of other development strategies. Aquaculture is an activity dealing with the cultivation of aquatic organisms including fish, molluscs, crabs and seaweed. The breeding process involves a certain form of intervention, such as artificial nests, food, protection from predators, etc. According to data from around the world, 567 species of marine and freshwater organisms are grown. Due to the growing need for nutrients from marine and freshwater organisms, and the limit of wild sources of the same aquaculture is one of the fastest growing food production activities in the last few years with an average annual growth rate of 6-8% per year. At global level, aquaculture today accounts for half the world’s supply of aquatic organisms for human consumption. Croatia has a long tradition of growing aquatic organisms. Organized stone growing in Maloston Bay was recorded in the 16th century, and Croatia pioneered in branding and crafting in the Mediterranean. The first caged tuna farming in the Mediterranean was launched on the Adriatic. We are still one of the leading countries in the cultivation of this species. Brancin, tuna growers, mussels are today the most significant breeds in Croatia's aquaculture that develop intensively and record a constant increase in productivity and employment. I also have to point out another fact that aquaculture can have a significant impact on the environment. An increased mission of organic substances that are a source of waste from farmed organisms, as well as uneaten food, drug emissions and other substances used in breeding, escape and potentially invasive species from breeding sites, as well as the possibility of transmission of diseases of the organism from breeding to wild populations and vice versa may have a negative impact on the surrounding eco-systems. The precondition for sustainable development of aquaculture is co-ordinated spatial planning and zoning of river basins and marine areas, as well as ensuring the necessary locations for breeding and accompanying infrastructure. Sustainable aquaculture relies on scientific research and the application of these research results in practice and in order to improve breeding technologies that will reduce the negative impact on the environment. Development of food management, regulation of the amount of use by food management development, regulation of the amount of use of medicinal products, and modernisation and reconstruction of existing infrastructure can achieve an economic, social and ecological sustainable aquaculture. Today at the time of the pandemic, we are all aware that domestic food is the greatest wealth of a country, and this is exactly the sector that produces food, and it employs a large number of people and is mainly related to our rural and island areas. This is why fishing and aquaculture is of particular importance not only as an economic branch but also because of its tradition and cultural characteristics. 4039 vessels are registered in the register of the fishing fleet of the Republic of Croatia, while fishing vessels account for about 14% of the fishing fleet of the Republic of Croatia. He directly employs 1,400 people. There are about 3300 people working in the fish processing industry. Total production in aquaculture accounts for more than 17000 tonnes of 100m euros annually, with whitefish farming covering almost 70% of the total value of production in aquaculture. Fishing has always had the social impact of the island and coastal population, and now it has come down to three, four large companies with corporate governance that conduct fisheries and aquaculture policy towards themselves, completely neglecting the interest of coastal and islanders, fishermen, and the wider state and social interest. It's also a question of popular fish. We are witnessing that the wholesaler system is not functioning at a satisfactory level. There have been many problems for over two decades, and we have also been monitoring the establishment of a system of wholesalers. The issue of the functioning of fish markets must be of interest to both fishermen and all producers in the area of aquaculture. First of all, how much funds are invested in the production and equipment of each wholesaler, how many wholesalers are still working and whether some are liquidated and for what reasons. The European Commission insists that 40% of the incentive funds are invested directly in aquaculture, as we are aware of the fact that the catch cannot compensate for the growing need for food from the sea of the EU population which imports large quantities of fish. And where are Croatian citizens in fish consumption? The high price of fish and the lack of cheap fish in markets, for example, heartburn as well as low awareness of the importance of fish consumption results in the fact that a Croatian citizen eats 8 to 9 kg of fish annually, while the European average is 25 kg per capita per year. And that the Ministers, yesterday on the board, did not know or did not want to say this defeating fact, but Croatians eat 8 to 9 kg of fish per capita in 2019 according to the State Statistics Office. For example, in 2015, the average was 18.4 kg of fish per capita. Consummation has been halved and it is certainly not that the Croats stopped eating fish because they no longer love it, but it is too expensive for them. Shame! We've got sea, we've got fish, and we can't afford fish. Yes, that's what your government has managed to do on this matter. We used to consume more freshwater fish in continental Croatia, including fish from the ponds. When we talk about aquaculture, the question is what about growing freshwater fish in ponds across continental Croatia. Before the Homeland War, Croatia was the feather of freshwater fishing. With prewar 18000 tons of freshwater fish production has fallen by 6 times. It is a shame that the strategic definition should be the production of 5000 tonnes for 2020 for the cultivation of hot water, freshwater species. It should be noted that a large quantity of products in warfare were used to feed freshwater fish, so the family farms had a safe placement and knew in advance how much to produce. In view of the European Green Plan and the promotion of shorter supply chains, it is necessary to launch activities related to strengthening the freshwater economy that will encourage the development of other accompanying activities. So Minister, don't lock yourself up in your office in Vukovar, get on the ground. Talk to fishermen, talk to fish producers and in continental Croatia. Ask them how much their problems are, make a strategy, action plans as well as an encouraging legislative framework for the production of not only bluefin tuna that the Japanese will mostly eat, because we cannot afford it because of the high price of 160 kuna per kilogram, and sometimes up to 250 kuna. But that is why fish farming should be encouraged by both sea and freshwater which Croatian citizens will be able to afford at least twice a week. Before, every major village in Croatia had its own agricultural cooperative, where agronomists, economists helped farmers in the production and placement of goods. Encourage the organization of producers in aquaculture as well as cooperation with scientific research institutions. The next time you come to the Croatian Parliament, don't let the amendments to your laws dictate only EU provisions. I guess in Croatia we have our own brains to help fishermen and aquaculture producers in the Adriatic and continental Croatia. Do not change the law and just to add another type of inspection, so it will now monitor the implementation of the Aquaculture Act in accordance with Article 30. The law of senior fishing inspectors, authorised civil servants of the Ministry of Finance, Customs Administration in transport and placing on the market fishery, veterinary, sanitary, agricultural and environmental protection inspectors of the State Inspectorate in accordance with specific regulations. You won't know what the inspector is responsible for. I believe you're not 100% sure which inspector has any responsibilities. We have countless examples in Croatia. The SDP will support compliance with EU directives, but it grieves us that you only come to the Assembly when you propose populist measures or compliance with EU directives. Consider whether a better law on aquaculture would be a more useful solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24885	We're going to an individual debate now. Dear fellow Bull has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24886	This is when we implement this EU directive and the desert regulation will not solve all the problems of Croatian aquaculture producers, we are talking about fish production than I hope that more domestic fish will be consumed in Croatia, more freshwater fish produced in our continental part and also sea fish because we are at the bottom of the EU, regardless of what we have a beautiful sea, rivers, aquaculture sites that are decomposed here. I mentioned a farm in Ruda. I hope this work permit will find someone to run that production in 240 swimming pools in the largest trout farm in Europe that is in the tributary of the Cetina River in Ruda, in the village of Ruda. I hope that as soon as we see this finally produced, 40 employees, and I think the biggest problem is that Croatians consume very little fish. Is it because of the price, is it because of something else but 8 to 9 kilos compared to the EU average of 25 and a half kilograms, and Spain, Portugal 55 kilograms, slightly less Spain and other Mediterranean countries are four, five times more consumed per capita than Croatia. I hope that this great possibility of economic and development and the production of healthy, domestic food in this corona crisis will reveal the lack of enough, and will in particular stress once again and individually that I am glad that next week, both colleagues Bačić and colleagues Boris and counterpart Petir will vote together exclusively on the economic belt. The proposal that was on several occasions here that you declared at the time that it wasn't, simply that it was stupid, that ZERP was an exclusive economic belt. It is, of course, a lie and it is good for the Croatian people, for the sovereign right of the Croatian people on an exclusive economic belt. But let me just say one more time what happened. So the key, in the negotiations, was an exclusive economic belt, you have to check it very well, but then the government of Andrej Plenkovic on page 21 explained why it did not exclude the economic belt. I was even on an open air show, on the same side was me and Tonci “Open”, Tonci Tadic and I, and the opposite was Vladimir Seks, who explained the entire show that it was not possible to declare it because of the arrest, location, transfer of the generals exclusively economic belt. But when my colleague Boris said you were the chairman of the local committee, that I was the chairman of the local committee but I was one of the co-ordinators of the sea - mainland. There he was, as I recall, Nicole Grmoy, here among us colleagues, Zeljko Sacic, were in the initiative. You remember that initiative. So it's not that initiative since yesterday's announcement of an exclusive economic belt. In all the counties of the Adriatic by the sea we have made a proposal and a conclusion. Which is why you did not support it does not matter, but this is a good thing that we uniquely vote the declaration of an exclusive economic belt and that the final sovereignty of the Croatian people at their sea. It's our right, international law. We and the Council of Europe were invited in 2013 to declare an exclusive economic belt. Well, it doesn't suck if ZERP didn't, too, then we wouldn't be declaring the exclusive economic belt. I remember a number of people, we spent nights here discussing an exclusive economic belt, numerous replicas of my colleague Bačić, I to him, he to me. That was nonstop. However, the fact that the Croatian people are finally winning next week is finally. But we waited many years, no one would answer for the damages that we had not declared before, long before the application of the exclusive economic belt. The difference between ZERP and the exclusive economic belt is you know what? Full applications. It's like buying a car without a car, a windscreen, a mirror, a steering wheel and seats. So this will be called the full application of the exclusive economic belt, and otherwise you deny yourself. Why would they declare the exclusive economic belt of counterpart Bacic to be the same as ZERP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24887	Thank you, Comrade Bull. You have two replicas. My friend Sacic, you're the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24888	Well, dear colleague Bulj, don't look back at this persuasive remark, and I find it inappropriate that you were as chairman of the local Suhač Committee, as you didn't know anything about IGP. For example, I have been collecting in this initiative after learning from Tonci Tadic since 2001, and I am proud to point out that as a member of the Association of Vineyards Jalzabet from Varazdin hill, I have been collecting signatures for both the Adriatic and the IGP, and for the mainland, the sea with one single wish to bring together green and blue Croatia, to protect Croatia's Adriatic, so we have died. And that is why I think and believe that the HDZ on the day of the IGP announcement will be here when we raise our hands with great gratitude to all Croatian patriots, sovereigns who have defended the Croatian sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24889	You have the answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24890	Well, I'd say right now that I'm proud to go into politics before the activists run for office in their village and that's no problem. And now I don't have it at all, it's even proud of what I'm running for, I'm going to live there, I'm going to stay and die in my Sinj, on my Suhachi and fight for it as long as I can. I hope that opportunities will be created better for us to have as many people as possible in this area of my Sinj, the Cetina region and the entire region of the Dalmatian mountain. And no, the problem regarding the exclusive economic belt of all initiatives that led to the major integration of Croatia's green and blue Adriatic, I think that the sea and land were too far ahead of these initiatives and the struggle to declare full application of the exclusive economic belt. And I hope and expect that next week we will finally all vote the exclusive economic belt together. Unfortunately, it's been waiting a long time. Better ever than never, it is the sovereign right of the Croatian Norod. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24891	Dear Boric, please choose another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24892	Thank you very much, President. Well, here's Mr. Reverend Miro Bulj, here's simply taking every opportunity to point out his own importance in declaring that economic belt. But I'm going to remind myself a little bit and go back to the history of 2016 after the election. The MOST negotiated with HDZ to agree with the government and there were conditions, there were also words about it, but the conditions were to create government officials, the Law on Officials, the conduct, RTTV, CNB, HBOR etc. IGP wasn't anywhere, you weren't interested at all. And when you started doing that, you started dealing with it when Mrs. Secretary, i.e. when Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic ordered the secretary to write a solution to replace your ministers who cancelled obedience and that was it. After that, you started looking for the spaces you forgot in the negotiations, you simply didn't care and now you come back when HDZ wants to solve it and will solve it next week and there won't be any problems, and MOST can vote for it if it wants to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24893	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24894	My colleague Boric, the first condition I asked for at the Most when I entered the list as a non-party person, was the declaration of the exclusive belt and it was agreed and signed. Plenkovic's first decision was to launch an exclusive economic belt and launch an initiative. That's the first one. We had "Open" mentioned it to your Mr. Shakespeare. I know you'll defend, you can check it out. I know you'll defend Andrej Plenkovic. You're Plenkovic's snowflake, you're all for Plenkovic. You're the ones who'll defend him, but you're telling the truth. The exclusive economic belt was a condition, I repeat the MOST and Andrej Plenkovic explained in 21 pages why not to declare it. Because you had to include, locate, transfer Croatian generals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24895	Thank you very much, fellow Bull. ... Let's go now, come on, don't yell. [[You can't hear me.]] My colleague Bulj please don't yell you'll get a third warning, you won't be able to participate in the work today. Now it is final on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most fellow Grmoi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24896	I didn't mean to pick up, but since my colleague, Boric, was shameless, then I decided I had to take it anyway. So the first decision by Andrej Plenkovic was to launch consultations on the declaration of an exclusive economic belt under our pressure. You weren't back then. You are only in charge here, you have your tasks, you play the patch, but where key decisions are made for the Croatian Democratic Community you were not there. That's where I was. Thus, it also negotiated the declaration of an exclusive economic belt. Some of your colleagues also played an honorary role in this, such as fellow Stier, who advocated that Croatia declares an exclusive economic belt, while Andrej Plenkovic kept expressing a certain reserve accordingly. So this is a decision that the Most stands for not from its beginnings, but from its beginnings. So I personally participated in the Sea and Land initiative, and we asked for the declaration of an exclusive economic belt. And to clarify immediately, we are pleased that this Croatian government and this ruling majority, with the support of all the opposition parties, will vote in favour of declaring an exclusive economic belt, means the Adriatic in accordance with the 1982 Convention on the Law of the Sea. We can talk today about the current foreign-political context, that Italy has set out to declare the IGP, but from the perspective of the present and the future this debate is completely irrelevant. The important thing is that we finally declare IGP. When we talk about benefits, we at MOST realize that it is a sea space that is increasingly valuable, which needs to be monitored and kept from excessive use, pollution as well. In this case, we are not being guided by some kind of cheap and limited populist or political approach that comes down to "suse, ourselves and podase" from today to tomorrow. So rather than making sure that Croatia has declared its exclusive economic belt independently of everything since next week and that it will remain and when the circumstances change. I also certainly expect that the decision will have some reserves, given that there are certain issues, means the demarcation itself. It also needs to be realistic and to realize that, for example, we have left the sea as an important resource and its transport function, so our ports like Rijeka have become second-class even in the local Adriatic context. And we don't have at this point, and that's the only truth enough power to be physically present in the IGP. Taking into account this and some other facts, Croatia is and that is what unfortunately gave up its maritime traditions, and we need to change it all together, so it can't happen either Most, or SDP, or Sovereigns, or HDZ itself. So our Adriatics have unfortunately traffic ending in Italian and Slovenian ports. We must have a clear plan to promote and improve Croatia as a maritime state. There's this aquaculture, there's fishing that's very important. If we are not going to change that, then even this IGP, which we will naturally clap on next week, will not bring as much of the desired benefit as we all do here, regardless of these criticisms that we refer to our colleagues, I am convinced that they also wish Croatia could benefit from it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24897	The final and co-worker Zekanovic reported on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24898	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Ten years ago, my first non-political activity but the activation was related to the action "The Sea and the Land". Then Mr. Ivica Reljkovic and Mate Knezovic talked me into this action. They were initiators, one spiritual movence of that action, and I have to admit that for the first time, I was standing on the stand for two weeks, collecting signatures. We've collected 170, 180,000 signatures, and that's where I'm headed somehow. For those who have forgotten and I hope and I am sure that many remember this action, it was an initiative that asked the Croatian government then to declare an exclusive economic belt. The exclusive economic belt was a theme in the Parliament many times, so I will remind you of the year when our Sovereignist Pero Kovacevic and his team, then it was the right team and gave it, means the bill for the IGP to be declared. It never happened. I'm not sure everyone knows what this is about when they're talking about IGP. I'll just try to explain for a little while, I've already explained from this place here. The sea of each country is divided into the inner sea, which is the sea between the island and the coast. Then the territorial sea stretching 12 nautical miles from the last island or point of shore towards the high seas. And then from those 12 nautical miles to the epicontinental belt, that is to the line of demarcation, there are international waters where every country has the right to declare ZERP what we have done or IGP. Now what many people don't understand, and they're talking about this, and you know it, I guess. When we joined the EU, we actually agreed to make our international waters a respected minister what? The European sea and that everyone can fish there. Well, when we're colleagues, Bacic here, you're talking to me, and you're bothering me. Well, then when it's us, I apologize. It's all right. So, and then we agreed to mean that Italy and all the other EU Member States can fish with us. Right? By entering the EU. E, however, when we declare the IGP and everyone has to know it, and we Sovereigns have also given the government a question and the government's request doesn't change anything. Because the European sea remains a European sea and everyone can fish there. Mr. Boriq and Mr. Bacic, nothing changes. Isn't that right, Minister? Does it change what? Nothing changes, unfortunately. But there's one little catch, 21 Chuck, catch whatever you want. Then we have one chance to send, so when our minister sits with Andrej Plenkovic and says listen to Andrej, we could now send a letter to the European Commission and ask for full protection of the IGP. And then there's no more fishing there at that point. Is that right for us? It's a match. Why? Because Croatian fishermen don't fish there, they don't only have Italian fishermen. It's an important hideout, and 70% of the fish in that space are coming to us anyway. So the key question is not if we're going to declare IGP, it was called ZERP or IGP is the same thing. It's the key to moving on. I'll support the IGP, but a key step away and everyone needs to know that. So that's how it is. Will the Government of Andrej Plenkovic then ask the European Commission for full protection of the IGP. It's just a question. Now will it? I'll put my hand in the fire, here I can bet with anyone here and on the left and on the right, the quasi right and those who don't know where they are that it won't happen, or that we'll have the same fishing regime for Italian fishermen in Croatian international waters, the same regime. That's what matters. Nothing's gonna change. So what do you think the Italians are crazy that they will agree to donate to Croatia what is Croatian, our international waters. Well, they're not. They're not crazy. They will continue to hunt fish in our part of international waters and that is amen. Do you know when? As long as there's a government like this that's not a sovereign government. One day in the government, when Croatian sovereigntys are part of this or that, then know it won't be like that anymore. Yes, sir, I will!
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24899	And what is the injured Rules of Procedure? He spoke to your colleague, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24900	I didn't have any other form just to say how many billion kunas we've lost in these 19 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24901	Not a colleague of Sacic's. Please, for an honorary representative, what you're doing is not worthy. Have a seat and don't try to manipulate one of those ugly ways. You're getting a warning. This is really incorrect. Comrade Bačić, please finalize on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24902	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, with this law on aquaculture, ZERP and IGP has nothing to do with it. It's the first thing, nothing. Aquaculture, the exclusive economic belt is about 10, 11 or 12 nautical miles away. There is not a single farm, nor a maricculture in an exclusive economic belt because it is 12 nautical miles from the coastal islands and 12 nautical miles from the starting lines of the territorial sea. This is usually the Croatian coast. Only where the coastal islands of Croatia are and even deeper into the Adriatic because Palagreža is Croatian. It is this part of the Palagruža 12 nautical miles, even more making the ZERP more Croatian than it is, that would belong to the base of half of the Adriatic where the border is an epicontinental belt between Croatia and Italy. Talk about ZERP and IGP needs to know something. First of all, the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, should know the Croatian Maritime Code, should learn something about it. It is important to know that today we are talking about the ZERP and the IGP, and when we are here, the Croatian Democratic Community as these parties speak today, neither existed nor knew what sovereignty is, nor knew what is an exclusive economic belt, nor why we are fighting for the ZERP, nor why we suspend it for EU Member States is exceptional, unnecessary. Therefore, ZERP was declared by the government of Ivica Racan on 23 September 2003 and immediately suspended for a year. At the time, talking about ZERP and IGP made sense because we were third countries, we were not members of the EU, and we were able to pretend to be masters in our ZERP and in our IGP. Today's entry, not today but seven years ago by joining the EU, was the ZERP, it was an exclusive economic belt, it was an ecological zone, it was a fishing zone, it was a common EU sea, and we are in it together implementing an EU fisheries policy concerning both our fishermen and our French fishermen and Italian fishermen and Greek fishermen and all EU fishermen. It does not apply to third non-EU countries. I don't understand why the Racan government then made ZERP instead of an exclusive economic belt. When she went into that entrance it was logical to declare an exclusive economic belt. It is not, but it should be said that the difference between the exclusive economic belt and the protected eco-fishing belt in nature for Croatia's interests, the economic, political difference. 99.9% of the ZERP content is both IGP content in both the ecological aspect and the fishing aspect. The only thing that has IGP and no ZERP is inability. We can't build artificial islands in ZERP 12 nautical miles from the coast by declaring ZERP. You can imagine what depth that is in the Adriatic. And secondly, we cannot exploit the energy of wind and sea, tides and tides. That's the difference. And for fishermen, when we declare the IGP nothing will change, nothing or will have a better starting position or worse than ZERP. It's either who doesn't understand or doesn't want to or pretend stupid. When honourable representative Tonci Tadic had a million replicas with me ten years ago, it made sense to talk about ZERP, it made sense because we were not members of the EU at the time. And then we could prescribe in our ZERP or IGP conditions as an independent state that has its sovereign rights on that ZERP. But then the HDZ government, along with the SDP, found that Croatia's strategic national interest is to join the EU. We could then, willingly, perhaps decide on the declaration of ZERP and IGP, or that ZERP refers to EU member states, but we forgot to block in Slovenia because of the Savadria Wave. And stronger players than Slovenia have threatened to block EU accession negotiations. Today, we could not have 24 billion euros if we were standing there with Vukica for what they always advocate in the Balkans. We measured between the strategic interest of Croatia which Dr. Franjo Tudjman, today's anniversary of his death, spoke in his first Croatian Democratic Community declaration after we become an independent, sovereign Croatian state that we will join the EU And we did it. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Thank you, colleague Bačić.]] We've got a ZERP. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] The incursion president: it's over. [[Thank you very much. Here I go, Mr. President. .../]] Ten seconds have elapsed.... which since 2013 has become common...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24903	Finish your colleague, Bačić. Comrade Zekanovic, did you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24904	That's right. So article 238, Mr. Bacic has brought forth here one untruth or half truth. I also stressed that nothing is changing, but you did not say the key that we had the opportunity to send the request to the European Commission when we declared the IGP. Now, I wonder if you'll be lobbyist too to send that. I know you won't, and the Italians will still fish there, unfortunately, but okay. [[Intruder President: Please colleague Zekanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24905	My colleague Bačić, please. You get a warning from your colleague Zekanovic. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. However, colleagues and colleagues, so the breach of the Rules of Procedure began to be misused again. That doesn't make any sense anymore. So, even my colleague Sacic said I have no other way, so I'm going to make it up, cause a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'll suggest if this continues, I'll suggest we have another discussion about it and change the Rules of Procedure, because this doesn't make any sense. So we have certain institutes that we've arranged ourselves, we've begun to abuse them. So we need to change them, and this doesn't make any sense. I will now ask finally on behalf of the Proposer, Minister of Honor, Mary Vuckovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24906	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to thank all MPs and MPs for their participation in the debate, for making useful proposals and suggestions. I also especially thank all those who notice the results of the work in fisheries and aquaculture, the co-operation of the administration, the scientific community and Croatian fishermen and the conscious approach that we show in making the regulations and respect we show and show this Croatian Assembly. However, I also want to finally clear out the truths that are repeatedly repeated. These truths are that, so the truth is that there is no difference between an economic exclusive belt and a protected eco-fishing belt in a fisheries component. In fact, the Maritime Code of Chapter V of Article 43, which speaks of an exclusive economic belt, clearly states that it assigns sovereign rights to a country under one - in the exploitation, exploration, conservation and management of marine living and inanimate natural resources. Under two - production of energy from the sea, sea currents and winds. And under three - building artificial islands. The protected ecological and fishing belt, declared by Croatia on 3 October 2003, is based on the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982 and the 1994 Maritime Code, which gives it sovereign rights in the exploitation, exploration, conservation and management of marine, living natural resources, and in scientific and research work and conservation of the marine environment. Therefore, there is no difference regarding fisheries plus additional Regulation 1380 on the common fisheries policy which Croatia is obliged to apply and apply. Since joining the EU, the way the sea is used by an EU vessel is prescribed. In doing so, we protect them well, we have progress in preserving resources, we fight for our fishermen, and we have a growth in aquaculture of almost 20%. It's an incorrect figure of 17,000 tons, it's close to 20,000 tons. And the other false thing I want to say here is the untruth that keeps repeating the consumption of fish in Croatia by the head of the population between 8 and 9 kg. She's repeating herself. I didn't say the exact information on the board yesterday because I said I needed to check it out, but I'm going to say it right here. He's 18.4 kg per capita, he's growing, and we, due to the principle of caution and the necessary checks and different opinions of certain scientists, are further checking that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24907	Stay Minister. Let's take it in a row. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24908	Dear Minister, I've known you since you were secretary of state, and you've remained thorough and well spoken. And if I were the Prime Minister, I'd make my choice, too, my word of honor. However, I agree with you. I also said nothing changes, and I explained it. I think I explained exactly what you did. However, answer me but quite frankly, can you be honest with the key question of whether there is a possibility, and I know it exists because I have spoken to several university professors who are dealing with this topic, that you, as a Ministry or Government of the Republic of Croatia, are then asking the Commission for full protection of the IGP as a standstill for fish. We wouldn't lose anything but get very much in that fishing sense, because fishermen from that nest would go to Croatian territorial waters anyway, our fishermen wouldn't spend their oil, but they don't fish there anyway because they don't have ships that are suitable for these remote destinations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24909	Croatia and the Italian Republic show good co-operation in establishing an exclusive economic belt. Also in recent years, we have had extraordinary cooperation on the protection of marine resources. I will repeat the example of the Apple Hall and the three-year agreement signed after a long effort in October 2017, which already has positive effects on demerzal marine resources. I will repeat that we have initiatives from the Republic of Croatia on the establishment of new such restrictions on fishing in other areas. They're all in a protected eco-fishing belt, that's our way. I will stress here that since Croatia joined the EU, out of its 3600 ships that make up the Fleet for Economic Fishing have lost 82, the Italian Republic more. In this regard, I will also point out recently that the Italian Republic has established an obligation to reduce the gambling fleet by 15% which is the result of both Croatia's cooperation and efforts to protect its resources. ... [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24910	Comrade Zekanovic, third warning now. Goodbye! Thank you very much. You said what you had. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24911	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, what my colleague Zekanovic left to say is not true. You know very well, you were then a state secretary that Croatia in the part of the apple cauldron stretching both on the Croatian territorial sea and on the protected ecological and fishing belt even partially passes and half of the Adriatic is protected and in agreement with the European Commission there is a ban on fishing. That's the first thing. Another thing that is good, that Italy will declare an exclusive economic belt if it declares it as it has announced it. Because then the whole Adriatic which is not the case now will be protected from the Croatian and Italian sides. In this part of Italy, the non-existent IGP, i.e. the right they have under the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, is now open sea. And that's what's causing damage to the Adriatic. The moment the Italians declare an exclusive economic belt, we'll be able to protect the entire Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24912	Thank you. Here's your answer. Comrade Brumnic, give it to me before you answer, think about what you're saying and don't get it from where you are. And worse when you throw nonsense away. Here you go, Minister. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24913	I can only confirm.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24914	Then let's move on. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24915	In 2013, the Ministers of the European Commission gave independent and research, i.e. She did research where it was found that Croatia lost more than a billion kuna annually because it did not declare an exclusive economic belt. You are familiar with this and you know well that it is not the same as the ZERP and the exclusive economic belt, because it would be pointless for this Parliament and this government to propose an exclusive economic belt, but you have another problem. Why didn't you accept it when some other political option proposed an exclusive economic belt. We'll accept this, but for five years you've been claiming to exclude the economic belt and the ZERP that it's the same. And now suddenly you deny yourself, and in 2013 independent research commissioned by the European Commission says, you can find it very easy, that Croatia is not losing a billion kuna because of its failure to declare it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24916	Thank you very much. Here's your answer. Would you like to answer? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24917	I've said it a hundred times. There's no difference in fishing. And now I've quoted what there are differences, but what I'm going to do now. Now I can say I have to argue that I'm blue and I'm eighty feet tall.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24918	Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24919	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have a question that unfortunately cannot be resolved on the Committee on the Environment, and it concerns the application of the Association of Maliston Shellers who seek retesting and are opposed to actually building a Waste Management Centre in Lucina Razdosje. As you know, the first tests that have been made have shown that there is a danger and that it is possible for the waste of water to penetrate the Bay of Maloston. Since the possibility of aquaculture in the Bay of Maloston is actually enough for destruction to happen once, so once we are aware and we are aware of both climate change and sudden changes in time that can further stimulate it. Are you prepared to do additional tests and ask for guarantees that it is absolutely impossible to waste water to come from the Waste Management Centre in the Bay of Maloston Especially in the light of the fact that the pebble is protected at European level. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24920	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24921	This year, the agriculture ministry has notified another state support that is currently related to the breeding of pebbles. Also in October, the Maloston Stone received an international designation of originality at European level. We are making significant efforts to cooperate and help Maloston shellfishers and all shellfishers in Croatia. As regards the Waste Management Centre, Lucino Distance, it received its permits and consent to a positive assessment in relation to the environment by relevant institutions, scientists and those involved. There is also a warning on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture. I am certainly not the one who can challenge the people who participated in the environmental impact assessment, and as well as all the memos I get from the Maloston shellfishers we always try to check it out with the competent institutions because it is the resistor in our care.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24922	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24923	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, it might be good to clarify once again that neither so far, so in ZERP, it was not possible for Member States to charge fish fishing, that it would not be possible to do so in the future. And given that these issues are repeatedly repeated that Croatia could have done something about this, I would like you to make it clear once again that the situation is about it and what the situation is about control. Is it true that Croatia has actually acquired drones that control what is happening on our part of the Adriatic?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24924	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24925	So there's no difference plus we're all subject to the rules of the common fisheries policy. We also have significant benefits from them. Thus, there is no difference or possibility of collection of fisheries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24926	Thank you very much. Comrade Ante Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24927	Thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor. Here I was trying to get the last call for a replica, but here's my colleague Kujundzic beat me to it. I'll try to finish something positive. Here you have also told the ministry's statistics on how much the Croatians spend fish, i.e. One kilo per capita and it doesn't match these 10 kilos of material, I think it's 18. I think we're the Mediterranean country that should definitely increase that. I know that only the Ministry of Agriculture has excellent projects and "From Field to Table" and "Me Breakfast". I hope you'll come up with several projects and related to increasing the use of fish on our tables. We've started the day here, and the Minister of Health, Mr. Beros, joins us. We started the day with the National Strategic Framework against Cancer, we mentioned nutrition, we mentioned Croatian products. You try to get as many fish on our tables as you can. I think we'll be much healthier and more normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24928	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24929	Thank you very much. Croatia will also work through operational programmes and other measures to encourage fish consumption and control its seas, so I am using this opportunity to repeat that over 100 million kuna from the Operational Programme for Maritime and Fisheries have been invested in fishing control. That we've increased the number of inspectors from 30 to over 220 in collaboration with other bodies. And that last year, as we may not have seen enough, we have received a prize as a Mediterranean country in competition from all 28 Mediterranean countries, whether in the European Union or not, for those who have applied new technologies in fisheries control and the conservation of the marine environment in the fastest of the year. This award was presented to us in June 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24930	I thank the minister. Yes, we have another replica, colleague Kujundzic, video link.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24931	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Jandrokovic. At the very beginning, I admire Mr. Bukarica, and congratulations on the energy. Last night, the man was here until midnight and 20. Dear Minister, I will repeat the question I asked at the beginning. In fact, the most important problem in aquaculture is the diseases of the organisms in cultivation. A very small number of medicines for use in aquaculture have been registered on the market, which may generate resistance to available medicinal products due to the continued use of one and the same medicinal product. Also, imports of younger fish for breeding purposes poses a risk of entering devasting diseases, and I wonder if epidemiological zoning has been carried out in terms of geographical areas that are dangerous. And in addition, the main problem in freshwater aquaculture is regulation of activity from the basic use of resources, so I wonder if an appropriate legal-administrative framework has been established and if what has changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24932	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24933	As far as I know, the zoning you're talking about has not been established. I think it is difficult to establish, and I can say that the issue of medicines is governed by the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products, which will also change in the next period, so we will see if this legislative framework can be improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24934	Thank you very much. The Minister and I have come to an end with this. I thank everyone who participated in the debate. I'm locking it up and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we will move to the last item of the agenda today - Interpelation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the preparation of the health system of the Republic of Croatia to the special circumstances caused by the Coronation Virus are 16 representatives in the Croatian Assembly under Article 86. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the interpretation debate, provisions 145 to 151 shall apply. Rules of Procedure. The government filed a report. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The applicant's representative will give an additional explanation. We have three representatives of our colleagues Mrak – Taritas, colleague Marić and colleague Bencic, so please let us go, to schedule your time. The first is a colleague of the Dark – Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24937	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, we've seen a lot of things before. We've seen that usually about the interpelation we had in this assembly, or about the ministers, we're getting the Minister's recall at three in the afternoon. But here we are now getting a 15-to-9 appointment, coming up with a resolute minister. And that time 15 to 9 in the evening points to two facts. The first fact that you think exactly that about the state of Croatian health is that we get an appointment in the late evenings and that the less you hear about it, the less you know. But you just can't put it away and you can't hide it. Because Croatia has a serious problem. We share one part of the problem with the whole world, of course with the European Union which we are part of. It's a pandemic covid-19 disease caused by the SARS COV-2 virus. There's no dispute at all that this is a situation we've never found ourselves in, and I sincerely hope we never meet again. However, Croatia has another problem, but this problem is only ours, and that is that we are all EU members among the worst. And by the health and economic consequences of the coronary crisis. We'll put the economics aside this time, and let's just concentrate on the health care. Among the 10 European regions, after a seven-day incidence of 100,000 people, 7 are Croatian counties. We keep all the first six places out of it. Unfortunately, we are currently the first EU country in a million cases. We're fourth, unfortunately, by the number of deceased. We're one of the last ones on the number of tests done. Only that statistics would actually be enough to make one simple conclusion. The crisis is managed badly and the Croatian health system has not well prepared these circumstances caused by the coronary virus. Of course, in this country we are always convinced that we do not trust our own eyes, but HDZ, and even the simplest conclusions are not so easy to draw. As a result, 16 MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament in the procedure and sent this interpretation. We want the Parliament to even discuss how our health system works in this situation, or even more specifically, to discuss what kind of work the government, the Ministry of Health and the National Staff have done. This interpretation has several main parts, i.e. messages. It is essential that the Government, Ministry and Staff, all of which are more or less the same people, have not prepared the Croatian health system well for the crisis that has hit us. And of course we're not talking about preparing for the moment of the pandemic's outbreak, because really nobody could have predicted it. But after the first few months, it was clear what was waiting for us in the fall and winter. And now we see what it is and how serious it is. The government and the headquarters were aware of it themselves, as people in Croatia were constantly warning about the dangers of autumn, the second wave and how it wasn't all called. It is more surprising that adjustments and measures have not been made during all this time so that the health system does not find itself in the chaotic situation in which it was found. For the sake of awareness of what awaits us, the government is even greater and more serious responsibility for all failures in the preparation, coordination, supply of medicines and equipment, the schedule of doctors and medical staff, possible employment and recruitment of new people. The Croatian public came daily and witnessed from the very system from individuals working there to their associations and organizations. And these testimonies all the squads speak and confirm one and the same. The health system is not well prepared as well as other measures of the Government and the Staff are only working to put an end to petty fires and it is very often too late. But the serious process of timely preparation and active coordination is out of the question. A particularly visible case is that of the Dubrava Medical Hospital. The Croatian public has never been convincingly explained why the very hospital is being refurbished to a exclusively covid hospital. Even the government's response to our interpretation in that sense is very unusual. It says there, quotes: “After thorough analysis and knowledge of all the hospitals and air conditioning systems, it is concluded that the hospital has significant potential for the treatment of covid-19 positive patients in one part of the institution, while the rest of the hospital would be intended for the treatment of patients who are covid negative.” However, a decision was subsequently made to reroute the entire hospital with all its consequences for a huge number of people gravitating in that hospital. The consequences we're about to see over time are for the hospital itself in terms of people leaving and disrupting the overall functioning of the hospital for a long time. But good. When the decision was already made, a new problem followed. It did not seem nearly enough for that decision to be carried out successfully and consistently. The chaotic situation in the hospital itself reached the heat of a day’s spilling into the public. Protests of employees, reports of lack of organisation and coordination, insufficient people, equipment, medicines. It all happened there. Six months after the government and the headquarters that were to organize this began to warn us that a dangerous autumn was ahead of us. The reactions and comments of hundreds of doctors, nurses, technicians and all others who work in hospitals, respected professionals and people dedicated to their work have shown us very clearly exactly what we are saying in this interpretation. The system hasn't prepared itself. People didn't get ready. They knew neither what was expected of them, nor where, nor when, nor what were to be done, nor those who needed new knowledge at the time of the day for new circumstances. They threw themselves into the wrinkled water and let themselves cope. Another major concern we have expressed in this interpretation is the availability of health care for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What happened to prevention, diagnostics and treatment of all those who need it and are not covid positive. The system was put into a cold drive or started working in a very limited range. Cancelling appointments, extending waiting lists, sending them to other hospitals where they don't know anything about it. This has become the reality of many people who needed health care. This is confirmed by the Government in response to this interpretation, so let me quote: “The work of the hospital was adapted to epidemiological circumstances, and the Ministry of Health instructed hospitals to continue taking care of priority patients. It seems to me that when you give someone instructions that they still need to take care of priority patients, that means they're the only ones they care about if not everyone else. Therefore, there are two key problems directly responsible by the Government, the Ministry and the Staff – the unpreparedness and disorganization of the anti-covid-19 system and the halting of healthcare for all those who did not suffer from this disease. Everything in response to the government writes and as much as it doesn't say and confirms, as well as the time in which you decided to discuss this. If you think you're doing well, then you should have boasted about it, and we should've gotten the admission to boast and say, "Here, listen and see how well we're doing." But you're also aware that the system isn't prepared. We're discussing this term, and now my colleagues are going to say something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24938	Now she's going to continue her colleague, Maric. And in terms of time, we can't do all the points in the morning. This week the three points proposed by the opposition have quite solid terms. However, today's debate lasted so long and also dominantly by the opposition, that I can't put everything in the morning. I'd love to, but we don't have three in the morning, we only have one. Here you go, fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24939	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Why did we approach this interpretation, i.e. we started the impelation. In this multi-month pandemic, more and more accumulated health problems are coming to light than financial problems. We saw fast-growing total debt in health care, inadequate restrictions, huge debts of major drugstores, threats to many hospitals that they wanted to run out of drugs, organisational difficulties, human problems, and certainly the burning problem of escalating the epidemic, the large number of patients and the dead, the tension of the health system. In the past 9 months, as the National Post of Government's appointment seeks to manage the crisis, it is high time to report its work to the highest House in the Republic of Croatia, so the Croatian Parliament. We are not in any way worthy of the work and efforts of both the Staff and the Government and the Ministry in the fight against the pandemic. It's not easy for anyone. It's about a new monster. However, now nine months after there have been numerous mistakes in work and wrong decisions and double measures and adaptations, it is time for Prime Minister Plenkovic and the Government to submit a report on the work of the Staff and the Government to recognise where it was wrong, to start accepting advice, constructive proposals and assistance to opposition, professions and most members of the Government's Scientific Council. And it can't be said that we don't make constructive suggestions and advice. Determining in decisions, inconsistency in work, led after initial support by the profession, citizens, all of us after a few months until the fall of trust in the work of the Staff and Government, led to the confusion of the citizens and the escalation of the epidemic. We have listed more points in this interpretation that we want to discuss. First, we believe that there is an insufficient organisation, a lack of basic resources and a lack of coordination between various institutions in the Republic of Croatia. And we believe that this is the direct responsibility of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Health Minister Mr. Beroš told the Parliament that he felt enormous responsibility for the Croatian health system. I believe it's not easy for him to try. Here's the radio and he's sick. He admitted that there were a number of problems in the system, but he added that the organisation of work in certain institutions is not in its authority but is trying to influence improvement. However, if the minister has knowledge that in certain hospitals the organisation is not good, his instructions are not respected, inspections are not respected, infectologists are not involved in co-ordination to fight covids, there is no money for drugs, but there is money for new parking then he must react rather than stick his head in the sand. Another problem we have already heard is the availability and quality of available healthcare to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Health and the Government will need to make a clear plan and strategy that all delayed tests, inspections and operations will be compensated not only for cancer patients but also for other diagnosis. It will require further involvement of healthcare professionals to make up for all of this when this epidemic calms down. And cutting off healthcare professionals on the payroll and not rewarding everyone in the system especially those on the front line of the fight is not a good message, not a good motivation. The third thing we want to talk about is the need for mental health. There are still no experts on mental health or communicologists involved in the headquarters. We know that this epidemic causes people fear, anxiety not only for health and their own life but also for existence given the economic situation. We don't know what will be the psychological consequences of the epidemic. Furthermore, we believe that the Civil Protection Staff loses credibility on a daily basis. We talked about this subject on several occasions including yesterday during the debate on the work of the Staff. The rulings, therefore, have constantly twisted everything the opposition has pointed to in previous discussions. So it's not our problem that he set himself up and formed the Centre in February 2020. I said we're not insulting anyone's work, but after nine months, isn't it time to report to the Parliament and explain the decisions of the Chiefs of Staff and Government? Yes, the press headquarters regularly reports to the public about the number of infected, dead, these or those measures, answers the questions of journalists. But whether this is the same as what we are asking to submit regularly to the Parliament’s Report, explain the measures that are planned and to say why certain decisions have been made in the previous period, why this sport can, others cannot. Citizens should be clearly told the measures will be necessary by then and then, not speak of 21.12 and give false hopes and false projections, and it is known how many weeks it takes to show the effect of the measures at all. Why is it not clearly and honestly said that the epidemic is under control when under 500 new infected daily as the waist says. So today there were a record 4620 new cases, yesterday 4520. The total number of deaths is 2420, and unfortunately there will be more. The government has defined the Staff as the most important expert, coordinating and operational body to prevent the spread of covid-19 disease. He's the head of the Home Secretary. E should only say and acknowledge that the Staff is a political body and that it also implements the prime minister's political decisions according to the political moment given. In the follow-up, my colleague Bencic will say her part, and I will report later on to further explain what the current problems in the health system are since I come from the health system believe that I will be justified and fair and accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24940	Now we're just going to clean up the pay phone, and then we're going to continue with our colleague Bencic. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24941	Thank you. As I thank all who stayed in this late hour to wait for the order of the interpretation we sent to me three or four weeks ago. But also three days ago, more than a month ago, the Green-Left Block Club sent a proposal to conclude on changing the Covid crisis management model. How important it is for the government to hear different opinions, different attitudes, proposals that may have been able to improve the situation that went from extremely badly to a catastrophic view, and since the month has not responded to these proposals, they have not come to the agenda. And we also see that the debate on this subject is being held at 9 p.m. when the government can be sure that none of the citizens follow it in the transfer. You said you didn't have three in the morning so we could put all three of our proposals in the morning for discussion. None of them were, none of them were in the morning. So, the government's proposal to interpret the government at nine o'clock in the evening, so the government, not a single minister about the crisis, which is the number one crisis Croatia has faced since the war on here, at nine o'clock in the evening. It's all about your relationship to the opposition. You were saying in the meantime that the situation is under control and that the crisis is managed well. I don't know how it's possible to claim that the crisis is managed well and that there's not much self-criticity or will to change anything. If 6 Croatian counties are in the top 6 places of the worst endangered regions in the EU and if the number of cases affecting 100,000 of us has more than just Luxembourg across the EU. How is that possible? How can we manage so well and have the worst results in the EU? We've got some foot on our hands, is it UDBA? Is it 'em or 'em? So something about that management isn't right, and we need to fix something. What we need to fix is we made a proposal, so more than a month ago, and we said we were looking first, firstly, for decisions limiting citizens' rights, and that we would have to make such decisions to limit the spread of the virus and we are aware that we must and agree to it. But that such decisions are made by the Parliament in two-thirds of the majority not to be formal, not for us to be important here, but to send people a message that if two-thirds of us here are very different valuable positions behind a decision that is a message. It's a message of consensus, it's a message of this importance, it's a message that we have to implement it. That's why we asked for it. Secondly, we asked for the work to be done and to start implementing the existing health system management plan in an emergency situation, to change the governance model from what is regular to the state of emergency and to bring it in line with the plan that exists for such situations and which provides exactly how it moves to centralised management of the entire system. And of course we're being reported. To ensure predictability of the introduction of epidemiological measures and their binding to the projections of the number of hospitalized. We asked to further invest in hospital facilities and increase the number of people in critical wards in hospitals. We also asked for continued monitoring and reporting by the Parliament on the overall effects of the covid crisis on the health condition of patients suffering from other diseases. We want to see, know the exact data of how to approach health at a time of crisis and how we can do it in time we... or improve the situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also asked that science and scientific recommendations be separated from political decisions and that we know exactly what is the place for political decisions to eventually know where the responsibility for this crisis management resides. [[The incursion of the president: I thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24942	Thank you very much. I'll give you my word. I'd just like to look back at these objections that the debates are going on in later hours. So, those who have been in the Croatian Parliament very well know that this many opposition proposals have never come at all to debate, but have waited months in the agenda. This time, I put in this session two proposals on impellation even though I didn't have to. We could have waited and discussed it when you collected 60 signatures, I didn't do it. This week every afternoon, tonight is the evening because this debate took a long time before the opposition proposals came. So it's logical to put first the legislative proposals that come from the government. Today, for example, there was a very important point in the 2030 Strategy on the fight against cancer. Years. And you will allow me because it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so that the President of the Croatian Parliament determines the agenda and dynamics of the debate. But I don't admit it, and I won't accept you telling me I'm incorrect, because I'm not incorrect. If I were incorrect, it would be a little different then your points would come to the agenda, or they wouldn't come at all. So please don't, take a look at the history of the Croatian Parliament as the debates took place, as some of the presidents of the Croatian Parliament acted, and then criticise it. Hey, buddy Grbin, you wanted to take a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24943	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I am looking for a break related to this item of the agenda, and in part about what you are now talking about. Yeah, you're right. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament give you the full right to determine the agenda, except when 60 days pass then MPs can request intervention to include a point in the agenda and then we are obliged to discuss it. And yes, it's your full right and the law is on your side. However, I'll point you to something else. Since the beginning of the pandemic that was declared in early March of this year, today is the day with the largest number of newly infected. Biggest. Croatia almost reached Luxembourg in the 14-day event and came to an unfamous first place in Europe for the number of infected. The death toll is growing. And today is the first opportunity to discuss specifically measures in the Croatian Parliament and to respond to the coronary crisis, not to some law, not to some report, but specifically to measures and response of the health system to the coronary crisis. And I think it was in the interest of the public and Croatian citizens to discuss this in another term. But like I said, it's your right and you said it correctly to determine when this debate will take place. However, one is right and the other is justice. They should also know how to tell. However, there is one other thing where the right is not on your side, and that is the fact that Croatian broadcasting does not pass on this session despite its legal obligations. There's no right on your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24944	So, with the editorial policy of Croatian broadcasting, I have connections just as much as you do, that we understand each other. That's the first thing. The second thing, there is a max TV and there is a channel of the Croatian Parliament that constantly monitors parliamentary debates as well as our website, so portal. And don't try now because I just got a message that people are following and watching what's going on here. As for the debate over the covid crisis, we had a report from the Prime Minister last year, so we had a debate on the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. Yesterday, we had a proposal to conclude a colleague from the Most Independent Lists. Today, we have an impelation. We talk daily about this situation and all aspects of the health situation. So you're looking for a break from your colleague Tomasevic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24945	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Representatives' Club...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24946	No, no, no. Excuse me, you've already had a break today, so you can't do it again. You had it in the morning. What? [[Intruder Tomašević: Then at the second point.]] No, no. [[Intruder Tomašević: At second point.]] Once a day you can ask for a break You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[Intruder: Not until after midnight.]] [[Tomašević: So it's almost midnight.]] [[We'll wait.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24947	Your Honor, you have violated Rule 38 of the Rules of Procedure. So it's absolutely unacceptable for you to comment here on the representatives and what they said in their discussions. You put all the points of the opposition in the evening, and this is none of your good will. Your throat is water and you want to get rid of these difficult points as soon as possible and discuss problems in the health system and in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24948	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. You know you have two warnings, this was the third one. ... Well, I keep records here. [[I can't hear you.]] Well, I don't care. No, it's not long, it's, it's a third. You have two warnings. Please don't get involved in this, ask me. You have two warnings. You won't get a warning now. I'm just telling you don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. And secondly, it is normal for the President of the Parliament to respond when he is called directly. So, when someone calls me, I guess I should just keep my mouth shut all the time? Well, I've got my wits about talking to you. I don't need to be defended by others, because then you're going to complain to them about jumping to help me for some of your reasons. Okay, never mind. Let's go. Who else is answering? Comrade Reiner, here you go. A request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24949	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to discuss a phenomenon that seems to exist in the opposition, which is the phenomenon of amnesia. We're discussing health care, so that fits well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24950	Just a little fellow Reiner. What's so funny about that? .../Intruder Bencic, you can't hear. Well, he's been talking for 10 seconds. How do you know what he'll say? ... [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24951	So how do you know it has nothing to do with the dot?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24952	So please, come on, please be correct and polite. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24953	So there seems to be a recurring phenomenon of amnesia, or oblivion. You mentioned it and I'll mention again when it's those who now prejudge to put it allegedly only in the evening, etc. they did not put any proposal of opposition on the agenda at all. They didn't put on the agenda as many times as we'd suggested, they'd just keep on going and never come to the agenda at all. Now they're coming to the agenda. Why some things are being debated for hours and hours, and that may be a short question for those who have discussed it for so long. This could've come at 4:00 p.m. on the agenda. Why not? You have to ask those who are exhausted, kept repeating and repeating the same things that we already hear here a thousand times from the same people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24954	I thank my colleague Reiner. You'll get a break. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms, you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24955	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Reiner, injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure demeaning us, his colleagues and fellow MPs when he said when the SDP was in power we did not put HDZ on the agenda. It's simply not true, but it's not possible. Because to put something on the agenda, something was supposed to be. Since you didn't suggest anything, nothing could have been put into the agenda. The suggestions of the other parties that were coming were being put on, but Mr. Reiner suffered from the oblivion he imputed to others.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24956	Thank you, thank you very much. Dear coat of arms, we are a little longer than you are in the Croatian Parliament. We remember all kinds of practices, but we also remember that many of the points we proposed didn't come to the agenda, but I don't think it matters at all right now. Now we're gonna take a ten-minute break. I invite you to talk about the subject and try to be correct about the debt, not to turn this into personal wars, but to talk about what is really the meaning of this proposal. It's the 21st 17 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24957	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 21.28 HOURS]] We have replicas first. Replication of the esteemed representative of the Grmoya at the representative Mrak-Taritash first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24958	Thank you. I'd like to apologize to the council services first. It's my fault. I didn't realize what this gentleman was telling me, so here I am sorry that I put him in an awkward position. And as for these points and debates, it's quite clear that the ruling wants to crack all these for them problematic points. Last night, we had at 8:20 a.m., the debate lasted until midnight and thirty. Just us from the MOST, a fellow SDP, I don't know, there was someone from the MOMO, I'm not sure. But mostly, so the rulings didn't discuss it at all. There's more of them tonight. There's Minister Berosch. I see he wants to get rid of this, too, because this point is waiting for him. She's right behind him, and she wants to get rid of her now as soon as possible. And it's clear to me that you asked for this to be discussed. So in that sense, I think the opposition will have to take some new action.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24959	Thank you very much. If we have any answers, there was no question, but the esteemed representative, Mrak-Taritash, is there anything she wants to say?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24960	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, a colleague of Grmoy's basically made some findings, but these findings may once again need to be defined. What I said in the opening. So it's about the government's work. The government responded to the 19-page text and there is Minister Beros on its behalf. I'm sorry that Minister Beros had to come by at 9:00 today. I think he'd be better off and he'd be much better off to discuss this in another term, but he's here. We'll discuss as much as we think we should, until we have to. So the President of the Parliament decided on that agenda and that's just the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24961	Thank you very much. The next replica to the respected representative Taritas is the respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24962	Thank you very much. Your colleagues Mrak-Taritaš spoke about the organisation of time, at which time we are discussing such an important topic and the current topic in Croatia. And I can't really keep it quiet either, it's fantastic and magical when HDZ is talking about amnesia, it really is. And I would also like to remind you of one more thing, and what the Croatian public needs to know. So they are praised for the great democratic achievements of discussing opposition proposals, and on the other hand, they fail to be asked to do so in business. Because opposition can, has the right to put things on the agenda once a month. Because if it wasn't so sure, we'd never be discussing these proposals, and I can't accept the explanations that this just happened to end in the late hours. Well, colleagues and colleagues, just two weeks ago, we could be done at 2:00 in the afternoon with discussions, and now suddenly we're staying late, late in the evening. Well, I guess the government didn't think of 12 months to get some work done.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24963	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24964	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Hajdukovic. So, I don't remember very long, so like some long parliamentary representatives, I've been a Parliamentarian since the '90s. But what I must tell you is that it has been an amendment to the Rules of Procedure which, by amending the Rules of Procedure, has been allowed to place certain points of opposition on the agenda. And it was voted so in the last session of the Parliament. But I'm too old and I'm too much in this world to believe in coincidences. It's no coincidence it's today. My colleague now I don't know if it was the President of the Parliament or the Vice President, since you and I are home from the crown, then let me do this a little bit, he said, like, a lot of debate. So let him take a look at the first item of the agenda as much as it was debated, who was arguing and who was going on forever. So, on purpose, it went into this term, nothing happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24965	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Bulj at the respected representative Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24966	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the fact is that Stožer and Minister Beros lost confidence with the Croatian people with controversial, contradictory, unequal decisions and measures where they urged people to stick to the space measure while Minister Beroš took pictures together and photographed himself in a hug with estrogen stars and posted it on Facebook by blaming young people that those who would do health damage to their elders. So this whole process of measures was contaminated and the trust they had had with their unequal decisions was essentially punishable to farmers who were fertilising their country while calling for elections to be voted. And Prime Minister Plenkovic gave up his hands in the fifth month and the river we beat the Corona virus just to deceive the people, win elections and manipulate the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24967	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24968	Dear colleague, I agree with everything you've said. We talked about it on many occasions. We were talking about double standards, the conflicting decisions of the Staff, that actually politicians have to be an example of other actually our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. But I think this is now after nine months of opportunity for both the Government and the Staff and the Minister and all our colleagues in the ruling option to actually do after what we're looking for, so to explain all the decisions, everything that's been done, to make a clean start, to apologize for what hasn't been done, to admit the mistakes and to move forward with the pandemic because we don't have time. He's too sick, he's too dead, and he has to move on more decisively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24969	In a respected representative, Bencic has a replica of the first respected representative, Tomasevic. Excuse me, Comrade Bencic, what is it? All right, all right, all right, go ahead, go ahead. [[She's an introductor.]] Go ahead. [[I want to get a warning? I won't. Watch out for Sandra to kick you out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24970	Comrade Bencic, you have rightly said that this is not an accident, that such evening terms, even though the very co-chairman now says in the supposed evening term. I don't know what the evening term is supposed to be, is this supposed to prove forensically that it's dinnertime? But this isn't even an evening term, this is a porn term. This is a porn term and it's not an accident then, it's not an accident then. We have delivered the conclusion in early November about how to manage the health crisis, you haven't even put it on the plenary debate, and now you are calling for broad arms because we can even discuss it in this porn term at all, so we should be happy. We don't care what tradition the assembly used to be, we say this isn't normal. And this is not dialogue or listening to opposition the same as it is, colleague Bencic, if you can say anything about how the government is even listening to its scientific advice to be consulted by the Government on how to manage the health crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24971	Thank you. Yeah, first of all, so... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I didn't see any injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24972	Article 238 has been injured, so I don't think it's appropriate to talk about pornography in the Croatian Parliament, I think this is a good time because in the morning people work, now they can watch us and hear what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24973	Right where? On YouTube.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24974	My dear fellow Uncle, you know you've received a warning because this isn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure. And I'll have a little bit of a different attitude than the president had, and I'll strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, who will be harmed by the Rules of Procedure will receive punishment, warning, second warning and confiscation until the end of the debate. I'm announcing this in advance, so I'm asking you nicely not to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. We can discuss it by morning if you want, we have replicas, we have opportunities for individual speech and everything, but we stick to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, sir, but I'd like to introduce you to the esteemed representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24975	Thank you. So, first of all, I'm going to answer something. It is evident that the debates have been made so that they are not transmitted on HTV 4 because they are otherwise transferring debates of the assembly until some afternoon when they stop. Journalists called us all afternoon to question, to get involved in the debate, however, when they saw that it would pass the journal's terms, of course they didn't, either. We are not saying this because it would be right or justice, but because it is a matter of public interest. If this topic is not assessed as a subject of public interest concerning absolutely every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I do not know what else it would be. But I'm gonna say something and I'm gonna answer something about scientists. 5 of the best scientists in the scientific council were fired or expelled from the scientific advice because they opposed this model of crisis management, which we are talking about already. Two months. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24976	The next replica of the respected representative Bencic is, will be of the respected representative Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24977	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues Bencic, discussing this topic in these late night hours is not a humiliation and demeaning of the opposition but of our citizens. All of this happens on the day we have 4,620 newly infected and newly infected. This all proves that the situation has escalated and out of control. It would be logical for this Croatian Parliament to discuss in some order of priorities. This should be topic number one, in any case, much more important than the debate on aquaculture. A capable and responsible leadership can recognize priorities, but it can also recognize what doctors say in protests, what HUBOL says, what scientists said in their appeal. To listen to them would mean that we do not have a prime minister who began to rule this country in an authoritative way. They wouldn't forgive him if he managed well. The way he began to lead this country is extremely destructive and this opposition will end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24978	Thank you. Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24979	Thank you. So that I would agree with the assessment that what changed crucially in the crisis management model between that first wave that we had in the spring and this one that we had right now was just on the one hand we really had a less vulnerable to political opportunity by some point and it was really public trust, so here I will say on my behalf, at the beginning of that crisis it was really high and actually I, as someone who was constantly opposed to HDZ, was satisfied with the way in the first wave of this crisis and really trusted what was being said. Later on, these different concessions that were working on the pressures of certain interest groups were diluted, and now it has actually become a charade where we do not actually trust at all in the crisis management model but are no longer managed by it. The Watch Tower Bible — The Bible’s Viewpoint which actually represents now already a disaster. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24980	Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Minister of Health Willy Berosh. He hasn't even come out yet, who knows what he's gonna say, you might like him very much, you might like him very much. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24981	Dear MPs and MPs, here's an apology for this leprosy voice, I'm guessing it's the result of some late Covida. I'll tell you a few words and according to what one of you said I believe it will sound like a positive thing I don't want to mention commendation, but from everything we've done in the preparation of the health system for this threat. Therefore, given the launch of an interpretation of the government's work on the preparation of the health system for the special circumstances of the coronary virus crisis, which has been launched by 16 MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I will inform you of the prepared activities that this government and Prime Minister Plenkovic have undertaken in response to this global threat. As stated in the report, Croatia began to implement epidemiological and other measures aimed at curbing the spread of this infection even before the virus appears in the EU. For 10 months now, the government's session has started with messages on the importance of adherence to all measures adopted and the Croatian public is reporting on all the important elements of the dynamics of the spread of this epidemic. In response to the possible threat, the Ministry of Health activated a crisis group of the Ministry of Health on 27 January 2020, which carried out all initial coordination activities of involved stakeholders such as border police, civil protection, the State Inspectorate and the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency, preparing for the arrival of the virus in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that you remember then 5 of those defence phases since the arrival of the Covid-19 virus, which first included preventing virus entry, then the second phase included effects to prevent the spread of the virus and to prevent individual cases, the third stage is to prevent transmission and free spread of the virus, so that there were already certain stages of prevention of spread of infection. When the circumstances of the crisis exceeded the frameworks of possible action of the Health Crisis Centre, at the request of the same government, the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia activated on 20 February which since 19 March made more than 240 decisions for both the territory of Croatia and for the area of individual counties or individual units of local self-government, and the Constitutional Court adopted a clear position on 14 September 2020 that both the work and decisions of the headquarters are in line with the Constitution. With primary and constant care for the preservation of health and life and for the prevention of the spread of disease, the headquarters also bear in mind the impact of every decision on the Croatian economy and made optimal decisions and held a series of meetings with representatives of economic associations. A well-organised and functional civil protection system has provided full logistics support to the health system. Furthermore, as you witness the amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases of April 2020, an appropriate model of crisis management in the event of a pandemic, i.e. a national epidemic under which the Civil Protection Staff acts and decides in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the HZJZ. The measures implemented in accordance with the principles of efficiency and proportionality at the same time strictly correspond to the needs of the given moment and only persist as long as the circumstances so require that the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and rights of citizens at all times should only be limited to the extent necessary and which corresponds to the nature of the need for their restriction and we are extremely concerned about it. On 17 March, the government adopted a decision on the acquisition and use of goods of strategic commodity stocks in order to implement and safeguard health and strengthen the surveillance of the spread of Covid-19 disease. On the basis of this decision, more than €520 million has been invested to date in the purchase of goods and services for the implementation of health protection measures and the strengthening of control over the spread of the coronal virus. On 10 November, a grant contract was signed for the project Protection and Conservation of the Health System and Public Health through the acquisition of medical and equipment protection in the fight against Covid-19, which provided around 370 million kuna of grants from the European Regional Development Fund of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. Following Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's agreement with Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqian, a total of 7 direct flights were arranged and completed on the line from Shanghai to Zagreb on April 12th, 21st, 23rd, April 25th and 27th and 10th of May 2020. In this way, a total of 455.33 tonnes of goods were delivered. In total, 3 transports of goods were arranged and carried out through regular shipping lines from Shanghai to Rijeka, which arrived in Rijeka on 18 May, 26 May and 5 August, bringing 546,43 tonnes of goods to them. Furthermore, as the government’s official websites for timely and accurate information on the coronary virus were launched on 17 March, a portal of the coronary virus HR, aimed at providing the public with daily, up-to-date, exhaustive and credible information on the Aaron virus epidemic in Croatia. On 14 April 2020, the public presented the application of Andrija, the first digital assistant to assist artificial intelligence in the fight against the crown of a virus whose services are used by 87,810 users on 27 November 2020 and are responsible for more than 1.1 million citizens' questions. On 27 July, Croatia launched and applied Stop Covid in line with the European Commission's recommendation of 7 April on a common Union package of measures for the use of technology and data in order to combat and overcome the Covid-19 disease crisis using anonymous mobility data, which was voluntarily accessed by 78,000 users by the beginning of December. When the European Commission created the EU Federation Accession Croatia as the 7th EU country established a cross-border exchange of data with the official application of other EU member states on 17 November. The Ministry of Health, on the basis of the decisions and measures taken by the Ministry of Health and the Civil Protection Department of the Republic of Croatia, shall, in accordance with the recommendations of the Croatian Ministry of Health, continue to provide instructions on the organisation of the smooth provision of healthcare. We also implemented a health system reorganisation in order to provide hospital and other facilities for the treatment of Covid-19 disease at the primary and secondary level of health care. The organisation of the work of healthcare professionals has been set up to increase their availability through their temporary schedules from home health institutions to medical institutions where there is a need for them. The necessary equipment, primarily respirators and fans are provided to ensure that patients continue to be provided optimally and continuously in accordance with the epidemiological situation. In 62 hospitals in the healthcare system, the total capacity of hospital beds is 23,597 of which is currently 3,599 beds are intended for the treatment of Covid patients which accounts for 15.25% of the total number. This number may be increased where necessary depending on the development of the epidemiological situation. We paid particular attention to the retention of optimal hospital facilities for the treatment of other diseases. Especially the work and cardiovascular diseases as the most common causes of disease and mortality in our population. On 19 March 2012, primary respiratory intensive centres were established for the treatment of patients with Covid-19 disease and KB Dubrava, KBC Rijeka, KBC Split, KBC Osijek for the reception of patients with the most severe symptoms of this disease. Such a temporary protection organisation allows maximum effectiveness of the healthcare system and prevents contact of Covid patients with other patients and healthcare professionals not involved in their treatment. In addition, activities related to the temporary schedules of healthcare professionals from home health institutions have been carried out and carried out in which there is a need to ensure that patients continue to be provided with optimal and continuous healthcare. As well as in the spring of November 2nd, KB Dubrava as one of the more modern hospitals in technical terms and with a sufficient number of beds is providing exclusively Covid-19 patients, the hospital has adjusted for the needs of the most difficult patients, thanks to Croatian experts and their exceptional contribution. To ensure health care for cancer patients Here's an apology to the fact that I haven't even been part of the activities I could explain to you at this point, but I believe that during further discussion I will succeed anyway. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24982	Thank you very much. This one's come to me. I think everyone who's present is almost in the hall, so let's take it in a row. The first replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin, and forgive Meera Bulja, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24983	Ministers, comment on the correctness of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, we cannot ask him here in the assembly because when we ask him, he answers in a completely different direction, so I expect you to answer. Was it correct before the parliamentary elections for Prime Minister Plenkovic to raise his hands and say we beat the coronary virus to 100kg in it so they caught him. And that's how they used this pandemic to power you. Is that correct? That's the first, while at the same time you were punishing a farmer while pussing his country, while at the same time calling for anyone in self-insulation to go to vote to triba just put on a mask, as you hugged the stars estrad and published selfie. Is that correct and did you lose your trust? And most importantly, I was the first to call you, when you were most popular, that you were responsible for the home for the elderly and the powerless.../incomprehensible/... you kept it, and he was after 15 days... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24984	Thank you. Your Honor, Minister Berosch, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. MP, I think the Prime Minister can answer that request himself and he doesn't need a lawyer. As far as I know, he declared victory in the first half, not in total. It was we who pointed to a second half, or second wave. I don't know why you keep mentioning ester stars in the plural and why you keep mentioning that I put something on Facebook. That's just not true. It would have been better if I hadn't taken my picture back then, but as I said before, there was a family reunion that resulted in that picture. I think I could have gone without it, but in a context where the number of newly ill people was not great, in a context where many foreign tourists came to the Republic of Croatia and enjoyed our beauty, it didn't seem so bad at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24986	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24987	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, with respect that as much as I can see for you right now, it's not very good, thank you for being here, but I must ask you to answer one question specifically. Is it time today, when in Croatia we have the largest number of people infected since the start of the crisis to finally replace the verse with a strategy? And I'm going to ask you specifically, is it time to finally follow the recommendation of the government's scientific advice from October 14th of this year and start using the traffic light method in Croatia? For those who do not know, this is the method in which certain measures to combat disease relate to concrete objective indicators about the increase in the number of patients in Croatia. So is it time for the light method?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24988	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24989	Thank you. Since the first day of responding to this crisis, the Honorable Mr. Parliamentarian has been leading the Republic of Croatia's response. They are aware of the existence of a traffic light method, however, in their thinking the method was not a method of choice. What is our choice of daily evaluation of the epidemiological state of the Republic of Croatia and the adoption of measures according to the same. In fact, if we look at countries in the environment, we can see that some countries had a light method, but still and after a tighter lockdown, they don't have good results. Therefore, there is absolutely an option for a traffic light method, but our epidemiological waist was not determined according to this method but according to the method of daily, daily evaluation of epidemiological dreams and the adoption of measures in relation to the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24990	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24991	In this way, the Ministers of the Coronary's epidemic has certainly been the biggest crisis since the Homeland War, and it is normal for all institutions and services to be involved in its repression. Among other things, the Croatian army is involved by setting up tents at hospitals. Since we are witnessing today a series of inscriptions that are a little bit in the negative context, I'm asking you for your first answer. Did one single person sleep or sleep for 1, 2, 3 days in a tent? Secondly, this submission was signed by only 16 MPs of 75. 59 opposition deputies did not sign this submission, or we can talk about 79% and almost 80% of opposition deputies did not sign this. Do you think that 80% of the opposition MPs feel that the government and headquarters are doing well?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24992	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24993	Thank you. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, setting up a tent of the Croatian Army near certain health institutions is our plan to prepare for much worse scenarios. From the beginning, we're saying that we want to be one step ahead of this threat, and these tents that some of the springs at these locations were not filled for good luck until today. According to my knowledge of all these tents, there was only one patient in ten hours who was waiting for a transfer to another medical facility. So much for that. With regard to the initiative of parliamentary representatives, I am of the opinion that the initiative and the smaller number need to be respected, criticism should be heard because you can learn a lot from criticism. However, the fact is that it is constantly talking about some kind of mistrust of the Croatian public towards the headquarters. I don't know what the evaluations are and what the polls are. I don't have time to follow them, but my associates tell me that the Croatian public still believes The headquarters and our measures. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24994	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, epidemiologists around the world are trying to prevent the infected from coming into contact with healthy people. My colleagues and colleagues on this side have proposed other models such as Sweden, the Swedish prime minister said on November 22nd that the Swedish experiment had failed, and I don't know what would have happened to Tennell in Croatia would have been stoned or lynched as it is done in some back countries. Germany is also highlighted as an example, and also advocating changes, I will only mention that in 2020, Germany was in charge of the economy in this time of the Covid epidemic of 160 billion Euros. These colleagues and colleagues, from opposition ranks, they just seem to me to advocate chaos for breach of trust in Croatian institutions and in the first Part of the sentence is looking for a lockdown and the police watch [[Thank you very much.]] In others, they demand full legalization so that everyone can work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24996	Thank you very much. The answer of the Honorable Minister Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24997	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. MP, I don't want to evaluate our earlier proposals both these and those. What is absolutely certain is that the headquarters has been implementing the same policy from the beginning. Someone's saying the answer in the first wave, the answer in the second wave. We're the same people who work the same way, we believe in the profession, and we evaluate from day to day epidemiological data. So from the beginning, we've been doing what's in line with the threat. The absolutely Swedish model as such was not considered in the Republic of Croatia because it contributes to the spread of the virus, contributes to increased mortality. However, the fact is that in the psychological approach that you know best about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia has come especially after summer months in which this tension and fear have yielded to a certain easing which, along with all the elements that have contributed, this winter time, the cold conditions, staying indoors, less airing, has contributed to a stronger expansion of this infection. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24998	The next is a replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u24999	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, can you tell me how many of your fellow doctors, nurses, medical staff in Croatia are currently taking care of the Skuffanders, in their services to all the hospitalized Croatian citizens and those who are ill with Covida-19? And in doing so, Mr. Ministers do not seek the light stage, do not ask for 4 Croatian television programs to be there and to monitor their work, unlike our colleagues from the opposition who do not care about them, it is important to them whether they will love their picture on the same 4th program of Croatian television. Whether we are discussing at 10 in the morning and 10 in the evening, the work of headquarters will not change, and the truth is that Croatian citizens are the most trusted by all institutions at this time. 30% of Croatian citizens, according to the latest survey, say the headquarters is doing great, and 38 of them are asking you to step up the measures further. Just keep going and keep going. The Croats will still trust you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25000	The answer of the Honorable Minister Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, at this time 2,754 hospitalized, this is an extremely large number of Covid-19 positive patients whose Croatian healthcare system is responding adequately at this time. Therefore, from this place I cannot say anything but thank you to all health care professionals, doctors, nurses, health care professionals who are making enormous efforts to treat this serious disease. Thank them very much. And of course we will continue to evaluate all those measures from day to day the possibility of error. However, we are primarily guided by the profession and epidemiological elements.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25002	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25003	Thank you. Dear Minister, I think it is very bad that the Government has not filed a report on the work of headquarters means almost 9 months to the Croatian Assembly, but what will be my question to you, you know that by the government's decision to purchase goods and services to combat the crown of the virus is excluded from the application of the Public Procurement Act. I don't know why, I think I can understand at first, given that there was, that there was a lack of that protective mask equipment and everything I think is now a situation on the market stabilised, that there's no need for that, and I can express a certain sceptical why that decision still exists, why is that decision in force and when such a decision will be lifted? We have made one conclusion to the government that we ask that this decision be abolished in order for this process to be much more transparent, but also for you to submit a report on the purchase of equipment through this time while the information was secret.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25004	Before I do, Minister, before I answer, I must give you the word of the esteemed representative of the Glamuzin who gave you the violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25005	Thank you, Chairman. On one occasion, Article 238 states that a representative must not, during the hearing, interfere with his attacks or otherwise, with the speaker and also writes with his behaviour, act against the general rules of conduct in the assembly. I really think, you correct me if I'm wrong, that ringing your cell phone and talking to your cell phone is a distraction to the work of the assembly and every speaker. You may find it strange because you did it yourself yesterday, but I don't think it's the subject of debate at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25006	Yes, of course this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know it yourself, you get a warning, and as far as your cell phone is concerned, I'm going to decide that I'm not using my cell phone at all when you all do it. When you all do, I'll do it. Some MPs are constantly on their cell phones, and I don't think it interferes with other MPs at all. I don't see the problem, but if you see, let's all make a deal and no one's gonna use the phone, I'm the first one to do it. Here you go, Mr. Minister. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25007	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You gave me a warning, and you didn't tell me that I didn't do it in accordance with Article 238 when I quoted exactly which part was injured. A cell phone that rings loud, and when it's spoken to, it's not the same as I hold it in my hand and it doesn't interfere with anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25008	Okay, now, on the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words. It's a theoretical matter at the moment, but the third warning is until the end of the debate on this subject. And now you have two warnings. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Parliamentarian, the procurement of protective equipment is of crucial importance in the fight against this epidemic. Every day, dozens of copies of protection departments, masks, gloves, and everything else are spent. The supply of such equipment must be both continuous and continuous. Supply chains around the world have been disrupted, however, what has been done in the framework of the government's efforts to obtain equipment is very transparent and has been available for months on the Ministry of Economy's website where you can see in detail, when what is available in what quantities. All this equipment was a necessary need, needed in response to this crisis, and you remember those initial problems when, thanks to certain donations, we solved certain situations. Also, there are certain direct ones, as I read in the report on the ways of supplying goods from China, and the fastest way is this. Namely, any public procurement due to the possibility... can be significantly prolonged, but everything is transparently shown. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25010	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25011	Thank you. My colleague Bačić, no one loves a picture as much as you and HDZ on HRT. And to you, Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25012	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You don't talk to a colleague of Bačić, you give a replica to a minister, he's called Berosch as far as I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25013	So, give me back my time. How about a fresh start?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25014	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25015	So, dear ministers, in the report you stated that you had been overseeing the KB of Dubrava and you said you had failed to identify major irregularities, but there was a double management, and without clearly defined responsibilities, there was a failure in the organisation of the work. Didn't that just happen to you? On page 5, you are saying that the Civil Protection Headquarters was given the authority to obtain goods and services and distribute them to end-users, but at the same time on page 15, you are saying that the crisis center established within the Ministry of Health in April provided instructions for distribution of protective equipment to healthcare providers. So, I'm talking about a parallel management system and parallel powers on the distribution of health supplies by the Civil Protection Headquarters, on the one hand, on the other hand, the Health Ministry's crisis headquarters of the 15th report, contradictoryly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25016	Your Honor, Minister Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25017	Thank you. Dear Madam Parliamentary MPs, yes, there has indeed been a dual system of management of the KB Dubrava because the current former leadership did not fully implement those measures and those instructions received from the Ministry of Health. I'm talking about dual management in Dubrava. Furthermore, when it comes to supplying security equipment, I do not see that there was any problem in the KB Dubrava and that there was no problem in dual management. Therefore, the Ministry of Health at the request of certain health institutions approves certain medical equipment. The Civil Protection and Civil Protection Centre also supplies it as such and distributes it. So I don't see any dualism and contention and problems in the supply of protective equipment, because supply wasn't even a problem in Dubrava. So I don't see a link between those two elements.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25018	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25019	Minister Beroš, do you agree with counterpart Bacic, who says, quotes that 30% of even citizens have confidence in headquarters compared to all other institutions the most. I saw a week ago research makes me the Institute of Social Research who says that from 1 to 10 on the scale trust in the headquarters of Croatia have 3.95 which is indeed more than the Government to which they give 3,03 on a scale of 1 to 10 three. So do you think that's good? Do you think, please don't come in on me? [[Intruder: Please not from the bench.]] So do you think it's good enough that in a health crisis like this, it gets 4, so how much do they get in other countries? [[Intruder: Please do not from the bench.]] Well, it seems to me that what's said is what's smart and you know how it goes on, so it's not good enough, so it doesn't matter what's better than the government that has three, so we're not in power, so I'd be ashamed of it. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25020	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25021	Thank you. I don't have too much time to monitor the polls, but my associates report me here and there, and apparently there are more different sources. You're the one who points to that trust ratio to headquarters. However, I am told that there are other polls that point to a significantly higher level of confidence in the headquarters. In any case, the headquarters is trying to work to improve the epidemiological situation by introducing those measures that are appropriate and adequate. This is our purpose and purpose, and what if citizens recognize how good our measures are is just some extra benefit. So, let's not look back at any positive consideration, the goal is to hit measures and prevent the spread of this viral disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25022	The next replica is the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25023	Dear Ministers, you told us here that the profession has decided on this model of crisis management and, among other things, that we have no traffic lights but to react from day to day. Now, I'm interested in who this profession is, because the profession that has proposed a different solution has been removed from the scientific council, so the five members of the council that it has proposed amongst other things and the introduction of the traffic lights you've thrown out, so of course you can't even have a different choice of profession because when that profession is to throw them out of the body they are in. And now I'm wondering if you support the Prime Minister's decision and don't accidentally tell me that it was decided by someone who runs the Prime Minister's office, because he decided to throw out those five scientists, top-notch top-of-the-art scientific from the scientific council that advises you, and you need help in the management of the crisis? Do you agree with the Prime Minister's decision?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25024	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Assembly MPs, the Croatian epidemiological profession, director of the Institute of Public Health, his assistants, the most important associates who are representatives of the European Associations of Epidemiologists have been the ones who have been leading the main word since the beginning of this threat. The scientific advice is another story. Most scientists in scientific advice are neither infectologists nor epidemiologists, nor those dealing with viral diseases. Their opinion is extremely important and adequate, however they are not engaged in a narrow profession in this regard. The scientific advice is as the name tells him, advised. We have to struggle on a daily basis with the fact that we have to make decisions that have a direct implications for the health of Croatian citizens, for life support. Croatian citizens. [[Intruder: Don't from the bench, please colleagues Bencic.]] And such conclusions and such measures are made exclusively in the opinion of the profession. Just one element where I acted past the expert opinion, which is when I, as minister, gave instructions to set up special centres, so I tried to keep the profession going. something that's the only element in my course of action where I went beyond the scope of the profession. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25026	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25027	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, you are an extremely decent man and you have now apologized because you have failed in this time to present everything that the headquarters does and what you think is necessary to meet especially the proponents of this interpretation, but of course as much as you have said because you have had the opportunity and we all hear in these few days it is all in vain because our opposition has taken a firm stand to degrade all successful work of headquarters and government. You certainly did well in the first wave when there was little knowledge of the virus, when there was no equipment, when there was no knowledge of the efficiency of certain measures, and of course this second wave not only affected Croatia but also of these countries that are constantly being called upon. But that's not the problem. The problem is, they want to vote 2/3 of the majority. Who forbids them to support measures, so I can always do it now and now this opportunity, yes. In the next lines, I'll do more. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25028	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25029	Dear Madam Assembly MPs, I would agree with your findings. In fact, many countries are actually trying to cope with the emerging situation, trying to find an answer to preventing the spread of the epidemic. We have examples of countries that have introduced harder, more restrictive measures, no good indicators. I honestly and personally believe that restrictive measures can prevent the spread of the virus, but what is important is that balance between measures that allow for the preservation of health, between measures that enable economic activity to be maintained. That balance is essential. And just by respecting economists from different aspects, we're trying to come up with a solution that gives the best results because it's all about finding an adequate epidemiological model, all you have to do is look and work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25030	The next replica of the respected representative, Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25031	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you recently said that given the exceptional working conditions you are proposing a reward, 10% of the salary to all those who directly deal with Covida-19 patients, they are made by workers who provide care for the people who are suffering from the coronary virus. That's where you added those who work in prisons, penitentiaries, which is fine. Now, I'm asking you, do you think that 10% is enough, will you include doctors, nurses, technicians, maids, nurses who are exposed and self-inflicted and make additional efforts and in non-Covid departments where virus breach also occurs, also applies to employees and in homes for older and powerless? In addition, doctors offer you a degree in financial supplements for all doctors, so without exception, depending on whether anyone in the intensive treatment unit works, whether they work in Covid, not the Covid department, the O.R. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25032	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25033	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Parliamentarian, I was just amazed by your statement in the introduction when you said that we inadequately increased our salaries to healthcare professionals. It's just not true. So we've been looking for an optimal model for a long time and he's been found in a 10% formula for everyone on the payroll. This salary includes working hours and the coefficient of complexity of jobs. Therefore, not all will receive the same reward, but it depends on those jobs they do. And further, in answer to your second part of the question, everyone will get a salary supplement, so doctors and nurses and maids and unhealthy staff. So, all those in contact with covid-19 positive patients. There were other proposals, however, given the complexity of the story, given collective agreements and trade union involvement, this was found as an optimal model at the moment. And if you ask me, I think it's 10% and small. However, at this point in time, given the circumstances of filling the state budget, it is realistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25034	The next replica is a respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25035	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, the opposition wishes to show here that the system is not organised, that the situation is chaotic and therefore calls the government, the resolution ministry and you personally. I would like to point out one example here, so that colleagues and colleagues, and our public knows how the system works. For example, about ten days ago at the Sibenik-Knin County General Hospital, they thought that with available respirators, it would be good to have two other respirators in place. In the morning at 7.45 a.m., the principal sent an e-mail to the ministry showing the need for two respirators. At 8.30 means after an hour, the minister himself called the mayor, confirmed that two respirators would come and they were indeed already at the Sibenik-Knin hospital in the next day. Also, on a weekly basis, data are also required and how many antivirals are available, whether containers, tents, etc. are to be delivered and everything is delivered and therefore I thank you immensely and all the praises of the way you function. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25036	Thank you very much. The answer of the Honorable Minister Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25037	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Parliamentarian, Sibenik is only one example. No mayor I haven't talked to, no hospital I haven't talked to. We've distributed a series of new respirators and fans, we're exchanging a health tub on a daily basis. Here's yesterday I found eight interns at the Chakovez Hospital where there was an internal breakdown due to a covid positive infection. So this part of our answer strategy that exists. At some point when everything is behind us we will publish a strategy of answers, Croatian answers, Croatian response models both on the first wave and on the second wave. But believe me, everything that's going on isn't the result of the stychical thinking, but of strategic thinking and of knowing where this story is going. Viewing the possibility of the virus and the increased number of patients therefore also tents, therefore the distribution of staff and medical technical equipment. It's our way of responding to this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25038	The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25039	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I support you today as well as 25.2. and before that because you're doing your job well. As you hunt here, I see the last of your breath, no, they don't care what you say to them. You didn't even lift yourself up. You've already had three, four replicas. So they said in advance we care what you say, we already know what we're gonna say. They accuse us daily of both us and you and the Staff, all government and anyone who bothers them because it's their only job to dig and undermine every effort of this government so they don't matter to themselves. And what kind of strategists are we talking about? Look at what they've turned into. What's the matter with them? They're looking for an interpretation, they're talking about an appointment, and they're talking about who the phone's ringing. That's their reach. And they know five days when there will be a debate, and they've decided to talk five hours today about two articles of the law. Two hours on the other two articles of the law. When the evening comes they say it's your fault, you didn't know anything. That's how they knew before. That's how they'll talk to you every day. It's up to us. We are responsible for managing this situation as you are, and explain to them what is happening in Germany and Slovakia to understand certain things. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25040	Thank you. Your Honor, Minister Berosch, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25041	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, so here I will use the answer to your inquiry and replica in a way that we can explain what I couldn't initially, which is our way of responding to this threat and this is a centralised approach to treating covid-19 positive patients in regional primary intensive-respiratory centres. This is not just a decision made but a very thoughtful decision to allow all other health institutions to treat covid-19 negative patients. So it's the only way to preserve health care facilities as long as possible from breaking into the same one. This has proved to be an optimal model of health care throughout Europe, and we are happy that in time we recognized the same and enabled in the Republic of Croatia to form such primary intensive and respiratory centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25042	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25043	Dear Minister, I am not going to repeat today whether the system works or not, this is what Croatian citizens see as how it works. I'll show myself to something you said. He says, you believe in the profession, and at the same time you fired epidemiologists from the Health Council, and with these epidemiologists working on some of these projects that you've boasted here a little while ago. You respect doctors, but you pay them less, you make it up to them. This means only that you did not think about what you should have done systematically and on the basis of which the profession you take measures we saw on TV the other day when it was published what Croatian citizens in the survey say what measures should be taken. And after that, this government took those measures. But I have one more question from that replica from today morning. You said that in certain organizations the work of certain health units is not in your jurisdiction. And whose authority are they in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25044	Thank you. Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25045	Thank you. So, when it comes to wages, we announced the possibility of automatic salary accounting in the Central Payments Account being adjusted to realistically calculated time. We recognized that, and we announced a cost-refunding time. Secondly, the ingenuity of the functioning of health institutions is in the hands of directors and boards of directors and particularly county institutions that are in county ownership. I, as Minister, have a duty to monitor the functioning of healthcare if I notice that something is wrong to intervene. And that's what I told you to do on a daily basis. However, directors are legally responsible for the establishment and functioning of health care in certain health institutions. 63 of them are in the Republic of Croatia. They're all different, all with different conditions, activities, number of employees. Therefore, only the directors selected can manage this system. And I'm sorry that he was... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25046	The next replica is the esteemed Glamuzine MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25047	Thank you very much. Are you sure? Your Honor, I'm going to ask you for one clarification, given that you mentioned the proportionate measures that the Chief of Staff is taking. It's not perfectly clear to me if the measures are being taken in relation to the situation that it's going on, how in the spring when we counted cases of infection in hundreds, we had a proportionate measure of lockdown total economy, education. No one was going anywhere, there was a distance under the musk, and that was the way the Command recommended as a fight against the pandemic COVID. Now that we're talking about thousands of people going to school, and the new law that we recently passed is a regulation of masks, keeping a distance, somewhere you're missing or then or now? When?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25048	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25049	Thank you, Madam Parliamentarian. We're comparing incomparable. In the spring wave, we didn't know where the thing was going. There was a new virus, a new disease without knowing the severity of the clinical image, about the number of deaths. Now you can see how much the winter is a clinical picture more difficult, how many more deaths we have, and the circumstances of the spread of the virus are the same. He's still around us just now spreading horizontally. So at that moment, in accordance with our knowledge, our professional thinking, we gave our experience the same answer, and today in the second wave, just on the basis of these experiences and other facts that we have learned in the meantime about this virus and the way it spread, and the impact on the economy, which is equally important, we are taking other measures that we are trying to be appropriate, to be adequate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25050	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25051	Minister Beroš, we see that our country's difficult position is related to the coronary virus, so I was only interested in what data led Prime Minister Plenkovic to declare victory over the coronary virus six months before the parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25052	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25053	Thank you. Dear Mr. Parliamentarian, as far as I can tell, he declared victory in the first half of the day, based on the epidemiological data that was present at that time. You know yourself that during June we had one period when we had no new infections. Only later in the 7th and 8th months probably because of tourism and other activities began to spread the virus, which was intensified by the arrival of autumn and colder times and other already mentioned circumstances. Therefore, this was the reason for the current epidemiological element by stressing all together the possibility of a second wave and the possible strengthening of the epidemic at the 9th month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25054	The next replica is the respected representative Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25055	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Here's what I don't remember about the government's interpretation anymore. 16 signatures, when there's a vote, there's no opposition. 40 votes, I believe, will be the same for this interpretation. The main objections we hear are the time of this debate and so you should report more to them. So maybe the best thing to do is to raise the tent here, be with us all day instead of fighting COVID equally successfully and further. What you should say anyway is there's no magic wand. And developed countries were in lockdown. Now, in the winter when the clinical situation is more difficult, it doesn't seem to work. We have balanced measures. We've got enough gear. No doctor had to choose in Croatia who would go to the respirator. Many more developed countries had to. And what you do well goes on and on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25056	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, from day one, the strategy of the Civil Protection Staff has been transparent, true, clear communication with the public. The stakes are too high. The role is the health of Croatian citizens. How else do you communicate this not only with political options, but with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but clearly and transparently? Now someone thinks that in the 21st century, we can hide something at the time of informing about the number of dead, the number of sick, the number of hospitalized? Well, that's just not possible. We're the most transparent we can be and hide nothing. We also publicly communicate our actions. Yes, I agree that some countries have introduced a traffic light. However, the decision of our profession was not so. I don't see that that's a mistake. A team more because those who introduced the traffic lights don't have better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25058	The next replica is respected MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25059	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister Beroš, through September, October and November when you had much better knowledge of the virus as you have now said you were well managed by the crisis. You even said that more restrictive measures, stronger measures might be counterproductive. You've been giving yourself a commendation. You've brought praise to both the government and the headquarters. But a few days ago, exactly 7. 12. You said that Croatia is the worst in Europe at the incidence of 100,000 inhabitants. Can you explain how it happened if you were through September, October and November when you had much better knowledge once again, you said it yourself, well managed by the crisis? Is it the virus or are it the citizens you have on several occasions called responsible for the spread of the virus or the guilt lies on the inconsistency of the Civil Protection Headquarters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25060	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25061	Thank you. Dear Madam Parliamentarian, the truth is as always in the middle. So we know more about the virus, and we've adapted that knowledge to measures. However, it is obvious that the virus is spreading in a different way in times of colder weather, longer stays in closed spaces. We couldn't predict so much horizontal spread of the virus in the family then, we simply couldn't, nor could anyone in Europe and the world do it. So these are new circumstances and no one is happy with these numbers, but they are who they are, but as an example, I quote to you other countries that have introduced and more stringent measures, but they don't have much better results, and already a long enough period has passed since the introduction of them. Although I personally believe that restrictions can prevent the spread of the virus, we see that it's not always the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25062	Please, let's not leave the scene. You're getting a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Begonj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25063	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I hope that this will continue to work well, in the introduction of all praise for the work of the headquarters so far. Today, the professional public and our citizens know more about the virus than at the very beginning in February or March. Today we have enough protective equipment and disinfectants, more than we had at the beginning of the first wave. However, even when we had a lack of all this health care system worked, citizens had health care. Please comment on the difficulties of supplying the necessary protective equipment and could you get that equipment, could the funds ensure that we are not an EU member? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25064	Thank you. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, since the beginning of this threat, given that the world was not ready for it, there have been problems in providing health care systems and other systems with protective equipment. Fortunately with certain channels and reflections we have opened these paths that we are using today, which is essential because only with adequate equipment protection can we treat Covid-19 positive patients. And what is of paramount importance is the preparation of the health system. I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow and how many newly infected and hospitalized they will be, but we've done everything we can to provide the health care system and to prepare it in human resources and materially technical scale for the threat that's greater than this one. And what's gonna be is none of us know. However, our task is to prepare for worse scenarios.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25065	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25066	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, and most recently, most often by opposition representatives, I would say parts of the media, is mentioned by Mr. Đikic, a scientist. The whole time, therefore, is mentioned and the opposition to his statements is called here, his interviews, his so-called statements in the media. So here's what Mr. Djikic said, for example, on May 30th of this year, I quote: "The second wave of crowns will not be so dangerous." Then one would say Kopernikanski already on October 9th of this year, Mr. Djikic says, "It is normal that this is the beginning of the second wave, it is normal that the figures will grow and grow even more. Well, I would say that this is a little contradictory, and just now, colleague Ahmetovic mentioned something about contradiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25067	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I now apologize to all those who have asked me on the subject, not that I deliberately did not answer the question of scientific advice, but I really do not think anyone has been expelled from the scientific advice, and I really believe that all those who are well-intentioned and continue to participate in the work of the same because the interest of Croatian citizens must be absolutely prejudicial. So, one who, for some of his personal reasons or for being offended, doesn't want to continue to participate in the work of the same person, I don't think he respects the legality of scientific alignment and arguments. So that's essential. Therefore, I think that all those who honestly participated in the work of the same, and especially those who deal with the profession, so those who are epidemiologists, infectologists, virologists, those who deal with the rope of epidemics, so you have a lot to say and we have to listen to them, from them we need to learn what the meaning of health advice is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25069	The next replica is the respected representatives of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25070	Dear Mr. Minister, you could actually hear here several times tonight that some members of the prime minister's scientific council have been expelled. I don't have that information, and there's no such information in the media. Can you explain precisely whether these people have been expelled from the scientific advice or not? That we know it here now. You must know that since you're hanging out, you're in the government all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25071	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25072	Thank you. Dear Madam Parliamentarians, according to my knowledge, no one has been expelled and has thanked everyone for their cooperation and has asked everyone to continue to participate. So I may not have been informed until the end, but according to my knowledge, no one has, especially not been expelled. Those are hard words from scientific advice. All those who have so far participated in the work of the same, who have invested their time, thinking, knowledge, suggestion of certain measures, should be grateful. Be assured that both in the government and in the headquarters, we respected the different opinions that of course exist. However, scientists and doctors most often consider one aspect of thinking, but the picture is a little wider, picture and economical. So I support that part of the appeal that speaks of the most difficult, restrictive measures that are economically possible, that's the point. So the balance is the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25073	And the last replica of the esteemed MP, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25074	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Beroš, therefore the topic is the Interpelation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the preparation of the health system of the Republic of Croatia on special circumstances caused by the Corona virus. My question to you will be very simple. I'm not going to ask you to evaluate by some school evaluation how you can assess the health system's preparedness, but a simple question. Are you today, when we're almost here, and in half of December, are you satisfied that the health system has been prepared for special circumstances caused by the coronary virus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25075	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Assembly MPs, and I am not too satisfied with the epidemiological results at the moment, but with the health system's readiness, which includes a special organisation of health care, both at the primary and secondary level, I am satisfied. I'm even proud of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25077	Thank you very much, Minister. Now we're going to the representatives' clubs. Here you can go, and the first Club of Representatives will be the HDZ and on behalf of it will be spoken by the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25078	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Listening to today's proposals for this interpretation on the work of the Government for Health Resolution, as well as today's presentation of the position of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr Bernardić simply cannot help but look back and say this, that we have heard one of the most embarrassing and most embarrassing statements in this honorable House today, from whom others than Davor Bernardic. A man comes for this pay phone, answers something, says dead cold and leaves. Mr Bernardić, although he is of course not here and defeating the elections has not taught you the decency to stop telling lies and to deceive the Croatian public by abusing people's lives. While you were relativating the Coronal virus, you were blasting the Command and calling for 400,000 resignations in the Republic of Croatia, we've been caring for human lives ever since the first day. If we had listened to you that you were aware that the pandemic is happening in the world and until you were done with all the failed initiatives under the Constitutional Court, Croatia would have lost many lives, jobs and never had such a tourist season. Fortunately, the Croatian citizens in the vast majority told you not in the elections and left you to spread destruction exclusively out of opposition. The healthcare system has been adapted to a successful response by Croatian health professionals and their exceptional contribution within a very short period of time for the Republic of Croatia to the epidemic, and all anti- epidemic measures carried out have two final objectives, a reduction of mortality and a preservation of the health system from overload. World Health Organization in the beginning of 2020 Report has begun on the occurrence of lung inflammation grouping in China and the world, and according to the epidemiological situation, it is 30. January also declared the epidemic a public health emergency of international importance. This enabled better international coordination of responses to the epidemic in line with the World Health Organisation's binding recommendations, as well as further international mobilisation of financial and human potentials. The Republic of Croatia has been very early in implementation of epidemiological and other measures aimed at curbing the spread of this infection. The epidemic in the Prime Minister's office began to follow another 9. January after World Health confirmed the outbreak of a new coronary virus, and only one day after it was done and shown by the Chinese authorities. The Croatian Institute of Public Health had already prepared informative leaflets about the coronary virus for air passengers in Croatia, English and Chinese, and only a few days later, prevention measures were raised in international airports. The first meeting of the Ministry of Civil Protection of the Republic of Croatia was held in the government with the presence of the Prime Minister in order to raise the level of readiness of all competent authorities and to protect the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. How important personal protective equipment and medical equipment the Ministry of Health could recognize in time. Can you imagine what would have happened if no protective equipment had been secured in time thanks to the government of the Republic of Croatia and personally to Prime Minister Plenkovic. It would be my dear one black, black script. For this, the government signed a grant agreement for a project to protect and preserve the health system and public health and provided us with an EU fund for regional development of 370 million kunas of grants. Even before the outbreak was declared, the health system began to reorganise and adapt to the needs of handling covida-19 positive patients, as well as other patients who needed medical care whether or not they had a chronic disease. This reorganisation was carried out at the primary, secondary and tertiary level of health care. According to the data available by the Ministry of Health, the capacity of hospital beds intended for the treatment of covid patients is 3599 per day in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, according to the epidemiological situation, they can also increase to the number of 25000 we have. Hospital health institutions have increased isolation capacities in combined hospital emergency receptions and stationary departments to be prepared to accept a larger number of new patients. All segments of mental health care in Croatia have adapted extremely well to the new circumstances. Here you can also hear that mental health experts are not involved in the work of the Staff. That's not true. Psychologists, psychiatrists, some sit here and with us, psychologists, psychological chamber and crisis center, the Center for Crisis for Mental Health of the Medical Hospital Center Rebro. A number of projects and programmes of psychiatric institutions and society are being implemented and supported, as regards preventive actions to promote awareness-raising programmes on the importance of anxiety, anxiety conditions, violence prevention programme, suicide prevention programme and burning syndrome prevention programme, etc. So, lies themselves. Based on the decision on the mobilization measures, the Minister of Health continuously ensures the schedule of health workers and medical equipment in line with the development of the epidemiological situation that you could clearly hear from the example set by our colleague Branka. Given the great fluctuation of health care professionals, the recommendations have been made to institutions that they can hire people without obtaining any prior consent and without conducting the competition for 60 days so that as many people as possible can get the jobs we need. It is also recommended that employment in other places such as nurseships, but in accordance with the regulation. Not currently made up by the Minister of Health. It is also instructed all hospitals to increase capacities in central ordering units in a way that allows for additional appointments for those patients who are not COVID patients. The call center at the Department of Health has brought its results. A lot of people spoke to each other and all the problems were solved by those who were waiting for an examination. Now we should talk about the Committee of Professionals for the Use of Medicinal Products and the Treatment of Prophylactics, which produced clear Croatian guidelines for the treatment of COVID patients and delivered to all healthcare professionals in the Republic of Croatia. Something to say in the end about the resistance to the crisis management of the Croatian health system. That's not news that came from this epidemic. Croatian healthcare has been exposed in the past to major organisational, staff and logistics challenges that have contributed to the establishment of institutional crisis management in health. The Health Ministry’s crisis headquarters is a direct successor and legal successor to the Croatian Chief Staff of Sanitation of the Republic of Croatia from the Homeland War as the main operational and organisational body for the management of the health system in crisis. In its original form, it was established on December 19th 1990 for the purpose of co-ordination with military-related activities in the Homeland War. The only period in which the Health Ministry’s Crisis Centre was expelled from the Health Protection Act and thus abolished and absent during the 4 years of the coalition government from 3 January 2000 to 23 November 2003. During that period, the health system experienced a crisis failure in the Baxter affair in October 2001, which no one managed and caused the direct death of 23 people in several Croatian dialysis centres. Following all of the above, the Government and the Ministry of Health, as well as the competent authorities, have prepared this health system in a timely and effective manner for the special circumstances caused by the COVID-19 disease epidemic and are constantly taking care of it and continuously improving it. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will reject the Interpellation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the preparation of the health system on special circumstances caused by the coronary virus, which we hope to show by these displays so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25079	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of the coat of arms has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I see you didn't listen to your esteemed colleague, coat of arms, Bujevic. Because if she had, she would have noticed that at the beginning of her exposure she had hurt Article 238. The rules of procedure harshly assaulting counterpart Bernardic. The words that Mr. Grba Bujevic used were such that you or the President of the Parliament would apologize to me, that President of the Parliament told me for similar words just two days ago not to warn, but to take the word away. Please, if you are already applying strict session management criteria then apply them to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25081	If I were to apply strict criteria, it would seem a little different. But, uh, I don't use them. However, you know very well that here in the Parliament far, far uglier, more dangerously I would say the words came from your side to the other side. There were them on the other side of this side and everything was tolerated. So, so long as there are no boundaries that can't be crossed, I think it's going into free speech. When you can afford some things and tell others, I can tell others about others. You know, that's so, so long as they don't cross the border. I don't think the Rules of Procedure got hurt. Honorable representative of the coat of arms, let's go, no, but I'm pleading to stop the violations of the Rules of Procedure, please. Here you go. [[/The Intruder of the coat of arms of Bujevic: May I?]] Of course you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25082	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, a colleague of the coat of arms injures the same article 238, because all I did was say what was said. I did not insult anyone, but I expressed my view and opinion on it, and all other members of the Croatian Democratic Community Club agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25083	Okay. But it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I must give a warning. I'm asking you nicely now I'm really going to start as my colleague Grbin said to be strict, because I think abusing an institution next to the Rules of Procedure is not good instead of replicas. Now, on behalf of the promoter, an honorary representative of Anka Dark Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25084	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to clear two things up right now. The first thing that was initially said about the term. So we got the term we got. We started arguing in the late evenings and it won't lessen the debate in any way to ask a question, say, and point out the things that we think we should point out. Unfortunately, I feel sorry for all those employees of the Croatian Parliament who have been working here since the early morning hours and the question of when they will work. But as the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament has said, he's ready until early morning to be, and I must say, we're ready, too. The second topic was why 16 MPs signed the interpretation because it was minimal, because there is no need for it to sign more. It was from the debate and from the replicas that you saw that the MPs, whether they signed or didn't sign, were participating and will participate. And let me just say that this is another interpretation. So in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, this is another interpretation. Equally, I will not go back in the distant past, I will return only from the moment that we really met with one great non-man and what we had the opportunity to hear, see what we learned from health care professionals in preparation. So now I want to say a few words about the preparation of the health system. But in a crisis where doctors, nurses, technicians, all other employees of Croatian hospitals were found. They are one word left on their own to cope and fight as they know and can. Although spring has been known to wait for us, doctors and healthcare professionals have not received the necessary useful information that is actually expected of them and what a new way of working will look like. They have not received any additional education and skills they will need to fight the Coronal, nor have anyone made sure to schedule them and coordinate them in time from one central place to be able to do their job effectively. As I was saying at the very moment when this great nemesis I hope will be no more and that we will return and live normally, at the moment when it came I was one of those who truly trusted the Staff. If headquarters had said that every day we had to stand on one leg in front of an open window for 20 minutes, I would have stopped. My trust was lost when Minister Beroš questioned who was responsible for that great mortality in the old and powerless home in Split, he said the virus. Well, if there wasn't a virus, I wouldn't be in my late night class discussing the health system's preparation for this world epidemic. One of the problems that doctors have faced is the fact that many have found themselves in a position to do work for which they are not specialised. And from the crown at this moment we are treated by both gynecologists and pediatricians and psychiatrists and many others. The Law of Medicine clearly states that a doctor with specialization can only work in the field of speciality for which he is trained. True, there are exceptions to those rules. And this is certainly the situation I'm in. But doctors are in doubt about whether they are mobilized, since no state of emergency has been declared. These fears at the end of the line may also be unwarranted but they show that humans were not dealt with and that their mental peace had not been ensured before they went to the ward with covid patients, and I repeat myself for eight months. If this story was over this summer, if we weren't in the second, third, or I don't know which wave we wouldn't be here talking about right now. We had a summer, over the summer, education could be done, even on-line education and organizations could be done. But unfortunately, it wasn't. Simply, doctors point to disorganization, lack of information, lack of tools that they had to be given in time to fight on the front line of the corona battlefield. Many of them are afraid of being sacrificed in some way, pushed into a fire without a extinguisher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25085	We have one replica of the presentation of a respected representative of the Dark-Taritash. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25086	Thank you very much. My colleague Taritas, well in that, is the problem that the minister himself is in Split right after he said it was the virus for the event in the home for the elderly and the powerless, where the former mayor was appointed when he lost the election, Škaričić appointed director of the House for the Elderly and Powerless, who said that for 15 days he had a temperature, older and powerless i.e. The protégés, that only then did he report when the Corona virus entered, and the minister said it was the virus and stepped into his defense. A little while ago, we colleagues and colleagues were listening to MP Bujević, who was also exhibited at the National Headquarters, a woman who called at the time as a member, as a heroine of the nation that masks were not needed and that we do not want to wear them at the time when she was a corona, profiteers when they profited huge money, do not rub masks on anyone. What a mask, what a mask. What's the contradiction, and that's where they lost their trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25087	Dear MPs, Mr. Dark-Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25088	I don't know if I can hear you. Hello!
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25089	I'll talk to you later. We can hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25090	I'm sorry, I had a feeling something was wrong with me. Excuse me. But here's the good news. Today, something about my Internet home is messing with something that's not even weird. So, fellow Bull, what can I tell you? So, with us sits really a colleague who this spring said that masks are not necessary, and here last Friday she raised her hand which, of course, is no wonder that those who will not wear masks properly will be punished. And now you're going to ask why, what kind of explanation is that that's consistent with the knowledge, knowledge, so there somewhere in the third, fourth month of the mask you didn't need. But that's why today when you don't wear your masks properly you'll be punished. So the messages that were supposed to be sent back then should have been sent clear, not confusing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25091	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let me say one extremely important thing. This interpretation is not an interpretation of Croatian healthcare professionals. They're doing their job the best they can. They do it well under very, very difficult conditions. This interpretation is on those who needed to ensure that our healthcare professionals can fight this crisis much better, to provide them with adequate equipment, to provide them with adequate space, adequate resources for work, and that was the task of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that task was not well done. I've prepared this debate in one completely different direction from where I'm going to go, but I have to do this because some of the things the minister said in his presentation just doesn't stand. They're a lie. The minister said measures, stricter measures in other countries have not yielded results. It's a minister's finding. It's a minister's claim, and the figures say the following. Source ECDC European Centre for Disease Prevention. October 29th of this year, the Czech Republic 1500 infected during a 14-day period. Ten. 12th today 535. Three times less. France on 29 October 880, today 230. Four times less. Belgium 1500, today 850. Six times less. Is this an example of measures that do not produce results? No, I don't. This is an example of responsible countries that have done what is necessary to care for their citizens. They didn't run internal elections in HDZ. They were not guided by the daily political needs of Andrej Plenkovic. No, I don't. They took care of their citizens' interests and interests. And how is Croatia in the same period? 29 October 470 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in a 14-day period. Almost 1200 today. Two and a half times that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, can anyone answer me why Belgium, the Czech Republic, France have managed to reduce the number of patients three or more times, and Croatia has not failed, but has increased the number? And please do not lie to me that the reason for this struggle for Croatia's financial well-being and economic recovery is because Eurostat today published data that Croatian citizens of all citizens and citizens in the European Union have experienced the biggest decline in income at the annual level. That colleagues and colleagues, salaries and those working in Croatia have fallen more than anywhere else. Maybe they'll surprise you, and maybe they won't? Most fell to those who have the weakest paid jobs and whose occupations are the most inconsistencies, the least protected. For example, the ones you forgot in the tax reform were the ones most affected in this crisis. And don't get out that the epidemiological measures are this mild for them. No, they're not. They're so kind because you don't have the courage not to say anything simpler, and what you don't have was absolutely necessary in this situation. You can only deal with a crisis of this magnitude if you have courage and something else, and you don't have it. And you can tell us now that we've lost the election. Yes, that's a fact. But you of the citizens got the trust to work, to work, not to watch people die. And you can make damages to the Rules of Procedure, you can make warnings, you can insult us. That's not gonna change this fact. However, if this debate is not only a criticism, although criticism of your work and behaviour is essential, I will also be free to make several very concrete proposals. The first step that needs to be introduced, and this is the introduction of a method so-called method. a traffic lamp which shall be attached to concrete numerical indicators. Why? So that people and the economy can know in advance when something will happen, that people know and citizens know the consequences of their non-compliance, that people simply know and are aware of what they have to do. Then he won't have to punish. Then all they have to do is convince, convince. Second step of education. The education of citizens on measures, not what Mrs. coat of arms did almost nine months ago, where, from me, she explained to all of us that masks were not necessary. And I'm seduced by that claim. And I was convinced we didn't need masks. Did I put someone at risk? I probably did, because Mrs. coat of arms and similars claimed that she didn't need it. Even today, such claims make it difficult for some to explain the usefulness of wearing masks. Answer, we'll punish them. No, it's wrong. Convince, explain as much as it takes. One minute, hours, days spent explaining to people who will raise awareness first of the need to wear masks and then of the vaccination that you also do not do. You don't work enough, so only 50% of the citizens tell us it's ready to vaccinate. It's a disaster. We have to do whatever we can to get that percentage up. The lack of that education leads to this number. It's not the citizens' fault. It's their fault, and I'll go so far as to say it's our fault that we haven't done enough to teach them. An increase in the number of tests. Today, Mrs. Pam Novosel of the Institute of Public Health said: “The problem in Croatia is not whether the measures currently in force are working but in that we do not have the parameters on which to assess it. When you have a situation where you have 30, 35 or even 40% of the test on the coronary virus, it means that the data you collect is not credible enough. Changes will not be detected until Croatia has tested more than 20 or 30 thousand people daily. People should be told that the situation is very serious and that there are no indications that the danger has been reduced."I will quote Mr Plenkovic for a moment on August 15, 2020, "Croatia then beat the coronary virus, and the situation is far less serious." An increase in the number of tests is necessary not only because of detection but also because an increase in the number of tests finds infected and they are quarantined and the disease does not spread further. But unfortunately, that's not the only problem. I was warned that in certain environments, Dalmatia, Slavonia is waiting for the test for 7-8 days. 7-8 days, people are waiting for the test. She wrote about it and Free Dalmatia a few days ago, and I was told by some people who were in that situation. It is inadmissible and creates inequality among the citizens of this country based on where they live. It is not fair that you can come to Zagreb almost immediately, and in Osijek or Split in 7 days. It's not fair, period. Therefore, gentlemen do not need to run away from further stricter measures. Based on the figures I've read to you, it's clear that they produce results, but these measures must be supported by clear reasons, not as in the case of the closure of the cafe that you answer to the Morning List that you didn't have any indication that the cafes are the place where the disease is spreading. They have to be applied to everything equally. It is unacceptable to wait in Osijek for 7 days or for Split, and you can come to Zagreb immediately. The measures must be linked to the occurrence of specific circumstances. That's the concept of traffic lights I've been honking about for days. Finally, measures must be followed by appropriate compensatory measures to help those affected by epidemiological measures. Eurostat today, Croatian citizens have experienced the biggest fall in personal income at the EU-wide level. We ask, please moratorium on top, moratorium on loans, do something, don't hide in the attic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25093	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25094	Thank you very much. A fellow coat of arms injured Article 238 by insulting counterpart Maja Grbu Bujevic and the minister. When we talk about the total number of dead people per million inhabitants of the country that you mentioned in Belgium 1,500, Croatia 500 dead, 3 times more, France 800, Czech Republic 850, and that the traffic light so well worked, Macron introduced it when there were 5,000 infected, now there are 11,500 Frenchmen angry with the fact that the scoreboard is a cobweb. and not flexible enough. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25095	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavić, of course, was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I again appeal to everyone not to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Whether someone here is telling the truth or not, whether they're lying or not, whether they're telling the wrong information is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and it's not mine to judge whether someone's lying or not. Therefore, please, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and do not in future use anyone for this breach of the Rules of Procedure because if a breach of the Rules of Procedure were used to do so, I am afraid that they would be quickly empty. I feel like I'm running the session, and not you, I haven't even given my colleague a warning. For now, I'm still running the session, and you're not gonna throw it at me because you're gonna get a warning. On behalf of the president, the motionary will now speak to the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25096	Thank you, Vice President. I only use my cell phone for my notes because I can't carry the whole laptop.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25097	I don't have a problem with my cell phone. Talk to my colleague Glamuzini.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25098	Okay. First of all, I would like to say that I would not really want this debate to be understood exclusively as a form of criticism of what the headquarters is doing and what everyone else is doing. And it's absolutely standing and we can't say that nothing was done right and I already said that in the first wave there were really some things that were certain good at the level that, rarely in those situations, we could be proud and say, look, we've done this well. But once again, it should be stressed that openness to perhaps some proposals, not only opposition, but doctors, doctors and scientists may prevent what we have now through the introduction of some other earlier measures that may have slowed down the spread of the infection and created a plateau that would rest at least or minimally our health system so as not to be in this, this situation of tension for more than a month and a half. So when we talk about what is wrong, we're not just talking about using it, because we really don't want to use this crisis just to criticise the ruling ones, we want to improve the system. But we must also try to tell the truth. So then, for example, when you said that no one could know in November this year that the virus would spread this horizontally in October and November it was simply not true and you know that it was not true, because the World Health Organization sent an alarm to Europe on September 17th and said that the virus started spreading extremely quickly, faster than in the first wave and that certain steps and measures should be taken quickly. Following this, the European Agency for the Control of the Proliferation of Infectious Diseases, on 24 October, issued an alarm for Europe. As soon as a few days later, the country starts to introduce measures that prevent the virus from spreading rapidly from restrictions on movement, from operating restrictions, etc. However, what all these countries had and had, and what we have been warning all along, was that the first step was to re-establish, which is therefore the first step of testing and trassing contacts, and we actually fell apart in the 10th month of the contact detection system. So, that first most important step to locate, identify where they are and isolate them. That's what World Health repeats all the time. And we appeal again. Let's re-establish that system to be efficient so that we can detect contacts in time, that we can put people in self-insulation in time to have at least information and also increase capacities if needed at least in terms of the speed of testing, because some people are really waiting for a test for a few days. At that time they already infected not knowing how many people. We also asked for a change of model a few days after the European Agency, gave these proposals and did not respond. So it was really a lack of will to hear maybe the other side. But let's see who else we don't listen to. So you said we weren't listening. They are not scientists who determine what methods we apply, but they are scientists from the Institute of Public Health, but not those from the Scientific Council. Well, then when they proposed a different model to you from the Scientific Council, then they got kicked out of that Scientific Council and we can't tell people that they didn't get kicked out. The first form of reproving them is in itself perhaps even more terrible, not to say that thanking someone for their cooperation means true. Who are the people who got kicked out? Petra Klepep, PhD in American MIT, the best natural science college. He works at the prestigious London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. In 2009, Nenad Ban, who was one of the most, was one step up to the Nobel Prize. Who else? Igor Rudan, doctor of public health and genetic epidemiology. Andrea Ristov, a great scientist from Ruger. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25099	Thank you very much. You've exceeded your time. You're way out of time. [[/Intruder Bencic: What? Did you say something to me?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25100	Thank you. But I think it's your colleague's job. He's doing great.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25101	We have one replica of the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Bencic, I'm interested in what an optimal model it is. Did you see what the Robert Koh Institute said in Germany? It means stricter measures. The German model that has been advertised for weeks is catastrophic. In Italy, which met in northern Italy with terrible numbers, 939 deaths were the largest number during the first lockdown. Now they had last week 993 dead in northern Italy. How do you comment? What model is that? You're talking about testing. The difference between PCR testing and rapid antigen tests, the Government of the Republic of Croatia bought 235 thousand rapid antigen tests. Slovakia has tested the entire population. They didn't get any results. So try a little bit, let's say specifically what data is. Don't call on jikic all the time. Here, Leopoldina sent a recommendation to Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25103	Thank you. Thank you very much. Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25104	Here, I'd be happy to answer that. First of all, what we said was that we missed those mild measures to introduce. So, from the location of contacts to the introduction that everyone is working from home to whoever can do it, but we didn't do any of it, and we immediately went to the closing of catering facilities, etc. which was necessary now. But we haven't introduced any prior measures. Furthermore, I'm glad you asked me about the antigen tests, because these scientists I've listed who have no conflict of interest have been kicked out of the Scientific Council, and Mr. Primorac, who is in an eclectic conflict of interest which the tests that cost 40 kuna sold in his St. Catherine for 350 kuna to citizens, has not been thrown out. What do we call people who profit in a crisis? We called them war profiteers. Now in scientific advice you've left yourself a crown of profiteers, and people who are the world's best scientists in your class you've thrown out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25105	Thank you, thank you very much. I'm asking you not to go to the Rules of Procedure's injuries, if they're not, please. Please. ... That's why he's standing there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, pal. You insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25106	The Rules of Procedure of Article 238. Representative Bencic, as an excellent speaker among other things and insults people, accuses them of serious crimes. You colleagues are no longer activists. You're a parliamentary representative now. Be responsible. If you have any indication, report it to the competent judicial authorities. Don't press charges against anyone here and don't ask for an out. Scientists have the right to freedom of speech, and everyone has the right to say it. Djikić, and Prof. And not to mention the other names.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25107	Thank you very much. I have to admit that this one fits, no, it doesn't need to get a warning because it's really something, I didn't interrupt this respected MP, but she's kind of crossed that line that's not really, it's not appropriate to cross this house. We will now give our word on behalf of the Government to Honoring Minister William Berosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25108	... It is necessary and further after all we have heard say a few words. [[Specially enabled.]] When it comes to the preparation of the health system and that all doctors and sisters did not know what their role was, it is simply not true. All health institutions received very clear instructions on their role in preparing the health system for their epidemic. It is the Director's responsibility to transfer those instructions to his employees. Our organization is very clear, I said centralised, focused on organising primary respiratory-intense centres, further secondary centres that are located in special hospitals and tertiary centres. Therefore, very clear and detailed instructions have gone from the Ministry of Health to all health institutions. Furthermore, it is clear that from one place it is managed by the crisis as Mrs. Mrak Taritash claims it is incorrect and that it is unknown how it is managed. Therefore, the Ministry of Health has taken over the role of leading the health system response process to this threat. When it comes to specialists who are involved in the treatment of these patients in the Republic of Croatia, we have 110 specialists in infectious diseases. In all countries of the world and Europe, a similar situation. No one was prepared for the same. However, we have anesthesiologists, we have interns, we have specialists in the rope of anesthesiological treatment, they all have to and can participate in the treatment of this condition and participate, it's our duty and responsibility. And according to Hippocrates' oath, we are responsible for helping our patients. Furthermore, the decision to mobilize is something that has been active since spring. Each health care professional referred to another institution has received a solution to mobilization, has received a solution from which the health care institution is leaving and how it works. So our mission is like you said to enable space, equipment and conditions. That's what we did. We've organized primary intensive respiratory centers, and Dubrava's immediately adapted to new circumstances. Installations have been carried out, certain tampons have been made, we have done everything to enable this health care facility to have six, and soon I believe 7 intensive treatment units where specialists from all Zagreb hospitals work, where nurses work from all Zagreb hospitals. It is the only possible answer to this crisis, and all with the aim of getting rid of other Zagreb health institutions so that they can provide other healthcare as long as possible. We cannot predict how long it will be, it will depend on the number of newly hospitalized, but we hope that it will be as long as possible and that we will ultimately preserve several health institutions that provide health care to other emergency cancer patients. It's our idea and our thinking. Furthermore, when it comes to education. Of course we've been thinking about the same thing. Two segments of education are conducted in Croatia. First, within the European Commission Covid-19 space online education organized by the European Intensive Medicine Society, where over 2,000 participants were reported at 31 centres. Another education that is provided through Croatian professional companies in 23 centres in the Republic of Croatia. For this second initiative, I don't know exactly how many students there are. Therefore, it is considered to provide emergency courses to all those doctors who may also have to participate in intensive health care for Covid-19 positive patients. Furthermore, Mr. Grbin absolutely does not occur to me to lie to you that some stricter measures did not get better results, but look at France, look at Slovenia, look at Austria, so there is no magic wand, there are no measures that are such to get great results. So that's what we wanted to say. Everyone thinks their way and everyone thinks of their own measures to prevent the spread of this disease. Furthermore, when I was talking about preparing the health system I didn't, I'm not going to obviously not now, I managed to say what was further done from the vaccine as you said. Of propaganda that will go very soon to strengthen awareness of the need for vaccination of Croatian citizens It is certain that if we reach a certain cleavage, the same will be effective, but I guess there will be opportunities to continue right now. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25109	Thank you very much. There's going to be a chance, here's a string of replicas again. He is the first respected representative of Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25110	Dear Minister, dear Vice President, when we look together, at least I as a layman, and you confirm to me, what is the success of a single country in fighting the Crown. First, total mortality, total mortality per million inhabitants of Belgium 1,500, France 869, Croatia 576. The second component, the stability of the health system that can absorb illness 1,000 is free beds we have enough equipment. Third measure of the holding and fourth vaccine. When we look at, say, France was introduced lockdown on 29.10. when 40,000 people were infected daily, they said we'd abolish the measures when it's 5,000, now they're at 10,000 growth, in other words we see that the virus is in free circulation, that the difficult situation is clinical in winter, and that despite the complete lockdown of a particular virus, there's free circulation and that even the country can't completely destroy the virus with total lockdown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25111	Thank you. Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25112	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. You're absolutely right. So there's no recipe that would be universal, that would be adequate. In most countries, numbers are still growing. They're falling into some. I believe that this will happen in the Republic of Croatia, because we are now witnessing that measures were introduced two, two, and a few weeks ago. However, when it comes to what else you were saying I will mention some more information given that there has been different information in public these days. So the total number of deceased is 2367. 812 were deceased on the respirator, and those who were not on the respirator were 1523, which means that the percentage of those who died and were on the respirator was 34.4%. These are the details that need to be highlighted. It is also mentioned that they are not included in the mortality statistics of those who died at home. Based on current data, only two patients have been reported by coroners who died at home so far. We also have data on mortality in the social system. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25113	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25114	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you didn't get me very well. Of course, the education of health workers is necessary, but the education of the entire population is also needed. This education must be continued. We have to work on it literally all together, it's not enough. And that's why there's still resistance to measures in part of people. Education, prevention, persuasion is a far better method than punishment. That's what I wanted to show you. And I'm glad they're about to start propagating vaccinations, because without it, I'm afraid this whole story will end. And let me just have one more dyspression. Mr. Pavic, if it was 40,000 a month ago, and today it's 10,000, it's not growth, it's the drop of exactly four times as much as I said in my presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25115	The answer of the Honorable Minister Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. MP, that the fact is, we've been educated so far. So there's no civilian protection headquarters press where we haven't repeated the measures, where we haven't repeated the importance of maintaining basic epidemiological measures to maintain the distance, the hygiene of hands, the wearing of a mask and everything else. So, day after day, we've been saying it for months. If that's enough, we can talk about it. But that's what our education was all about. When we saw that this was not helpful, we brought amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases and discussed sanctions, but not as methods and penalization, but as a method of deterrence, that is, prevention. However, it is precisely in the fact that our citizens are in some way dwindled in considering these measures that are inconsistencies of politics. They say one thing, the other they minorize the disease, the third they talk about some third things. So that's not good. We weren't unisons. I believe this is our common task, and the measures are so simple that all we have to do is talk and repeat the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25117	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25118	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I'll even agree with one part of your first sentence that you said, which is that part of the assignment has been dropped to the hospital director's level. Now, if you have an outbreak escalating in some area, if you have the most affected county, if you have a virus breach in the facility, then something with that organization is wrong. If you know you don't have an infectologist in either the Staff, nor is he a coordinator in that particular hospital, then there's certainly the responsibility of the director to be questioned and to say. As far as education is concerned, why do we think we should start with early education? So, in summer it's not like he's a line of education on respirators or is So it's not anyway on-line education or in time education sophisticated equipment with examples of patients. [[If you think about talking, please go outside and talk. Don't interrupt your colleague Maric to say what he wants to say. Here you go, fellow Maric.]] I think it doesn't matter whether a hematologist works with covid patients or a specialist in radiology or I don't know an endocrinologist or someone who isn't trained to work with covid patients, and that happens in our health institutions, and not people are educated.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25119	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25120	Thank you, Madam Parliamentarian. Well, next time I'd do what I've done these days in town and the facilities you come from, where the situation has really escalated. I've been there on the spot.../Invader Reiner: How many times do I have to tell you! It's rude to talk when someone else is talking! That's rude. Yeah, that's rude. I'm asking you nicely. Yeah, yeah, I'm obviously a little deaf. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Thank you. There, on the spot, I witnessed the condition of the Chakovez hospital and what is unfortunately a problem, that a breakthrough occurred not in the covid positive part, but in the covid negative part, where patients who came from other problems were treated and tested every two days. Some of them were for the first time on a quick antigen test negative, twice negative, the third time they became positive. In the meantime, they infected the doctors. So that's one circumstance we have to count on. They obviously came into the incubation phase of the hospital when it couldn't be detected that they were positive. That's what happened and that's why we reacted and brought new specialists of internal medicine to the Chakovec hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25121	The next replica of the esteemed Glamuzine MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25122	Thank you. In order for everything not to remain only on negative comments, I will refer to your mention of the lack of healthcare professionals, and I will say that I am extremely glad that you replaced your predecessor at the minister's place at the time that he is, since your predecessor stated that a priest worth 20 doctors would hire them in hospitals so we wouldn't have this problem. Indeed, even though he was one of the 15 ministers who had to leave the past government, I think he left a place better than himself. In order for you to probably be much better at leading this corona crisis that you can act completely independently as a health professional, I also believe that we think that this is all good we would not do today this interpretation, but certainly you are progressing and certainly appreciate your will and effort, because it is obviously an effort for you. Because you still feel the consequences. I wish you'd come here just to listen and answer our questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25123	Here's the Honorable Minister if he has anything to say for this commendation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25124	I would like to thank the honourable Parliamentarians. As I said at the beginning of my term, my goal is to serve Croatian citizens and you can be sure that in the course of this crisis we have done everything without saving time or energy consulting foreign experts. I personally communicate with Professor Emperor today by working out this strategy most often on the negative experiences of other countries of China and Italy at the beginning. We've been developing it, and it's gonna be white once and for all. Maybe at this point all healthcare professionals, so doctors and nurses don't even know all the elements or we can let them know everything. However, it is quite clear that the directors of health institutions are up to in detail familiar with our plans to respond to this extreme crisis. But we all face the same problems. The number of specialists in all countries is adapted to some other circumstances, not global pandemics, so we all react in a similar way by mobilizing health staff and engaging those closest specialists who can participate in participation, in the treatment of diseases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25125	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25126	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I think you are aware that you are now actually the first time in a position to answer as a member of the Staff to a political body. Because you don't answer to the government. You government don't even file reports. That's all they're aware of. This is the first time you've responded, and it's a shame that your commanding officer here isn't here with you and that he's listening to whatever we're talking about preparing the health system here. Because you've said it has to do with economics and other things. Because of the column in Vukovar and because of your personal strength you didn't stop this, and a month ago we could have had a stop and now we would have this data like those countries that at least dropped this number on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25127	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, we daily respond to our conscience and to Croatian citizens for all our actions we know that they affect the health of Croatian citizens and we are daily aware of the fact that it suits them. Furthermore, I would like to tell you that do you really think that we haven't arranged an epidemiological column of memory that the situation would be better if the citizens were to crowd out unorganized in Vukovar? I don't think so. I think that every event needs to be subordinated to the circumstances of a new normal, epidemiologically arranged, because that is the only way we can prevent the spread of the disease. And of course, it is necessary to appeal to those citizens who may have come uninvited thoughtlessly who did not wear masks. However, every day we warn that this is inappropriate behavior at the time of the epidemic, that it is a behavior that causes the spread of the disease and that leads to fatal outcomes. And that's what we keep saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25129	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25130	Thank you. Dear Minister, your colleague from the party, Celic, accused me of spreading the truth about the facts relating to the sale of antigen tests by Mr. Primorac, or his Special Hospital of St. Katarina. So, please tell me if it's the fact that they're in St. Katara's tests sold for 350 kuna. I know it's personal, because I ordered myself there and I know it's 350 kuna. I couldn't even get in line for four days because there was so much traffic. Furthermore, whether it is true that the price, the purchase price of these tests is 46 kuna plus VAT, i.e. around 60 kuna with VAT, would mean that it is sold for almost six percent higher prices. And if when you sell something for 600% more in an accident, in an epidemic to help people to prevent the spread of the infection whether it is the profit that you should be allowed to earn. [[Thank you very much.]] Because if it isn't, why did you limit the price to 104 kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25131	Please, let's not go too long. I'm very generous with time getting out of hand, but let's not go too far. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25132	Thank you. Dear Madam Parliamentary MPs, as Minister of Health, I am responsible for the public health system of the Republic of Croatia. And in this context, as you testify on several occasions, I have influenced the Croatian Health Insurance Institute to determine the price of tests that are appropriate, which it pays for all Croatian citizens who have an indication, so to whom it is free. However, private health institutions have the right and the ability to set prices for their services which are not controlled by the public health system and for this they are responsible for themselves both morally and differently. It is also a question of all those who will go to a health institution and adapt to these market conditions. So, as Minister of Health, I'm responsible for the public health system and I'll do everything I can to make the cost of testing appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25133	The next replica is the respected MPs Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, listening to tonight's debate from our opposition colleagues, Mr. Secretary, I need to ask you a few questions. So was Croatia really the worst dealings with this pandemic? Did our doctors really learn at least in this process and our citizens were least disciplined? Is it the virus or is it your fault, Mr. Minister? Is Croatia really the worst on that scale? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25135	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25136	Thank you. Dear Madam Parliamentary MPs, Croatia is not the worst on these scales. At this point, the epidemiological situation is not satisfactory, we would be happy if it were better, but we have taken certain measures that we hope will result in. If we don't get the results in the scheduled time, we'll sharpen what we evaluate daily. Furthermore, I can also tell you that what is responsible and prepares the health system is a completely different story. Our health system is prepared for this and much worse situation. This is what my greatest responsibility is and what I was trying to prepare the health system for new organisational, humane, technical material adjustments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25137	The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of the Sinisha Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25138	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, so here at the beginning of the crisis the opposition asked, the opposition shouted that we would all die of a total lockdown, and today we hear that we should have introduced an absolute lockdown. It kind of confuses me. When the punishments for wearing masks are severed, now it's no good, now we need to talk to people. So I have a feeling and wants to hear your comment whether it's just criticism for criticism or whether it's a real concern for the health of our citizens. On the other hand, speaking to citizens and asking them if you know how you infected people today can no longer detect how they got infected. So it's hard to find ways at all and find the reasons why people got infected with who they were in contact with, who was infected. So it's a very complex procedure, a very complex situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25139	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25140	Thank you. Dear Mr. Parliamentary MP, so the opposition must criticise, the aim is to criticise certain measures, but what I want to stress is the consistency of those from the beginning. And this is an adjustment to the epidemiological situation and finding a response to the same in the context and economic meanings of economic conditions. That's what makes us consistent from the beginning. And the thinking of headquarters has never been an oscillation since we minorized the disease, suggested some total lockdown or went to another extreme. So we were trying to be based on a concrete epidemiological situation. On the facts that determine each epidemic and this one, which is a number of numbers, not just the number of newly infected, the erofactor, the number of hospitalized, those on the respirator, etc. We've done it every day so far, we'll do it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25141	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25142	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you said earlier in your discussion that the entire hospital system had received clear instructions on what they needed to do. What about doctors in KB Dubrava? Were they protesting because they were bored or not aware or realized that they should do so under the given circumstances and according to your instructions? I'd like to ask you, if the organization is so good, how come you as a minister say that you are not responsible or that it is not your responsibility to organize hospital work. So, you wash off your responsibility when we criticize the organization of work, but the organization is good, but you're not responsible. Then who's responsible? You're kind of unconsistent or contradictory to me in statements here today, but you're also all this time of the pandemic, just like the headquarters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25143	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25144	Thank you. Dear Madam Parliamentarians, you have the right to your opinion of my inconsistency, I do not think I am inconsistencies and I will repeat once again very clearly what this is about, but first I will tell you about the duality of the Dubrava instruction. While the previous administration did not implement all those clear measures and instructions to adapt Dubrava to the new circumstances, it was said that doctors and sisters protested, however, it was resolved. We've seen, we've detected what the problem is, we've diagnosed the situation and we've solved it therapeutically by changing the directorship. We don't have a situation like that right now. Six intensive units are set up, doctors from other hospitals are working in Dubrava, and we don't have that kind of problem right now. Is there going to be someone else tomorrow, it's a question, but at this point we don't have them. The instructions are clear and transparent. I take over if you want responsibility, which is also normal as a minister, but do you really think I can manage 63 hospitals in the Republic of Croatia each of which is organised differently, has its own activities work structure, if you think I can, I unfortunately don't think I can, so there are directors [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So that's why I communicate daily and with employees. [[Intruder: The next replica is, thank you very much.]] And with the principals. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25145	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25146	The Honorable Minister to me is the scariest thing here when you go out for a pay phone and your colleagues on the right and then you imply that this debate is the only criticism for criticism. You yourself admit that some things don't seem right, that you can't control things, and I would really like you to have a lot of success, I'd really like to do my job, answer your colleague when she asks, we're not the worst, we're the other worst in Europe. I would honestly like to, for the first time when I was asked at the 3rd month in the city hall was one press, so it was a matter of measures around the crown, then I said no, I'm not afraid, but I'll respect every measure that's being taken because citizens are watching us for what we're doing and then they're acting the same way. It happened to us that one of the two most protected men in the country got infected, the question is, is that's why What did he fail to comply with, or did a failure happen somewhere? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25147	The answer of the Honorable Minister Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25148	Thank you. Dear Mr. Parliamentarian, I myself said on several occasions that criticism is welcome and that from criticism if it is objective it can learn. However, you will admit yourself that some criticisms have been made only to be criticised. Here we have heard on several occasions that certain scientists have been expelled from medical advice that simply does not correspond to the truth. And we bear responsibility for the spoken word. If that's not true, we have to admit it. So scientists are not expelled and their further participation in scientific advice is welcome. But that some of the criticisms can't teach you anything, absolutely can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25149	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, may these, these attacks of opposition do not quite take hold of the heart, demagogues are not to say hypocrites. 2.5 months ago, part of the opposition took part in the Freedom Festival. He kissed, rolled around the square, laughed, said the crown was a lie, that the headquarters wanted to control them, until yesterday the opposition advocate wouldn't put a mask here in the Croatian Parliament. They questioned in the Constitutional Court, took down headquarters in the Constitutional Court, so it didn't pass. Until yesterday, and now look at the part of the MPs that signed this, this pamphlet doesn't hold the masks properly, if it were here the Covid director would have charged them the fine. And they're talking about how the Civil Protection Headquarters works. A few days ago, they opposed the imposition of fines for not sticking to the headquarters measures, and now they're paying because there's a large number of infected people. What do you think of that? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25151	The answer of the Honorable Minister Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25152	Thank you. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, all of us public workers and politicians are responsible for the matter and we must understand the impact of our words on the public. And that's why we kept stressing this educational activity of headquarters and our presses. In a certain part of the press, we only maintained it to send this clear educational message. Therefore, inconsistency, neunison confuses citizens and does not contribute to improving the epidemiological situation. We must be all aware and responsible for what we say and what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25153	The next is the replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25154	Thank you, Chairman. Well, sometimes it's sad to hear that you HDZ people don't understand anything. Not to you at this time, opposition is the greatest enemy, all of us the crown and the virus is our greatest enemy. And the reason why we started the battle with him is because of your interpretation that every scientist has the right to express his opinion, that he does, but if he says it in scientific advice, and he disagrees and disagrees with what the scientific advice expects the prime minister to do, then the same scientists with his expertise will be publicly demoted, humiliated and humiliated. Is that the way? Two key questions are being asked here. Is the system well organized and ready for another wave? If it works out properly, if we take measures according to epidemiological standards or politically as it suits your majority. A colleague I know today contacted her doctor with symptoms for a test run got 17.12, let's not run away from the problem, solve them together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25155	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Parliamentarian, I'll just say the following. So we've secured 250,000 rapid antigen tests that we believe will solve this PCR by testing. We have 23 test sites in the Republic of Croatia and capacities that are larger than today's testing, but it is very difficult to adapt to larger numbers. However, rapid antigen testing and the education of mobile teams, nurses, doctors and primary health care and emergency medical care has already been done. And hopefully in the sense that someone was saying that just using rapid antigen tests right now, we're going to detect as many positive ones as possible and thus isolate them and prevent them from spreading the disease. That's our strategy, which is why we got so many rapid antigen tests, and that campaign will start run by HZZ as soon as possible. And yesterday I had a meeting with all the directors of the county ZZ. where I asked them for participation in the same. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25157	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25158	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Berosch, as I said at one point, I was one of those who trusted the headquarters. And our many fellow citizens believed both I and somehow I allow it to be wrong, but when it is wrong then somehow that mistake should be admitted. This is an ideal opportunity for me to ask you because in a meeting through a debate several times, through the debate we mentioned our distinguished parliamentary representative who said in February, I will quote: "Concretely and clearly when it comes to masks those who have symptoms of any respiratory infection would really be good to wear masks so that the virus would not be wider away, but all those who do not have symptoms do not have to buy masks and wear them." You know well that we voted on Friday or voted the law that they do not wear masks pay the penalty. What reasons were there when it was claimed And what are the reasons today, or did someone make a mistake or what happened? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25159	Thank you very much. The answer of the Honorable Minister Beros. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25160	Thank you. Dear Madam Parliamentary MPs, however, I think the use of this remark to Mrs. Maja Grbi Bujevic is used for political purposes. It is clear to all of us that we have read at this time of world literature that even the World Health Organization did not at that time suggest wearing masks. If you haven't informed yourself about it then you can do it now. And further, I'm going to ask you the next question, what are you saying about the fact that the chief Swedish epidemiologist is of the opinion that even at this point wearing a mask is not appropriate? Personally, even though I'm not an epidemiologist, an infectologist, a virologist, I think wearing a mask helps. Although it's a matter of the size of the pores on the mask, the size of the virus and the actual efficacy. But then, and I am witnessing it myself, I read that the world health care didn't suggest wearing masks. So I don't think it's such a mistake and I agree with you that whenever a man makes a mistake, he can admit a mistake so I don't see that it's such a problem but from all this I've said I don't see that that was such a mistake back then. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25161	Thank you very much. Now we're going to continue with the clubs, finally. Secondly, thank you very much, Minister, the next House Movement Representatives Club, will speak on behalf of it a respected representative, Milan Vrkljan. Yeah, I'll give, I'll give, don't worry, I'll be, I'll give. It's not 3 o'clock, you can watch the clock, so you'll know how long it's been.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25162	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the fact is that in recent days, and especially today, the number of newly ill exceeds 4000 and is approaching the number of 5 thousand, which tells us about the seriousness of the situation. But I'd say you're a happy man as a minister. I don't know if we could still have an impact on your HDZ colleagues on the right-hand side of this debate, because this kind of debate will probably be a lot more, given your epidemiological predictions, ask them not to defend you. Nor can they defend you, nor can those on the left can bring you down. You don't know who had a worse show. I'm not going to come back in the third month and talk about whether a hospital with COVID was supposed to be set up by then, whether it was better to protect our KBCs, whether in the 5th month, 6 was meant to conduct a comprehensive patient education, and especially the education of medical staff, doctors and nurses, but I'm going to talk about that there are certain problems that I would like to say and deeply believe that medicine, health care is not a field for political competition. And I'm really surprised by the way I've been discussing and the discussion I've been listening to tonight. A few days ago we had the seventh law since the free Republic of Croatia on the protection of the public against infectious diseases and it is amazing that it is already the seventh law, and at the same time the Dubrovnik Republic had only one law for several hundred years. And it's not even questionable that we're so many laws, and we've brought this one specifically tied to the crown and tomorrow when another infectious disease appears, we're going to have to vote for a new law. It is disputed that this law includes what is completely wrong, and I also said that penalties are provided for from 10 to 40 thousand kuna, creating a place for mistrust, manipulation and possible corruption. What I would like to say, draw attention to myself, I deeply believe that you know this, but because of the public, it should also be said that after the World Health Organization declared an epidemic, it recommended that every patient, every human, every person, every patient who died 30 days after having a positive test to consider him a patient who died of COVID. I'd like to ask you a question now, do you know that the American Food and Drug Agency made a statement in which at 23 points, it said what could happen to a patient who was being vaccinated? One of the worst possibilities is death. Do we, Minister, do we, does the Staff, do we want the Scientific Council to create a public change for us again, a portal that will scare people with the possibility of a fatal outcome? If the US government and the Agency consider it normal, that it is acceptable and that American citizens can bear the fact, they realize that the outcome of vaccinations and deaths is possible, why do we in Croatia think that this is impossible? Why don't we go out, why don't we educate our citizens? Why don't we tell them loud and clear what we can expect? Why are we hiding the possibility of events after potential vaccinations and potential bad outcomes? On the other hand, I would ask you to influence the Government of the Republic of Croatia that when it negotiates with pharmaceutical companies on the purchase of vaccines to install in the contract a clear provision which, in the event of difficult complications or fatal outcome, is responsible for the patient’s pharmaceutical company. It can't be something that a family or a patient is going to stand trial after and try to prove that it's the result of that vaccine, because we know that an individual can't go against the pharmaceutical industry and that's why we as a government of our citizens have to protect him. Don't tell me it's impossible, because the German government has made such a deal with pharmaceutical industries and all German citizens are protected from difficult complications and fatal outcomes. We have to work transparently. What I personally, in addition to that last law, clearly states that the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance of the Ministry is a headquarters, but that the government is responsible for the work of headquarters. So both the director and the minister were all appalled by poorly implemented measures. The government, headed by Andrej Plenkovic, has taken responsibility for implementing the measures. However, if we're going to talk about transparency. What's the problem with the government going public and saying if there's a conflict of interest in the Scientific Staff in the Scientific Council? What's the problem is that we've been guessing about it for 10 days and they're giving us some left, but I don't think left, and I'm right-handed, and I'm thinking left-wing what the left portals say that don't understand anything, or those journalists who write about it understand. So what's the problem that we can't talk about these things transparently? Were they in the Staff, or Scientific Council of People who had an interest in it, who benefited from sitting there. We can't find out. On the other hand, the ministers must briefing you with quality cooperation. You have now stated that 50 or 60% of the patients after being connected to the respirator are successfully treated, that a colleague who is far more responsible and professional than you because she was told two days ago that the figures go with a fatal outcome of up to 80%. Who's telling the truth? What's the problem that we can't know as a society of truth? Why are we so immature to the truth? Well, whatever she is. Well, we all know we have a pandemic, we have an infection, we have a difficult situation. We have patients who have a fatal outcome. So let's tell our fellow citizens the real truth. Let's not hide the truth. On the other hand, one agency made an American assessment for Croatia, and that is why I was somewhat affirmative now if it is affirmative. The estimates are that there will be 10,000 dead in Croatia for the next three months. When I said that 15 days ago that Croatia would cross the figure of 1000 dead then those who defend you today from HDZ were horrified, they said that I was trying to scare people and that I couldn't say such things. And now again I say the third and fourth month we'll have 10,000 deaths. But if we know we're going to have 10,000 deaths or we doubt that, then let's stop saying what should have happened in the third month. Let's start making moves, educate new doctors, educate the public about knowing how to prepare for this possible situation. And on the other hand, I'm not a signer of this interpretation, they didn't give me, they didn't trust me. And I would only recommend that the Staff Report, the Minister's report to this House should be once a week, because things happen too fast.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25163	Thank you very much. We'll still have a novice, a respected representative of Mrak-Taritash, and after that, we'll take a break for the ventilation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-10-0.u25164	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, dear ministers with an associate. Now I'm going to use this time for a few themes. I can agree with what the minister said no one has a magic wand. If he had a magic wand, I'm sure that would solve the problem. Equally, on several occasions I said it was absolutely clear that it was one situation that hit not only Croatia and Europe, but the whole world, that at the beginning everyone didn't, that we were all actually scared. In the human race, fear is something that causes you special emotions, but also special caution. A friend of mine who was a doctor when I asked him, he said it was like 19th century you. The only way is to reduce contacts. And that's a fact. We had then a Swedish model that works in Sweden in the way it works. That's where the Swedes live. So every country has to have its own model. But what we're referring to, which we want to point to is a few things. In the preparation of this interpretation, of course we did it very responsibly and very consciously and consulted both doctors and consulted both the terrain and everything else. I've got two things to say at the same time. I could even speak for myself about it, because during this crown, I was in an easier operation. So I was in the system, and also after ten days of self-insulation, I developed a coronary virus, or positive. And I have to say thank you for the situation now, but one two, three days wasn't very good, and it was absolutely clear to me why this is both a great number and a great mortality of all of it together. And now I listen to my friends, listen to doctors, and everything they tell me, I use vitamins and everything I need to do. I'd like to ask Minister Beros in one of these replicas because it's not easy for him. I'm sorry it's gonna be here till late morning with us, but that's the way it is. What does he think he should use? But why am I saying that? I'm talking about this information problem. So, on the one hand, I have to touch this information of our citizens who really aren't, they're not getting enough information, they don't know enough. They're scared of it all. But also, I don't think that's weird because we get really conflicting information in public space all the time. It seems to me that in these things it must be clear, exact and clear about what it is. And I'm going to mention this respirator problem. At this point, there are 296 patients on the respirators if I see well, or I read well. And now, around the respirator all along there was a story about how many we have, how many we don't have, how many we need, how many we don't need. We have transport, we don't have transporters that can be used, that can't be used, that are transferred from one place to another. We received information from someone who knows something about it, so they said that already a large number of hospitals already have respirator fills about 90%, that they have hospitals that have 10 to 15 respirators outside of Zagreb and that now they have only one free respirator and then doctors literally ask Dubrava to receive a patient, because if the next case comes, they don't die. So this is a disease in a way that people die. It's not easy out of power and out of the full story you suddenly get yourself into some sort of situation to make it clear to you that human life is now you are and the other day you're not. But what we can't possibly do and what we expect from both the minister and the headquarters, which is not to increase stress, anxiety, uncertainty for the simple reason because I would be most fortunate to have a successful outcome of this fight as soon as possible. But what I'm going to say is just two sentences for the end, when you see polls, and when you see how many of our citizens have decided or think that I don't need to be vaccinated, it's scary. I would like it to be much more and therefore it is the last hour for ministers to educate citizens, to talk about the importance of vaccination because I am absolutely sure, I am an architect as most of you know, that the vaccination of the nation, that vaccination can indeed silence this immeasurable and reduce to a reasonable measure. Thank you very much.
