ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u5302	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:06 AM]] So now we're going to join the vote. First we'll complete the agenda, then we'll vote on the 15 points we have. Comrade Bencice, go ahead before we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u5303	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club for the reason that we would like to consult further on the amendment proposal and addition of the Law on concessions where all the amendments proposed by the Government have been rejected, and some of these amendments are key to parliamentary control over the strategic protection of the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, such as declaring the strategic interest of production and distribution of electricity from renewable sources. We know why it's important, we've had an affair, we're still discussing it and we see how important parliamentary control is and how much of this kind of strategic interest is. Secondly, your refusal made it impossible for the Parliament to access the amendment of the concession agreement and when it comes to the protection of the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia. Why is it not possible to amend the contract by the Assembly and that the Parliament finds that the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia is violated, it is likely that the HDZ alone is aware because the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia in HDZ is translated with the financial interest of the party or its individuals. We have also asked that the right to concession in favour of financial institutions cannot be based on the special interest under the protection of the Republic of Croatia, such as agricultural land, ports, sea shores, etc. and the amendment was rejected for reasons why Parliament does not want to be given the opportunity to control this part and that, by virtue of the law of the financial institution, banks do not therefore come into the possession of the most valuable public goods we have such as agricultural land. That's why I'm looking for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u5304	Okay. Thank you. If we don't go first like that, otherwise I ask you to call before the polls are on the agenda, so we still have an update on the agenda, and then the vote begins, so those who will report for the break please always report before voting on the wheel or when the announcement comes that we will vote on a wheel. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u5305	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am also looking for a 10 minute break so that once again within the club, as well as to the entire Croatian public, we will clearly show that the law amending and supplementing the concession law does not in any way diminish the importance, importance of HS when it comes to strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia and in that part of the change of the concession agreement between concession providers and concessionaires. In fact, this is both the Government's representative and during the debate, and we have made it clear in the name of the club on several occasions during the very debate on the law on amendments and additions to the concession law. Namely, art. 74. The concession law remains the right of HS to intervene with the concession agreement when it is assessed that by implementing the concession, the conduct of economic activity by the concessionaires would compromise the national interest that HS could intervene. And the other thing that is even more important, which is that at any time by special law, the lex specialis law can intervene and prescribe what are the national interests of the Republic of Croatia which cannot be subject to concession or which are not limited by concession in any way. Namely, the Law on concessions is a roof law which concessions concessioners in the Republic of Croatia, but it defines 23 different areas in Croatia and each of these 23 areas is resolved by special law, as concessions of maritime goods are regulated by the Law on Maritime Goods, the Law on Agricultural Land definition of concessioning of agricultural land is governed by these laws. prescribe all those provisions defining the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]] So Mrs. Bencic cheats on the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u5306	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. All right, then let's go to the addendum to the agenda according to article. 226.St. 2. I propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda with 15 new points. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on aquaculture, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction Products, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Finality of Payment Systems and on Financial Instruments, Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement on Contribution between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Croatia relating to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to COVID-19, Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement on the First Call between the Original Guarantees and Guarantees of Accessions, Proposal for a Law on Time to the European Investment Bank, Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, Proposal for a Law on the Rehabitation of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, Proposal for the Law on the Law on Civil Protection of the Year 2019 on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of Civility and the Law on the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofCroatia. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents, if requested by the applicant, and are not voted on. These are the 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 206th century is 1. I hereby establish that these legal proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act under point 8 of the proposed amendment? This is the proposal for a law amending the Voluntary Health Insurance Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, is proposed by counterpart Silvano Hrelja. Any objections? In the absence of any comments, a proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure shall be deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. There were no rules of procedure of written objections at the remaining points of the draft agenda, and I note that all the items proposed are included in the agenda of the 3rd session. Before we move to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Forests, I would like to welcome my colleague Djakic, who is also sick of the Corona and wish him his health as soon as possible and to return to us. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests, first reading, P.Z. No. 8. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Forests and 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 122 MPs voted, 90 for, 24 abstentions and 8 against, so it was concluded that it was proposed by the working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6365	Good morning, I wish you all, at least we're few, but our colleagues will probably join us. So, we are going as announced with a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions, emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z.E. No. 16. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, MPs Miro Bulj and Zvonimir Troskot, a representative called Brumnić, a Green-left bloc representative club and representative Darko Klasic. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, the Honorable Zdravko Zrinašić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. First of all, Amendment No. One representative of Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6366	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. The first amendment is not accepted. The amendments to the existing norm set out in the final draft of the law complements this amendment with the provision that the concession cannot be granted on the maritime good for a 99-year period. The concession law here is a roof law in relation to other specific rules governing the award of concessions in certain areas. As such a regulation of the general provisions and the existing article prescribes, 8, the subject matter of the concession until paragraph 2 of that article on which amendments are given is defined exclusively which areas can be granted in a concession at all, so it is prescribed that concessions cannot be given on forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, in the field of defence and security and on other well-established specific rules. Therefore, other specific rules governing the award of concessions in certain areas impose other provisions and set the deadlines on which concessions can be granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6367	Thank you very much. There is no representative of Klasic, therefore, we will have to vote on that. The second amendment is Green-Left Block Representative's Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6368	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. Related to the subject matter of concession, the Croatian Parliament is in art. Article 8(4) The law on concessions, therefore, in the paragraph on which the amendment is given, laid down what the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia are, thus establishing a concession for the construction and management of highways, construction and management of railway lines, transmission and distribution of electricity, construction and management of oil pipeline infrastructures, construction and management of gas transport. Therefore, the award of these concessions in these areas is possible exclusively through the adoption of specific regulations in the Croatian Parliament. Since paragraph 5 of that Article provides that, apart from the concessions mentioned earlier in paragraph 4, the Croatian Parliament may declare any other concession for certain goods, services and works to be of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, we do not consider it necessary to supplement the provisions of paragraph 4. in the manner proposed by the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6369	Thank you, on behalf of the club, respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6370	Thank you. So, with this amendment, we actually wanted to protect as a strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia and plants for the production of electricity from renewable sources. Given the European Green Plan, also given that parts of the European Green Plan are integrated into the Government's programme, we do not understand why this Assembly should specifically decide as you have now mentioned, in certain cases that renewable energy sources are strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia if we now have the opportunity to add these few words to this article in order to protect the actual management and construction of a renewable power plant. In fact, if our plan is to increase the share of renewable energy sources in the total production of the Republic of Croatia, then I see no objective reason not to do so now but to have to decide in particular. So in this way, the government actually shows that it does not understand or want to understand or not want to protect plants for renewable energy sources, who knows for what reason. In fact, we also had affairs in the area, so we are very interested in what is a concrete explanation not to add it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6371	Are you asking for a vote on that amendment? Thank you very much. [[Intruder Bencic: Yes, yes, we stay on the amendment and ask for a vote.]] Third amendment of MP Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6372	The amendment is not accepted. Through the proposed amendments and additions to this final draft law, this standard is already relevant in such a way that future eligibility studies must take into account spatial plans in order to verify compliance with the provisions governing spatial regulation and compliance with the spatial plan at the early stage of the preparation of concessions. Namely, in this final proposal of the law through the Art. 4th Amendment to which an amendment is given, in the existing Article. 18. which refers to a study of eligibility of concessions, the words ‘space plans’ have already been added and in the existing article. 19th relating to the content of the study of justification shall be through the provision of Article 19. Paragraph 4 adds the words "and its relationship to the existing spatial plan". Also, the Law on concessions as a roof law through Art. 11. defines cases prior to the concession procedure relating to property-legal relations and specific sectoral regulations regulate specificities in their fields of competence. Therefore, in a study of the justification of granting a concession from the Art. The 18th Act, the article on which the amendment is given and the documentation for competition, provides for conditions relating to issues which are also part of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6373	I don't see Agent Klasic, so we're going to have to vote on that amendment. The next fourth amendment is also representative Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6374	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as Amendment No. 3 Since the norm applies to Art. Article 18 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6375	As Agent Klasic is gone, we will have to vote on that. The 5th amendment is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6376	The amendment is not accepted. Art. 25. The Law on concessions to which the amendment is granted provides for the other grounds of exclusion of the economic operator from the concession procedure, so it prescribes the actions preceding the decision on the award of the concession and the conclusion of a concession agreement with the selected concessionaire. After that, Article 66 itself. The concession law regulates the transfer of the concession contract, i.e. the possibility and conditions of the modification of the concession contract, so the amendments already exist to whose contract or contract is concluded. Therefore, the implementation of the proposed standard referred to in Article 1 shall be carried out. Article 66(2) in the context of application. 25. It is not possible to carry out for the reasons mentioned above. With that in mind, we note that it is. The 24th Law prescribes mandatory grounds for the exclusion of an economic operator from the concession procedure at any time, and the other grounds for exclusion of an economic operator are prescribed. 25. note that those articles are fully in line with the concession directive No. 214/23/EU and the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6377	On behalf of the club, distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6378	So, with this amendment, we wanted to ensure that what's going on is what's going on. In the event of a change in the concession contract, it is proposed that the transfer of the concession contract should not reduce the quality and distort the continuity of the execution of the concession contract. Because, in fact, in art. In 66, where that condition is stated that the transfer must not reduce the quality and distort continuity, there is no provision for any sanctions, i.e. the consequences of the breach and the reduction of the quality or continuity of the performance of the contract. For this reason, we felt that this condition should also be put in this article. We're staying on the amendment, of course, and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6379	The 7th Amendment, too, of the Club of Representatives... I'm sorry, 6th also, green-left block representatives. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6380	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment shall be accompanied by the amendment of the proposal. The 62nd Law clarifies the importance of public interest which would be protected by the proposed provision as the Croatian Assembly would be able to amend the concession contract when it potentially violates the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia. Art. The 62nd Act regulates in which cases and under which conditions a concession contract may be amended without the launch of a new concession procedure. In this respect, provisions that prescribe HS as the most legislative body may amend the concession agreement are also contained. In the context of the amendments, the amendment proposed by the norm without a strict and clearly prescribed definition of economic interest, we believe that such a provision would be general and therefore arbitral, which proved to be a dispute in the existing provision of item 1. Law 2. In this respect, as regards the protection of public interest, which is stated by the proposer of the amendment in which it is contained and of economic interest, I stress that the existing provisions of the law contained in Chapter VI. the law and as regards the termination of the concession already provides that the concession ceases to be terminated by the concession contract on the grounds of public interest and the provision of the right to terminate the contract in whole or in part must be contained in the concession contract if the HS determines by its decision that it requires public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6381	On behalf of the club, distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6382	Thank you. I must say that I am really surprised that this amendment agreed on by the large, large majority of MPs here and the vast majority of MPs were precisely this argument that, with the threat of national security and the defence of the state of the environment, the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia was added. So it is amazing that it is the HDZ Government that has a number of affairs of corruption, very often and precisely on the question of both concessions and general contracts with the exercise of certain or transfer of certain powers to the private sector, therefore, that it does not see that the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia is one of the key reasons, one of the key public interests that we must point out here. So, if the orientation of this government is to protect public goods, it is to protect the public interest of the Republic of Croatia in which, with national security and defence and the environment must fall under the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia, we really do not understand that the proposal of the entire opposition and this amendment refuses. So this shows that it is actually a question of concession of a domain in which HDZ wants to keep the monopoly, where laws are written in a way that enables it to continue to allow, in fact, the Republic of Croatia to lose a large part of the funds that could be made through concessions and also, that the law works in a way that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia cannot actually control the Government in the question of concession contracts. Thank you. We're staying on the amendment, of course, and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6383	The 7th Amendment is a representative of Mira Bulj and Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6384	The amendment is not accepted. As stated in the reasoned final draft of the law, Art. 62. The possibility of amending the concession contract has been specified, the amendment of the contract of concession No 1 point is deleted. 2 Given that such a provision is generalised because it does not define what the interest of the Republic of Croatia would be without already being prescribed in point 1 of the same paragraph. Art. 50th century 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia determines that entrepreneurial freedoms and ownership rights can be extremely limited by law in order to protect the interests and safety of the Republic of Croatia, nature, human environment and human health. In this regard, let us recall, in the current paragraph 1 of this Law, it is prescribed that the concession agreement can be amended without the launch of a new concession procedure in cases where HS finds that national security and defence of the state, the environment and human health are at risk. Furthermore, in point 3 of that paragraph, it is prescribed that the contract may be amended without the launch of a new concession procedure in other cases by a specific law, i.e. the regulations adopted by HS. In this respect, in order to protect the public interest in which it is contained, I repeat, the economic interest, the existing provisions of the laws contained in Chapter VI. and relate to the termination of the concession, they already contain provisions which stipulate that the concession ceases with the termination of the concession contract for public interest, and the provision of the right to terminate the contract must be contained in the concession contract if the HS determines by its decision that it requires public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6385	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6386	Thank you very much. The Croatian Parliament has its powers and the people have chosen us and the only purpose of this law that you have given to the esteemed secretaries and your Government, Andrej Plenkovic, is to rule out HS, to take away the rights of us Assembly deputies, to have the opportunity to change concession contracts. I think this is one of the most embarrassing laws and one of the biggest cowardly eggs, is who will decide on key resources in the matter of concessions from maritime goods on which you and your party exist, of course these are maritime good, agricultural land, that's energy, that's all God gave us and the man who created it in the Republic of Croatia. You're distasteful of our MPs. So where will you decide? He'll be at the club heads of public companies. It will be that you brought this law there, too, I don't know if you were, and probably you were. I see your mustaches are laughing a little at the club by Mr Kovacevic and you will decide there with Mesic, Milanovic. Who are you going to decide with there? So we're going to let our colleagues and colleagues decide on these clubs from the heads of public companies to whom they're going to give a concession. So are you ashamed at all to be given this proposal on concessions when you know what you've done for these concessions? Well, the water sources you gave the foreigners in concessions, more cows drink in one month of water than they pay in concessions for the source of Cetina. The 5,000 kuna government of Zoran Milanovic debated the government's session for 32 seconds. You want to make a decision at the clubs? Here I ask you, answer freely, I give you time you have 20 seconds. In the club heads of companies who are obliged to fight for the interests of public goods. And we will now disembark to you, if our colleagues and colleagues accept it then we will disband the Parliament, bring here a motion to disband the Parliament that it is gone. What's the point of democracy? .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6387	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote? The 8th amendment is representative of Darko Klasic. [[Intruder Bulj: Obligatory.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6388	The amendment is not accepted. Since it is as content as the previous one, the reasoning as on the previous amendment is given that they are similar in substance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6389	A representative of Klasic doesn't have as far as I can see, so we'll have to vote. The 9th Amendment is an agent called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6390	The amendment is not accepted. During the duration of the concession contract, various sudden business or unforeseen circumstances such as multiple forces may arise, and such circumstances may occur during the last period of consumption of the contract itself. The proposed provision would also lead to a breach of the Directive and a provision of the deadline for the submission of applications for amending the concession agreement, and would consequently affect the protection of competition and the rights of the parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6391	Honorable representative called Brumnic. He's gone. We'll have to vote. Amendment 10 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6392	The amendment was accepted during the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6393	It becomes an integral part of the law. 11th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6394	The amendment is not accepted. Regarding matters of maritime good as well as lands of art. 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the sea coast and islands, as well as land, forests and other parts of nature have special protection of the Republic of Croatia. For example, the Law on ownership and other real rights is prescribed that the seashore as a general good is not capable of being a property and other real rights object. The general good takes care of them, manages and corresponds to the Republic of Croatia if the special law is not otherwise specified. Finally, the Law on concessions created all assumptions for the thorough regulation and improvement of maritime goods through the application and harmonisation of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports with the Law on concessions as a roof law, as well as the protection of maritime goods as well as their better management.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6395	In the name of the club, respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6396	Thank you. But I really must tell you that let's say this argument is not in any relation to the proposed amendment. So now you're talking about what's regulated. 52. The Constitution is that these are the subject of a special Law on concessions, for example on maritime goods, for example the Law on ownership and other real rights prevents ownership of, for example, maritime goods. We know all that, we don't even talk about it. We asked to prevent the placing, obtaining the right to concession on the good I define from art. 52. The constitution is therefore as good as you have already numbered the sea, sea shores and islands, water, airspace, mineral treasure, other natural resources, land, forests, plant and animal world, other parts of nature, real estate and things of particular cultural and historical, economic and ecological significance. So, what we wanted with this amendment is to ensure that financial institutions cannot get a long-standing right to concession on key natural resources such as agricultural land, ports, etc. Indeed, again, we do not understand why the HDZ government would not want to protect in this way from placing a pledge right on key public goods, why it would refuse the same amendment that the vast majority of the opposition agreed on. I really did when I saw it that you didn't limit it, I thought it was actually an accident. Therefore, you cannot deliberately and knowingly allow financial institutions to obtain a 30-year right to a concession on large parts of agricultural land. I mean, it's really not right. We stay on the amendment, we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6397	12th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6398	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendments to the final draft law make it clear that there is a possibility of protracting and that the conditions for negotiation are determined according to market conditions, and the law continues to lay down the conditions for the conclusion of contracts under concession. Part of the harmonisation of this law with Directive 214/23 of the EU on the award of a concession contract is set out. The possibility to conclude a sub-concession contract is defined in the framework of the tendering documentation so that the future concessionaire is in advance familiar with areas where it is possible to enter into a sub-concession contract or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6399	In the name of the club, respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6400	We're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6401	Amendment number 13. Representative Dark Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6402	The amendment does not accept this article as amended and in line with the objections made by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia would only remind, the concessionr shall conclude a contract with the concessionary, and not with the sub-concessionaire and, in that sense, the concessionee shall continue to be responsible for the awarding of the concession contract and shall have all the rights and obligations laid down in the contract to the concessionor, regardless of whether he has concluded a contract or a concession agreement which is the usual practice in the EU. For the conclusion of a contract or contract, the concessionary is obliged to obtain the prior written consent of the concession provider and any proposed amendments. It is also important to point out that, with the concession provider, the inspection supervision of the operation of concessionaires covering the entire area of concession is carried out by the Customs Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6403	I don't see a respected representative of Klasic, so we're going to have to vote on that amendment. We've finished discussing the amendments and we're going to the next item.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6404	Now he moved on to the vote. The first is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions. Here you go, Comrade Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6405	Dear President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club. I listened carefully to the proposal for new topics and again while the DORH entertained the public on someone's orders with juicy information, who was where he was stealing from Croatia, who was all in a club of some Kovačić, apparently all representatives of both parties, until certain important topics for Croatia were solved, I see, again. And I won't stop warning you about it. One of the major problems is the one that has been standing for months, which is the one that has shared 50,000 students in Croatia. They'll have that problem knocked on the door in three months. So nearly 50,000 students in Croatia were enrolled under the then applicable law of professional study and guaranteed by law, not by promise, by law, by their rights. The Constitutional Court brought it down. You have no right to retrograde anyone's rights. Someone's families invested in their education. If you're going to pass the laws you're going to make and bring them in, let the constitutional courts destroy whatever they want to destroy, but they have no right to destroy retrograde rights of people who have invested financial resources in their education. They are to be respected. You make a decision for those who go later. And if you decide those rights to destroy them, since the state has damaged them, then I suggest they sue the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6406	You know for a fact that your request for a break wasn't connected to the point we're going to vote on right now. At least that's how I see it, the concession law, so. But okay, let's go to the vote now. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 16. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, MPs Miro Bulj and Zvonimir Troskot, a representative called Brumnic, a Green-left bloc representative club and representative Darko Klasic. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. We have agreed on the amendments earlier in the session, and we will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. So we start with the vote, the first amendment of MP Darko Klasic. The government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. 2. Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives Government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment No. 3 Representatives Darko Klasic again, the government does not accept, please let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. Four of the same MPs, the government doesn't accept, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 5, Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government does not accept, and we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Six, the same club of representatives, the government doesn't accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 7, MPs Miro Bulj and Zvonimir Troscott, the government does not accept it, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 8th Representative Darko Klasic, the government does not accept, please let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. The 9th official, called Brumnic, does not accept the government, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. Ten. The Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the bill. The 11th amendment is the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club of Representatives, the government does not accept, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 12. The Green-left bloc's club does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. And the last 13th amendment of MP Darko Klasic's government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. So now let's vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the concession law, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 120 people voted, 120 MPs, 85 were in favour, 13 were abstentions and 22 were against it, and thus the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions was passed. Proposal for a law declaring the Nature Park Dinar, first reading, P.Z. No.6. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a law on the declaration of the Nature Park of Dinar and 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 122 MPs voted, 105 for, 17 abstentions, so we have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6552	Your Honor, Mr. President. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb at the 6th session held on 24 September 2020. 15 point K-69/16-8 is addressed to the president of HS for granting authorisation to continue the criminal proceedings against Nikola Grumoje of MPs in HS on charges brought by private prosecutor Ranko Ostojić over the crime of the libel of art. 149th century 2. KZ-11. Nikola Grumoja is a representative of the 10th convocation of HS and based on art. 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall have the immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the HS, it shall not be possible to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings. Following the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission under Article. 116. The Rules of Procedure of the HS proposes the adoption of the next decision "During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings before the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb is denied. 15 point K-69/16-8 against MP Nikola Grumoje on private charges by private prosecutor Ranko Ostojić over the crime of slander from the article. 149th century 2. Penalty law. Recital, the Court of Justice has taken the principle that, at the request of the DORH as an independent and independent judicial body which is required to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences, it should be approved for the initiation of criminal proceedings, and also for the court to conduct criminal proceedings in order to enable it to carry out the judicial authority independently and independently on the basis of the Constitution and the law. However, in the case of private prosecutors, the commission has taken the view that HS will propose a denial of approval. In particular, the Commission's view is that the Institute of Immunity established in order to protect the dignity of the mandate, not in order to protect the representatives as an individual, to conduct the criminal proceedings and any actions that would have to be taken in connection with this, could make it impossible for a representative to act as his regular representative, thereby affecting the work of HS. The criminal proceedings may continue after the term of office has expired, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6553	I thank my colleagues, Jankovic. I'm opening a debate. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6554	Here I had an obligation as an agent to report and discuss this case where my colleague Ostojić filed a complaint against our colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6555	You speak for the club or yourself?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6556	I can do it myself... the same. The big deal is the point of the Honorable Chairman. the functioning of the system and Croatian institutions. [[Incursion President: Just because of the time whether 10 or 5 minutes.]] I would just say that it is evident in this case that what Prime Minister former Milanovic said and the current president that institutions in the Republic of Croatia are mainly not functioning. that they know when DORH's investigations are being conducted in how it works and that it affects the conduct of certain investigations and that the interior minister was then the prosecutor's minister in this case at Nikola Grmojo Ranko Ostojic, and he was the prime minister who was then prime minister when Ranko Ostojic was interior minister, he was then, and Milanovic's statement reads that all investigations are being monitored, all known to the interior minister. He even told Bozinovic that he knows every second where anyone is, who is in the club, how many escorts of girls we pay for our money, so according to Prime Minister Milanovic, who we have no reason to believe, he is still the president and was the former prime minister that then his interior minister knew everything that we and how we operate within the Mosta. And that's the case in fact where he sued Nikola Grmoy that he had no effect on monitoring the work of the Bridge when he came when we were elected to the Parliament in the event of the negotiations that were being held at the time. In essence, Prime Minister Milanovic now confirmed that Ranko Ostojic knew everything at the time, all that he knew as interior minister. I would therefore point out from this speaker once again that institutions in the Republic are not functioning because, according to the President of the Republic who is responsible, partly responsible for the Intelligence Security Service, and therefore also for the implementation and supervision of the laws in the Republic of Croatia, mainly according to independent bodies such as the DORH and the Ministry of Interior should not know about investigations conducted and under the Constitution carried out by these bodies, which, which are the independent bodies and the judiciary, are the direct interference in the judiciary. He would once again point to the problem that we have in the Republic of Croatia on the functioning of institutions and that we parliamentary representatives must establish a commission to see the impact of the policy in this case was Ranko Ostojic, now a colleague of Bozinovic is the interior minister and to see what the impact of politics on state attorney's investigative actions that must be secret and other competent institutions that should carry out secret investigations. Because this isn't a small thing, when the president of the Republic of Croatia says he knows everything about investigations, that he knows everything about investigations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6557	Comrade Bulj, please, you're out of frame now, I'm letting you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6558	I'm not from the box this is about Ranko Ostojic, at the time Ranko Ostojic sued Nikola Grmoje.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6559	Yes, but let's stick to this lawsuit brought by colleague Ostojić against his colleagues, and let's not go into what is the current topic, which is the commission, you can talk about it now in free speech. I'm just asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6560	I would say once again that there is no one in Croatia, the people do not trust the judicial authorities for this, because of statements issued by outsiders that people at the top of the state know how investigations are conducted, and we must remember that Prime Minister Plenkovic also held a press conference with, in case of a daily with a state attorney. Therefore, at this point I call on you parliamentary representatives that we are the only defences left as the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security to stop this crisis of institutions and the impact of politics on independent bodies in the Republic of Croatia because Ranko Ostojic was then a minister like Bozinovic now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6561	Comrade Bacic, are you answering on behalf of the club too? Comrade Zurovec, you are individually reporting, colleague Hrebak, too, and we are now opening the debate obviously. Please record who signed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6562	Thank you, Mr. President. It is well known that the HDZ Club does not discuss the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission when requesting the removal of immunity from MPs on private charges. I must say that I was encouraged by my report on behalf of the club by my colleague Bulj, more so in his presentation, not to refer to the reasons why not to remove the immunity of his colleagues to Grmoji but to the need to establish an investigative commission in the Croatian Parliament in order to determine whether the executive authority has an impact on the authorities of the persecution in Croatia on the one hand and on the other hand on the breach of measures which, and we will see how the opposition will be elaborated in its request for an investigative commission, are breaching measures by the authorities while the measures are being carried out by the investigative bodies. But right now, I have to say that it would be good and I hope that in that motion on the decision of the opposition there will be this topic too. In fact, today we are not removing the immunity of our colleagues to Grmoja because in this lawsuit procedure against whom Mr. Ranko Ostojić accused him, he said that Mr. Grumoja slandered him because he had knowledge from PNUSKOK, that PNUSKOK was working on his colleague, Bozo Petrov, after the election. So I think it would be a good idea in this act in which the opposition will also make a decision to join the Croatian Assembly to examine the circumstances of how a colleague of Grumoja had knowledge from the service that the service would primarily question or monitor, monitor, monitor, process Mr. Bozo Petrov. We'd be interested in where counterpart Grmoy came from, so here I expect and I suggest that the opposition in his questions to be answered by the Commission and investigated, investigate how and from whom he received his colleague Grmoy and information, because he then called the Minister of the Interior Mr. Ranko Ostojić, that according to his mandate, PNUSKK was working on a colleague of Petrov, I think it's very important, perhaps since then, we're about to begin a kind of leak of information, and I hope that we will answer that through this investigative commission that will be formed here in the Croatian Parliament, if the establishment of such a commission is subject to legal conditions, given that Article 4 of the Law The constitutional committees are clearly told that the commission cannot, cannot deal with the issues for which the judicial procedure has been initiated. [[Intruder: A colleague of Bačić's now you've started to turn off the topic.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6563	Okay. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you, therefore, to stick to the subject, and the subject is what the Mandate-Immunity Commission report is, let's not spread the subject we have other formats of what it wants, which some MPs are talking about. It is now up to colleagues Hrebak, the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6564	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs would not want this to be seen as a certain kind of populism, however, citizens do expect strong messages from us. This particular colleague of Grmoja related to verbally obvious bickering is common so where Mr. Ranko Ostojić applied against him, it is one segment and he is so-called. I wouldn't call it a verbal delictom, a verbal delicacy of good luck we came out of those times when there was a verbal delict, but to take the same attitude to send a strong message. I'm saying I don't want to be a populist, but honestly with citizens in communication, citizens are disappointed, citizens are the ones who sent us Parliamentarians here to this high house to represent them. Which message we send when we see what kind of corruption affairs occur in which the presumption of innocence is valid, but in which some of our colleagues appear, and when we all have to meet here, we have to have 76 hands to remove someone's immunity for heavy corruption. What message is that? Why must we, as parliamentary representatives, be protected as face bears? I am aware that the constitution needs to be changed and that the constitution, it is not good for the constitution to change every little bit, but that after 25. The MPs sent here to this high house by the citizens have such immunity that even for the most severe corruption scandals we have to meet here to remove their immunity in order for the independent judiciary to continue to process those parts. In the sense of this verbal part, let's keep it, but for this most severe criminal act, I think we should still send a strong message as soon as possible, and I personally don't need to have parliamentary immunity, and I'm ashamed that I have a parliamentary immunity that prevents me, so that whatever happens, then I have to take off immunity and that in that segment, I'm kind of more privileged than any citizen who's elected us here. As far as this part is concerned, I'm going to be very brief in respect of this fact that the president himself said, this is not a topic. But as far as the parliamentary commission is concerned, we as liberals are for, there's nothing we've been hiding, and the prime minister himself said he has nothing to hide, that he knew nothing, and I'll be on that side, because I think absolutely executive power cannot and must not know anything about the reconnaissance. That's what our laws say, and no, it's scandalous to hear from some politicians to interpret that laws are one thing, but practice is something else. Well, we're not going to be able to work out the laws, we're not going to have the practice to determine, we're going to have a priority over the laws that are passed in this high house. So, we're absolutely for the commission. But what Mr. Derencinovic said does not give the law to give us power [[Intruder: Thank you colleague, colleague Hrebak, come on please]] It's getting into part of the executive government. [[Employer: A colleague of Hrebak]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6565	Come on, please, let's not abuse the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Oreskovic first, you two are from the club in the assembly, can only be one. Second, it's not your turn now... Yeah, but in the meantime, a colleague named Bauk called for a break, I'd call you. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] So, please be patient, please put on a mask and ask one of the two club members to leave the assembly. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6566	Mr. President, I'm looking for a break, but a real break of duration as long as you approve, and I suggest...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6567	Comrade Oreshkovic, I ask you to put on a mask. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6568	On behalf of the SDP Club, I ask for a break as long as you approve, I propose 10 minutes to consult within the club how we will participate in this debate. A routine debate on the removal of immunity due to a private lawsuit, which usually takes place on Thursday evenings, and only votes on Friday, will turn into a serious political debate on the major political issue and the biggest political topic in Croatia, which is the independence of institutions, which is not common for discussing the removal of immunity. So, this is not the trial of Ranko Ostojić, but this is the debate about whether the two of them will proceed during the term of Nikola's term or after, it's the only thing we're discussing here. But the debate went a little wrong and we're ready for her, but then 10 of us will call and we'll talk about what happened last week. There's no problem, and that's why I'm asking for a break for the club's session, to get on with it, to get on with it. Therefore, I propose that we end the debate to either vote or to continue the debate next week or we will discuss this all afternoon, but we will not discuss removing immunity, but we will discuss all the time what is in the focus of the Croatian public. So either we do it routinely to take off immunity on a private lawsuit like we've done before, or we'll discuss the metrics, and then all afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6569	Comrade Bauk, I agree with what you said. So this is now going beyond what the Rules of Procedure is about. So, I can't automatism forbid MPs to speak, they have the right to talk about this subject, but it's also my duty to warn them. That's what I did at the first three clubs that came forward, so I'm gonna keep doing it. So, I urge you not to do this because I will be forced to keep taking away the word, giving warnings, which I am not very glad about, but these are the rules of the game. So now we have a few more clubs and we have individual discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6570	I was looking for... I was really looking for a real break. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6571	I'll approve the break, yes. We'll continue at 13 o'clock and 10 minutes. It's the 13th.02 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13,10 HOURS]] I'm just warning if this turns into a debate about some other subjects, and not what's measured then we won't vote today, so we'll let the debate go as far as you want, that if it takes until late evening, but I'll consider this a classic abuse, and I'll have to do the same as chairing that setting. So let's go in line, first respected colleague Dalia Oreskovic, party representatives with a name and last name, Smart and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6573	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I would also like to point out that all of us, as representatives, should have equal rights to present our arguments and to show ourselves about what is on the agenda regardless of what is called in the mandates of the previous old class representatives, have become accustomed to voting on certain points of the agenda according to a certain standard and according to a certain habit. As far as the specific subject is concerned, I support the view that private lawsuits do not remove immunity because this can indeed lead to abuse and that the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body cannot carry out its basic task. As far as I'm aware, when immunity is removed from other criminal acts, I can see that there was no obstacle to that immunity being removed quickly and effectively. The problem isn't actually at the institute of this immunity of fellow MPs Hrebak, but in what happens afterwards. Our public fat sees that the judiciary doesn't work, that criminal proceedings don't work. When we look at what's happening these days, and it's connected to a specific agenda topic as much as this private lawsuit is driven by the evidence of the state of our institutions and how the state functions as a whole. And that's what we need to talk about. So, citizens don't see that...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6574	Comrade Oreshkovic, I'm sorry to interrupt. My colleague, Glasovac, therefore, states on the application itself that MPs must apply in person. Wait a minute, please report yourself, others you can't report... Fellow Voter, I ask you nicely [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Comrade Voter, you're getting your first warning, please get out of here now. [[Intruder: So when they get to sit in the assembly, they'll be able to come here for your table.]] It's a rule that applies to everything equally, clearly writes to you, filled out and signed application to hand over personally to the president's desk, what they signed Well, because, because the crown is dear Mrs. Voter, it's the crown. [[Intruder: And why did you throw them all over the assembly building, so they couldn't?]] I don't know if you're aware of this...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6575	... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6576	I will now interrupt the work of the Croatian Parliament today, given that this does not make any sense, it will complete its presentation of counterpart Dalia Oreskovic. We'll interrupt the vote then, and we'll continue on Wednesday. Although we still have free speech, we must do it, but we will end this point with the presentation of colleague Oreshkovic... so because, behold, I cannot do this in a mess that is knowingly created, knowingly create disorder I cannot preside under such conditions. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So if we're not going to be collegiate and fair to each other, then we can't even work. So, please fellow Voter, sit down, the rules of the game are clear, they apply to everyone and please sit down. Let us allow our colleague Dalia Oreshkovic to continue with her presentation, if conditions are created again, and I ask you to help me with this, then we can continue to work. You'll get a second warning now, and if you continue like this, I'll have to regret it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6577	... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6578	I'll ask you not to leave alone. Well, this is amazing that you're allowing this, I thought, I thought you were a decent representative, but obviously you're not, no you're not. So since you don't understand that the rules are such that the MP and the representative personally submits the application, you submit... You are now receiving a third warning from your colleagues, and you can no longer participate in the debate. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Please proceed, colleague Oreshkovic. Here you go, talk to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6579	Okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6581	So I think that today I will remember for the rest of my life, as the day when the carrying of the papers that someone is applying for a debate in the Croatian Parliament or the fact that the mask is removed from the face 2 metres away or for this speaker has become a more important topic and a greater problem of the jurisdiction and way of functioning of institutions than the fact that the state is being led out of an illegal basement. Of the fact that the legislative, executive and judicial authorities meet in a secret club where they eat, drink, receive bribes, give bribes, don't pay bills, but the money counter is behind the counter, and we're talking about citizens' confidence in institutions. We're talking about whether or not the information leaks, and maybe even the girls from pure frustration, which, after the big criminal affairs, is nothing going on. Is that a bigger problem, or is there a problem with the congestion of information where the information should be? Isn't there a problem with the work of the Security Intelligence Agency? What have the president of the state and the Prime Minister been doing for months? Isn't it time for their head of Secret Service to be called in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6582	Comrade Oreshković, please don't stick to the subject It's happening right now, just a little please, it's happening exactly what I announced, you don't respect the Rules of Procedure. [[Orešković: This is topic number one.]] So, as chairman, it is my duty to stick to the Rules of Procedure, in the Rules of Procedure. In 238, he says, "Advocacy shall not be allowed during the debate", he must not "talk about a subject which is not subject to discussion". It keeps repeating itself now, it's done on purpose, it's designed because it's trying to draw attention to itself. So I can't let that happen as chairman because that's what the Rules of Procedure says. And I ask you not to do it, neither you nor any other MPs or MPs, but I have warned some. If this continues now I'm really going to have to interrupt the session because this doesn't really make any sense and we're sending a very bad message. The citizens now think that we ourselves do not stick to the acts and justifiably think about what we have brought here, so why should they respect the Constitution, the laws and all that is necessary for the rule of law to function? So please stick to the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6583	Indeed, why should our citizens adhere to a law written in low-profile clubs? I'm going to finish my presentation now, and I believe that all the MPs who signed up for the speech behind me wanted to say about the main problem and the main topic these days that's been bothering the state. If it won't be a pay phone in HS, there'll be another platform through which to say what has to be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6584	So, a proposal of this last comment, after we have finished, there is a free debate on clubs and individual representatives, so anyone who wants to speak their mind and on this topic concerning this famous club, can do so in a five-minute debate that is designed for the representatives to comment on the current topics. So, please, once again, all those of you who are telling you to stick to Rules of Procedure. In 238, then, no one has been denied the right to speak of anything they want, but he cannot speak of anything he wants at the moment when it is predicted what must be spoken of. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6585	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. First, I'd apologize to Mr. Bukarica for thanking her for the chemically when I borrowed her, but you didn't hear me, and you couldn't even see the mime's mouth since I had a mask. I'd take another chance, I'd ask the President of Parliament, I sent a letter based, based on science that I don't need to wear a mask, you didn't answer me, so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6586	Here I will inform you immediately, so my colleague Zekanovic asked whether he must wear the mask as a person who has been over COVID-19 and I will report your inquiry to HZJZ and ask whether you should do it or not because I do not feel professional enough that I can answer your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6587	Yes, thank you for that. I respect your decision and look forward to the opinion of HZZ. So today we're talking about colleague Nikola Grumoja and what is practice, and we all know that immunity isn't being taken down when there's a private lawsuit and of course we're going to protect our colleague in this case, that's what makes sense and that's what everyone else is going to do, and even I guess even I'm colleagues from the SDP regardless of what their member, senior member and fellow prosecutor. And this is a place where there is a political attitude on all topics and on the subject of Nikola Grumoja, a colleague of Ostojic, but sometimes it is difficult not to connect more topics that are current. But I'm not going to go off topic because here we're actually always talking about some kind of lawsuits or prosecutors and prosecutors. I will agree here with my colleagues that in this place, this pay phone should discuss the key topic, which is political responsibility. Political responsibility to whom? Andrej Plenkovic, let him interrupt me now, Andrej Plenkovic. For what? For corruption affairs that rock Croatian society for days and days, weeks and weeks. We're forgetting these affairs, they're coming down after each other. We forget about Joseph the Roman, we forget about Sanader, and we just want to talk about these affairs from this place, and we don't have a chance because there's no discussion about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6588	My colleague Zekanovic, please, I have now spoken longer about what should not be done and must not be done in accordance with Article. 238, you're doing it now. You're putting me in an impossible situation, so I can't let you do that because if I let you do that then any topic, so it would be a plumbing or a sewer or anything else, could be used to talk about what you're talking about then and what you're talking about right now. So, the topic is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, the topic is not current affairs. You can talk about current affairs when this point ends in free speech. So it's the only rule that exists to stick to the subject, and free speech is a time in which you can say whatever you want. So use that right I call you when the free speech comes, but at this point I have to protect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6589	Okay. Here is the Honorable President of the Parliament I will no longer mention Andrej Plenkovic and the Janaf affair, I won't even discuss it anymore, only here I would point to a little bit of business, here I will use the opportunity not to remind me, please, when there was that greatest rush of the crown crisis, there were more of us in the assembly, now that the crown is not such a bogeyman is in the assembly less. I would ask that we also adjust these measures a little bit so that twice as many MPs can attend the sessions because this really makes it impossible for us to work, so one democratic work of HS is impossible, and here I am asking you to take care of it and allow us to work, to be in the assembly as much as there was at the beginning of the coronary crisis, and there were more of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6590	Okay. Let's move on, just like this, let me tell you today we're not voting on this point, but we're going to open a debate that's going to take so long, and then we're going to vote on this next time. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6591	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course I won't be angry, and if we continue on Wednesday night, I won't even think you did it for me. The SDP representative club has been acting in the same way as other clubs in the Croatian Parliament for a number of years on the subject of the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report with certain minor exceptions, which is to vote to remove immunity when requested by the DORH and not vote to remove immunity when requested by private prosecutors regardless of whether the private prosecutor is a member of our party or who is sued by a private prosecutor is a member of our party or even a member of another party. I think you've made one mistake that I hope is random, which is that you've put this debate on Fridays in prime time, as it is said, because you'll remember for sure that in the last session, we had immunity in Pernar because of the graphite on the trafosce station we discussed for four hours, because it was a debate on Fridays. MPs are a little more motivated to discuss Fridays in the middle of the day than Thursday nights. So let's say last Thursday night we discussed removing immunity for three MPs plus two more detentions and the debate lasted for a short time. Everyone said what they had wasn't some excessively large need for, for debate because it was more or less clear. And now it's more or less clear than you're putting this debate on at this time instead of being a government, are the topic of Ostojic and Grmoja. And I'm sorry that my colleague Bulj didn't resist the siren's call to answer the debate, and then my colleague Bacic didn't resist the siren's call to report for the debate, and we all knew when this debate would last and there wouldn't be a debate at all about what the debate was about. So it's not a good introduction to any kind of investigative commission because you can see what it's going to look like, but it doesn't matter. Now a little bit about the metrics. So, it is not Ranko Ostojić's immunity that is being removed here, but rather the debate is being held on whether Nikola Grumoja's immunity will be removed because he said something about Ranko Ostojic a few years ago, and his colleague Ostojic is thought to be defamatory and seeking protection in court. Both know that when the term of office of Nikola Grumoji is over, I wish him long health and a long political career, then it may not be current anymore, but as you can see, these things are more or less always current. After a few years, we came right into a topic that is day-to-day political. So, if I understand Mr. Bulj correctly, the theme is that Mr. Grumoja said that the then interior minister had something to do with PNUSKOK. It's been a few years, he's no longer a minister, and no state body has investigated whether he ordered it. Why? Well, because he didn't order, very simply, that's a logical answer to me. And if he didn't order it then there was, there was a logical answer to determine, or it was, that a colleague of Grumoja apologized or that it had his own court epilogue. But I'm not sure that this will be investigated by an investigative committee, because if someone has ordered something illegal, he has committed some kind of criminal act that is being prosecuted under official duty, and this is not an investigation of the council, nor of the investigative commission. It's investigated by the police, the state's attorney's office, and in the end, if that happens, the court decides. This is not a question of who knew what, it's a question of whether someone ordered something, whether it affected the judicial process or whether it was the investigation process when it wasn't meant to. And if I understood correctly that I was insinuating that someone was being followed while the government process was being established in 2015, it was insinuating. If they were colleagues of MOST's a little paranoid back then, that's what I remember always saying someone was following them but not us. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues today will not vote, today they will have little debate on institutions. Of course, this debate won't make us hesitate to step down from what, as a big party, those smaller and newer clubs can be a little flabby about it, so let's say we have to lift everybody's immunity or we need to discuss everything or, but that's not how the state can work. I think that the way we've worked so far with the MIP cases was correct, that there were no big exceptions only in 2011 I think to want Jovanovic's immunity because he told HDZ what he said, but it wasn't continued, it was the only private case of HDZ against one MP when the HDZ majority took off one representative's immunity. It is also a question of what is happening with independent institutions probably will have some judicial epilogue as well. Perhaps in this case, one of us has lost the word of insinuating and accusing someone of abuse and don't be surprised if someone goes to defend himself and it will be the same in court. I just hope there won't be any debates like this that will take a while. Therefore, to return to the topic, Mr President, thank you for not warning me that I am out of the picture even though I was, this SDP club will vote in favour of a proposal by the Mandate-Immunity Commission not to remove the immunity of my colleague Nikola Grumoji and we will continue to cooperate for, with the other opposition parties on the establishment of the investigation committee, then we will have to continue to cooperate with the parliamentary majority, regardless of whether at some point our opposition colleagues will point their blade towards us, but it is not that we will not defend ourselves, and it is not that we will not ask this, they were, they were also, they were still Minister of the Interior, Mr Orepic was their member when he was the Minister of Internal Affairs and during the time the law was passed on Agrokor. Therefore, we have some knowledge of this, too, will be interesting. Here, fellow Bull, so we could all be home, but you didn't resist, so now we're going to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6592	Okay, now we have individual discussions, so we have 10 of them. I won't allow it again, I repeat that we are leaving the topic which is our topic, which is a report by the MIP, so I would like to invite possibly representatives and MPs who will be willing to withdraw their debate, because I don't think there is a need and I agree with what my colleague Bauk said, and I think that the practice so far has been correct and we use this kind of debate for something else entirely. Here you go, Comrade Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6593	Thank you, Mr. President. This was very interesting for...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6594	You can go there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6595	Thank you, Mr. President. This was a very nice debate, but at the end of the day, we might have gotten away from the real metrics, from the real metrics. In fact, we are all here people who are supposed to answer to the Croatian people. If we answer to the Croatian people regardless of whether these are private lawsuits, I don't think we have to be afraid at all to remove all our immunity. If we really do everything in our conscience, if it's really right, we have nothing to fear, no matter what individuals are concerned about, no matter what criminal acts or lawsuits are at all. And as for the very dangers of prison or the judiciary, here's some information. By the independence of the judiciary we are in a fantastic 126th place of the 141st country, and the effectiveness of the legal framework is, here is amazing, 140th place of 141. In this dispute between Mr. Gromoj and Ostojić, one of them eventually ends up in prison, so it can't theoretically happen. We can literally have you walking into Remetinec and they'll probably send you out because you're an unwanted guest, even if you're a criminal or anything else, so I don't think there's any point at all. And at the end of it all, I think that we should all act together with a little more respect for each other, in the end, whether we ideologically or on any economic subject we agree or disagree on, I think we can also argue more normally than we have in the past few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6596	Before his colleague Bulja, a colleague of Škoro asked for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6597	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. The MPs of the Homeland Movement came to this high home with a desire to really contribute to the development of democracy and quality debate. We are sorry that it has come to this that one truly benign thing like this that we should have voted on is this much of a debate. I am looking for a break in time that you grant us to consult additionally for the simple reason that we have not been prepared for this, but it is evident that there is a certain amount of frustration in both MPs and MPs, as well as in the Croatian public, on certain issues, so I suggest that you, as speaker of the assembly, call perhaps the presidency, so that at some point we can discuss whether this should be given more space. And as for the MP of the Homeland Movement, we're simply not prepared to discuss this guy, this content, and we're looking for a break for consultation and see if we're going to stay at a further session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6598	So I'm not gonna let the debate beyond what's topic. This topic has already been in the parliamentary sessions for sure over 10 times, and what is beyond the topic we can discuss, there is no need in the presidency, there is a clear way that these topics can be discussed through the establishment of an investigative commission, through a proposal of clubs which then 60 days, I have to put them on the agenda if there are enough representatives who have signed, so all forms already exist within the Rules of Procedure. So we keep working, I understand what you're trying to say, but once again I call everything just stick to the subject. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6599	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, when I was talking about this topic where mostly every time private lawsuits are dropped into HS, then I was just about to say not what my colleague Bauk says is talking about SDP ministers only or HDZ's or HNS's, but in the part where everyone participated, it's not important, here it's important that the non-functioning of judicial institutions that have to be independent, which must be those institutions that no one will have any influence over it. And the contradictions that occur in the public of two key people in the Republic of Croatia who are responsible for secret services and for the ministries that are responsible for us as a council, then we should discuss it, then we should discuss whatever it is. I think, Mr. President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, I think that when these discussions are triggered by any lawsuits, when we see the money being shared in basements and clubs and how they behave and how half the government, half the government, all the ministers were at the club where our money was paid to escorts... these governments now by denying my colleague Bauk that I'm helping someone, no, but institutions don't. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] National security and internal policy are not working. This is the chairman of the board, I call on him to call a session, the state doesn't function, and the citizens don't trust him. to institutions and the judiciary [[Agreement: colleague Bulj]] and that is my primary goal is the statement by the president and the prime minister [[Agreement: colleague Bulj]] lead to an existential crisis. [[Agreement: colleague Bulj]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6600	Thank you. This is what I invite you to speak in 5 minutes of free speech. Let's move on now, colleague Michel Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6601	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, good day, nice greeting to all, so first of all, and the debate that took place on this point shows how much there is currently enough of this, I will make fun of myself, wild in the air and how much the question of how our institutional framework will continue to work, and this also raises certain rights that parliamentary representatives have acquired by entering the Croatian Parliament. As an SDP, I can say that we have agreed and immediately before that we will support the uzances or rules that existed before, and that is why I am sorry that we have come to this debate, but obviously that what is engulfing the public these days has been able to move on to this topic and this debate. I can say that the opposition also communicates about a potential investigative commission that at the level of the board and for the judiciary and internal policy and national security we communicate both as an opposition and with the ruling majority to see what we can do together and show the citizens that we have been elected here to protect the institutions of this country and to finally create a normal and legal Republic, but as a SDP who is now in the first term in the assembly, which is the mayor of Koprivnica, I do not think that it is possible for me to agree that this is how the ministers of 2015, who in 2007, who in 2001, and I can only say that, regardless of what they are now doing about Grmoja and Ostojić that my colleagues from MOST are still a little persuasion of what they were, who were the governments in which they were also Joseph Romec, and the governments who appointed to the functions of Dragan Kovac. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6602	Let's move on. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6603	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So this is to get there, to pick up where my colleague Jaksic ended up, so this should be a purely technical point. And there are no unwritten rules, some practice that has been so far. So, DORH every time he asks for a removal of immunity we've been for it, the private prosecutor doesn't. Some here have said that they are ashamed to have immunity, some have said that we are not responsible for Croatian citizens, but those who speak and express such attitudes and such thesis obviously do not know what immunity means in practice. Immunity for a spoken word just now guarantees that without fear here in the assembly you can express your opinion, your position, what presses the citizens to ensure at the end of the day your freedom of work, that you can do what the citizens have chosen you to do. At the end of the day, as colleagues before me have said, we will, of course, support the position of the Mandate-Immunity Commission as we have always and so far done no matter what names are here in the story, no matter what our member's doing and would have done so and that some other names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6604	Comrade Vukas, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6605	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, so it is not disputed that the SDP Club will support the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposal, however, as my colleagues Jaksic and Hajdukovic said, the point is that after Ranko Ostojic was the minister and Vlaho Orepic, after Vlaha Orepic was also current Minister Davor Bozinovic, and the fact is that things are not being resolved. The problem is the state that the simple judiciary doesn't work, the judiciary doesn't work, and we are today on a technical issue where more or less 80% of us agree that the Mandate-Immunity Commission is being supported, that immunity is not lifted, and we are now getting hold of those key issues of establishing the Assembly's commission in case of leaks of information. We know what happened in the Agrokor case, so the fact is that the system doesn't work. We will certainly be on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Miro that without you calling now when we do, we will call on it, but the fact that about one technical question we have come up with is what we are essentially concerned about, and that is the failure of the rule of law, we have practically forgotten when my colleague Ostojić was a minister, and that is today the main issue, whether the minister has ordered some PNUSKOK to follow Nikola Grumoy in transition, in transition to the transition of a political option to power. So we will support it, but all this together points to a deep, deep state, the inaction of all systems in the republic and the state, and above all to the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u6606	Now you should speak to your colleague Fabianic, he is gone so he loses his right to speak, Zeljko Pavić's colleague is also not here to lose his right to speak. Then I'll conclude the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We're moving now to free speech by clubs, first should speak colleague Dretar, not here losing speech, second colleague William Matula, I don't see him either, so he loses both speech rights and in the name of the SDP Club respected It's over, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: colleague Marić is on...]] And I'm also sorry, she's not here right now, so we're done with the debate, and my colleague Puljak is not here either, he's losing his speech, and I'm finishing today, and I'll see you Wednesday. [[Intruder: A colleague of Marić is on her way from the Ban Jelačić hall.]] Session interrupted at 13.45 p.m. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on integrated access to security, protection and services at football matches and other sports events, second reading, P.Z. No. 17. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I would like to say that 121 MPs, 96 for, 11 abstentions and 14 against, have voted, and the Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on integrated access to security, protection and services at football matches and other sports events has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7233	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Sovereign Club because we need to consult further, given that we did not get an explanation from the promoter whether in the new university that we support this university to build up, programmically process topics from the Homeland War, especially the theme of the contribution of the strong power of the MUP, defence and freedom of the Croatian homeland, which has not been the case so far. Secondly, we must also consult on how to predict models to prevent the honorary university from coming as lecturers or guests lecturers of people who do not respect the Republic of Croatia Constitution, the Declaration of Homeland War, who believe that the Homeland War is a civil war, means auditors, charlatans, forgers of history such as Dejan Jovic and other great Serbs. And thirdly we certainly support the proposal of the university to be our great man who after the 9th century achieved the freedom of the Croatian state Dr. Francis Tudjman, and deep down with disgust, we condemn every libel to his account, and we ask you, Mr. President, to react without delay to such spills in this honorable home.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7234	I thank my colleague Sacic, the break has been approved but we will approach the vote immediately, so I repeat the conclusion once again. First, the proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security, second all objections and proposals, will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 119 MPs, 89 for, 2 abstentions and 28 against, have voted, so we have reached the conclusion that, as proposed by the working bodies. Annual Defence Report 2019. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Annual Defence Report 2019 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 123 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 46 were abstentions, and that means that a conclusion was reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7403	We are going to the following point, which is: - Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2019 Reports submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 37. The law on official statistics. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Hello Zrinasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7404	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As far as this report is concerned, I'd just like to say that eight years ago it was. In early 2013, the National Statistics Institute presented the strategy for the development of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia for the period '13. - '22. which defines the mission, vision and general and specific strategic objectives of the Croatian statistical system. With regard to the quality and timeliness of statistical data and cost and efficient collection, processing and timely dissemination, i.e. The transmission or dissemination of statistical data reflects the mission while the vision itself, a certain vision of the State Statistics Institute, is based on the objectives of efficiency and innovation in the performance of tasks, the application of modern technologies and electronic forms of communication, involvement in social and economic phenomena of user orientation. The Institute of Statistics, in cooperation with other holders of official statistics, develops a draft multi-annual programme for medium-term planning purposes, a programme document entitled ‘The programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia’, which is adopted by the Croatian Parliament. The programme lists the main results of the serviced statistics and the most important development activities to be achieved, and this report is the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia '18-20. based on the needs of users and EU requirements. Therefore, the purpose of official statistics is the continuous development of statistics and the production and dissemination of statistics in accordance with the basic principles of official statistics, and one of the main tasks of the statistical system is the efficient and timely preparation and dissemination of quality statistics reflecting economic and social phenomena and processes and providing users with a reliable source for the analysis of existing states and decision-making. Official statistics are therefore important not only in national but also in international contexts, as it is possible to compare the comparison of certain aspects of social and economic development with other countries. Following the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, a special emphasis is placed on the integration of the statistical system of the Republic of Croatia into the European Statistical System and on enabling the comparability of the statistics of the Republic of Croatia with the data of the EU Member States. On the basis of the Law on Official Statistics, the State Office, with the opinion of the Statistical Council, draws up a draft report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan and the following reports by the holder of official statistics, i.e. the Ministry and other bodies of the State Administration. In accordance with that draft draft of this report, the report was discussed and unanimously accepted at the meeting of the statistical council of the Republic of Croatia on 10 June of this year and the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan for this year was the second report covering the period covered by the statistical activities programme '18-20. and provides information on the activities carried out by the overall statistical system and gives an overview of the most significant development activities as well as the most interesting results of statistical research. In addition to the National Bureau of Statistics which is the main holder, disseminator and coordinator of the system of official statistics under the Law on official statistics and statistical activities programmes, the holders of official statistics are defined, in this case it is the CNB, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Ministry of Agriculture and HZJZ. The following best European practice related to the annual reporting of national statistical offices is the report for 2019 structured in 2 parts. The first part, other than the introduction in which the statistical field is briefly described, contains an overview of those studies where improvements or development activities have been carried out in the production processes of official statistics, such as improving the methodology of audits, introducing new or modifying existing research to comply with national or European standards. The second part shall contain a list of all planned activities in the statistical fields including a review of their implementation and any explanations that the survey has not been fully carried out or in accordance with the defined deadline set out in the annual implementation plan. In accordance with the Law on Official Statistics and the annual implementation plan, three types of research are prescribed. Statistical research based on direct data collection, then statistical surveys from administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring, and thirdly are development activities, lists and other extensive statistical surveys. For 2019, the annual implementation plan provided for a total of 284 statistical activities of which 164, based on direct data collection, were then 82 based on administrative data sources and 38 development activities. Of these 284 the State Statistics Office planned to implement 233, while the other holders had 51 statistical activities. As regards the State Statistics Institute as the main institution, it is logical that there are also the most of these statistical activities and of these planned 200, 281, no 3 statistical activities have been carried out in the area of macro-economic statistics, i.e. methodology and calculation of the value of long-term assets of Croatia, the production of annual non-financial accounts by institutional sectors and the production of quarterly non-financial accounts by institutional sectors. These activities were not carried out until the end of 2019 due to the shift of time limits for the implementation of these activities by Eurostat. The new deadline was set on March 31st this year, which was, and until then, implemented, and as a result of further increases in commitments towards Eurostat and limited human resources, which, by the way, is constantly going through the State Statistics Institute reports year after year. Other official statistics holders carried out all the activities planned by the annual plan, so 51 of them. According to the fields of statistical research and projects in 2019, they refer to 6 areas, namely business statistics, demographic and social statistics, macroeconomic statistics, agriculture statistics, forestry and fisheries statistics, then statistics for several areas and ultimately support statistical output, and would only mention that the two most common areas, which are business statistics and demographic and social statistics, have the most research, the business of 100, and demographic and social statistics of 74. For the implementation of all these activities in 2019, the Institute planned 106.2 million kuna, 94.7 million kuna, 89.11% of total planned funds or almost at the same level as for 2018. It should be recalled that the State Statistics Institute, in line with the general statistical objectives, continuously seeks to increase the level of user involvement in the statistical activity definition process. A active participation and involvement of stakeholders are an important prerequisite for further development and improvement of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia, especially with regard to meeting user needs. Finally, by virtue of the Law on Official Statistics, in addition to making a decision on this report, it is submitted through the Government of the Republic of Croatia through HS. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7405	Thank you. Please stay because we have several replicas on your exhibit, the first of which is Honorable Representatives Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7406	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So, when it comes to statistics, in 2021, there will be one challenging year, the year in which, as you have stated in this report, the year in which a list will be worked and people on the ground because there will be no quality data available in another way, so I'm interested in what activities you have so far taken, how many people in the context of the crown and in the context of some new, new normal, whether you've thought about any other ways, about some other methodology, because it's going to be hard for everyone to ring the door, it's going to be hard for those who are in the apartments, but also for those who are going to work the field, so I'm wondering what, has already been made, some sort of agreement was, something to think about some new scenarios to say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7407	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7408	Here's a thank you to the honourable representative on the matter. So, as you know, the population census law in 2021 was a premise for the implementation of the census itself, it was usually constructed as in previous periods when lists were made. In the meantime, this test study has been conducted in terms of population censuses so that new methodology techniques can verify and possibly address some shortcomings in the test section. In that sense, it is clear that in the context of this particular crisis itself, this list will take place a little more complex than it has ever been before, but otherwise it has been predicted that this list might also be the last to be carried out on the ground, and that informationally, as it will now be in terms of the use of the e-Citizen system, this list would be implemented through the e-Citizens system where almost 800,000 people using that system are now estimated to be approximately 10,000 It will be directly or indirectly included in the list. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7409	The Republic also has a representative, Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7410	Good afternoon. I want to know first of all why the State Statistics Service doesn't produce cross-sectoral analysis. So, analysis of the effects of individual sectors on domestic employment, income, potential and positive economic impacts, increase in added value, increase in employment, etc., so we have some standardised statistics that we are not fully benefiting from. Only for comparison, so such input, the way the analysis was done in the 1960s, the '70s, the '80s for specifics, means economic branches and so on for shipbuilding when we were third in the shipbuilding world, was done in such cross-sectoral analysis. So, business branches, specific industries that have an effect on other industries and have positive multiplier effects because it doesn't mean that we just have one informational, let's say, firm that It's good, I think. [[Intruder: Thank you]] in his area. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7411	Dear Secretary of State Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7412	Thank you very much for your question, the question is quite logical in terms of the reflection of a particular economic branch and industry, however you will, on someone else or ultimately on the whole economy. As I was saying in the introduction, the law has been amended in terms of EU legislation, in this case it is directly applicable so-called. EU Regulation 223 of 2009 standardising the State Statistics Institute's procedures in the context of this report and, in the light of the comparability of these data at the level of all EU Member States and the integration of such data at EU level, which means that these data must be horizontally or vertically linked at EU level. Of course, at the micro-level, they're going to look at it, connecting these researches, I don't have the data on me, which all research has the State Statistics Office, but it's reasonable to expect that kind of thing to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7413	Thank you very much. Does he want the committee's reporters to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge will speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7414	Thank you very much. Honorable colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with their associates. Dear citizens. Here, we talk about statistics, about DZS, statistics are numbers, and these numbers should also direct Croatian policies. Is it just the goal of making statistics for statistics or is the goal of speaking in health services, health care has problems and these, basic statistics or every time, as statistical indicators go out, we have fewer doctors, worse and worse services in the area of the Republic of Croatia, and when we talk about agriculture, for example. Statistical indicators in agriculture, so here we will say that over the last 10 years, 64,000 family economies that were involved in dairy production have now come to several thousand, it's one-digit, I think it's come to 3, 4 thousand family economies, which means 20 times less in the last 10 years of milk production. Or if we're talking about unprocessed agricultural land, e.g. We've got 700 thousand acres of raw agricultural land, and the statistics are dropping. And what happens when the statistics are out? Are you doing something about these poor statistical indicators? We're also referring to the population list. If you continue to do so on the basis of statistical indicators from year to year, you will literally not need a census, for example. in Slavonia, Dalmatinska Zagora, Gorski Kotar and Lici. You won't have anyone to sign up because statistical indicators must and the results of this, these statistics must be directed towards development of the Republic of Croatia in all segments. If we're talking demographics, then we see that demographic decline is terrible. I repeat it always here, only in Dalmatian Zagora, from Krka to Neretva, since the counties were formed, we have 100,000 people we have less. Come through, you'll see. In the Drinski region, the Knin region, the Cetin region, go right down to Vrgorec imotski end and you will see that there are more Imogens, Sinjana, Cetinjana in Ireland, in Zagreb and it is good if they are in Zagreb, we will not talk about Split, but are more in Ireland, Germany and I do not know where to earn their bread, near our fertile country, near my Sinjsko polje, near Petro's field, near Kninski polje, near the Imotski polje, near Vrgorsko polje. If statistical indicators say that the importers of food production are never bigger, milk, meat, and we have no cattle, our stock fund has fallen, then you bring us this report every year to read your report by respecting your work of statisticians who do your work quality. But what policy is based on the statistical indicators that are being done and that come to us. Do we even have policies on that? We don't. We don't, I'm telling you, we don't. Because everything is reduced to statistics outside of statistics, outside statistical indicators, I would ask you, if you can somehow find it, statistics within clubs like the club of JANAF's boss. There's statistics being brought in sacks of money, escort ladies with money, with money paid by those citizens who had to invest to survive there. For such natural resources, statistical indicators should be relevant. To direct all policies, that's the basis, so the basis of statistics isn't to get us here on the report of dry numbers and that every year we vote like, statistics are done. Well, of course, colleagues from the statistical office,.../incomprehensible/... if I'm not mistaken, have done their job as much as possible in accordance with the capacities and technical capabilities they have, human capacities and everything. But what is the result, Prime Minister? What's the score? What's the result every year? What's the result of agriculture, I'm interested in. Here. Did you get anything out, except that you never gave any more incentives to farmers and never less production? I'll say it again, I'll repeat it by the end of this term. Because you give incentives for, to people who do cattle, to opgs who don't know, to owners of opgs who are never.../incomprehensible/... cows in life. They don't know how many cows have tits. While people who deal in the field with the production of milk, cattle holding, they absolutely can't get to that land to be stimulated in the karst area. I can't get a chance. But someone opens up the OPG, gets given whole mountains, hectares, hectares, it's solved with Croatian forests, some minor fee and huge money goes into pockets that don't deal with production, example, meat. And that's the problem, import lobbys are the problem. And statistical indicators as the indicators themselves, we comment on them here every year, and I'm in the Parliament, this is 5 years. Five years. Five years in the Parliament, each year we bring and raise our hands,.../incomprehensible/... statistical indicators as they are. Speaking of demographics. So what measures have you taken in terms of demographics? What measures? Apart from coming to Split, Prime Minister Plenkovic every 4 years before the local elections and always promises the same projects for the development of the Dalmatian Zagora, the island, Slavonia and then keeps the story, here we will now build the road to Drništa, here... I haven't given amendments here in four years for the documentation road. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the road, the Drnish-Knin-Sinj compound. The Cetinski end, Imotski, from Zagvozd to Imotski, did not accept it the other day, came the prime minister to solve this problem and comes behind it and repeats 5 billion kuna investment will be in Dalmatia in Split-Dalmatia County, and three years ago the government's meeting in Split, all these projects were promised infrastructure, irrigation. Here I'm curious about how much irrigation there is in Croatia, is it 1%? How far will you reach? You'll be 1.1% by the end of the term. So every election cycle is promised the same projects. I did it once, and I'll do it again, and I'll do it again, and I'll tell them not to have any expenses on all the promised projects I'll lay stone foundations for them. Is an example if people, if we know what we need for the survival of people in the Cetina region, if we need the irrigation of the Sinj field, if we have the Sinj field where the clear river Cetina goes, more Cetina rivers in one day cast clear waters than all Israeli springs in a year. Israel watered, and the field of Sinai is not. Imagine if someone came from Israel or from somewhere and saw that the field of Sinai was not watered. Drought in the Sinj field in the srid lite. So is that possible? Who's gonna stay here? Who's gonna be competitive? But give incentives to those who don't deserve it, which is, in the case of the Roman, a highly respected secretary, that you were in these clubs when you agreed, I don't know, I don't know. I see in clubs that there were most ministers and now you're competing to tell who. Ćorić... I was at the club, this one was, you were all by those clubs where of our money, the money of the people paid escort lady from Stipe Mesic, Zoran Milanovic, Ćorić, your minister did not know if he was him. Here I'm asking you were you at those clubs and were the statistical indicators used there when you were handing out the loot to set up public procurement? I want to know what the statistical indicators of the Croatian government are, and what is it doing on all matters? The economy, here is the mention of shipbuilding, so 20 years ago from Sinj to Split to Split Shipyard went 60 buses, and today a van goes half empty. When we were building highways, the Split Ironworks collapsed, we imported gram from Turkey, not into highways, viaducts, a tunnel from the Split Ironworks. The import lobby was doing its job import-exporting, what a worker, what a laborer, what a peasant, what a survival of the people with the technology we had, were people working in the Split Ironworks after all. That's right with mammals, that's right with Rafineria Sisak, so with all the key strategic projects in certain areas that serve to develop and survive these people. Statistical indicators as indicators represent something to us, unfortunately they are negative, health, economy, demographics, agriculture. From year to year, we listen here that we are presented with statistical indicators that respect the effort, it is a list of numbers of ladies from the DZS, but these results absolutely mean absolutely nothing if the Croatian policy has only one in mind, before the elections to invent certain projects, the Slavonia project, and they combine it into some EU projects, so when it is, and while they promise it to the Dalmatian burning projects, while they will not triangulate statistics mainly on demographics, is there going to be no inhabitants. Two-thirds of Croatia are burned, burned ground because of your policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7415	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the green-left bloc on behalf of which MP Katarina Peovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7416	Good afternoon, everyone. The subject of statistics usually sounds quite dry and uninteresting, but I must assure you that this may be one of the key topics for Croatia's economic development policy and for social equality and solidarity, although it may not be from the very title of this debate. Statistics should play a more important role in us than they do now, and I will look back at these two key aspects, the assumption of economic development policies for which statistics are crucial and economic development plans, but also for social justice. Neither our statistics nor our statistics confirm. So, as far as economic development is concerned, we need first of all statistics for our needs. That's why I asked this question before what kind of statistics we have and got the answer that I was actually expecting, which is that statistics should be first of all, that its function in Croatia is primarily to bring it into line with European statistics, which is why our colleagues and colleagues in our social development are not the key data. Of course it's a good thing, I don't doubt it, but we need specific cross-cutting analyses that would show some concrete things. So input, output this cross-sectoral analysis would show us how dependent the domestic import business is, it gives us information on how much the share of the domestic component in a product is, what is the final demand for certain products, how much this demand generates employment, it shows us income, added value in the domestic economy and which sectors have the potential to increase added value, which have this multiplier effect. Although there's something going on with us, it's a really reduced form. Some of the analyses were done in 2010, but what we had in the 1970s and the input, output analysis for certain sectors, specifically Professor Mate Babic was doing an excellent analysis for shipbuilding, at which point we saw which domestic sectors could be developed to increase that domestic share, or share of the domestic component, and then we were third in the world in shipbuilding. So shipbuilding was invested, cross-cutting analyses were carried out showing which sectors to invest in, thus increasing and adding value. Of course, the shipbuilding today in the media is portrayed as a loser or a bottomless hole, but as we have come to this we do not know exactly because we do not have such cross-sectoral analyses means a panoramic overview of all flows of interdependence in the economy and the economic sectors, and therefore it would be clearer if we were to get such information why companies in the information sector that are now very prominent and on this basis development have a really very small effect multiplying the impact on domestic economy because the chain, not in every instance, but very often very short. So you have an educational institution, you have the one that produced the product, generally the service sector is now talking about Infobip, etc. about these companies, we are all looking forward to it because they are sold for big money, but what effect it has on domestic economy we do not have that information and that information would therefore bring us information on how important it is or how much it actually benefits us all as a society to invest in a service sector that has a largely low multiplier effect on employment, on added value, on the development of the economy. So often the mention of the Roman is true, I think we can all look forward to his economic success, but that success needs to be calculated. It needs to be statistically elaborated means how much this production has a multiplier effect, whether it's a developed serial production or whether it's only a battery production, which are the accompanying industries that will produce products for a Roman or not. Although this input, output analysis nominally exists, it does not work to the extent necessary or to make specialised calculations for individual sectors, it is generally adopted and standardised patterns but there are no specialized analyses. So the first question is, why doesn't the statistical office produce it or some other institution? And the second question, of course, is crucial, why is it that rulings have no interest in such analyses? Well, since we don't have a developmental economic policy at all, it's clear that we don't have any industrial policies, and then it's no wonder we don't even have specific statistics for these needs. This proves first and foremost that the authorities had no need for such an analysis, but neither for development. When we just do some comparative analysis, it means when we look at how many of these inputs, how many of these are output analysis, cross-sectoral analyses were done, the textbooks were written in the '60s, '87s. This latest analysis was made for the entire Croatian economy, '73. These sectoral analyses I mentioned for shipbuilding, the impact of world prices on shipbuilding, cross-sectoral analysis of domestics, influence means production of domestic components, etc., which I mentioned, but I say then our shipbuilding was 3 in the world. One argument today to shut down shipbuilding is the pedrasuds and media flossulas. So I don't base our decision which isn't the government's decision because it's not really justified, nor has it ever been elaborated in public space, but it's visible from the very effects that the shipbuilding policy is negative and that the shipbuilding minds actually come to a minimum, we have no arguments or we have analysis based on which such a decision has been made and we can't have because our analyses are actually just a reflection and actually an attempt to match statistical data meaning to European statistics, and that we don't actually run development policy through statistics. Second, why statistics are important, it is crucial for the question and for social justice at all. Especially in order to show the situation of material indicators, poverty and deprivation, as well as to calculate the minimum cost of living that we call a consumer basket according to neoliberal ideology. I must say that those who spend that basket are not consumers, but they are workers, people who live off their work, and what they need from that basket is not consumer products, but are necessary products to reproduce naked life. So it's really about minimum needs, not some consumer basket. It contains food, clothing, funds for personal care, health services, household supplies at the expense of culture, sports, education, child care, transport, housing, utility, etc. Therefore, the minimum cost of living is not to be calculated precisely with us. The trade unions calculated this famous minimum consumption or that consumer basket somewhere in 2011 and the amount they came up with was over 6,600 kuna. So to keep your life naked in order to simplify it, you need more than 6,600 kuna for a four-member family. We don't have those calculations today, unfortunately. In Slovenia, I will remind you of the minimum export of gross wages will be calculated from next year so that the means of pay, the minimum wage will be at least 20% higher than the minimum cost of living. Why? Because they calculate minimum costs. And that minimum wage is almost double that of ours now. We're coming into a situation today to raise minimum wage, and if there was that, that need to raise minimum wage and that it amounts to 60% of this middle salary, but those figures, they absolutely don't. Tomorrow, if prices rise, the minimum wage will be insufficient and this way is insufficient and even to reach that limit to be sufficient, if prices rise, it is not enough. So we have to have a minimum cost calculation of life, and with this minimum cost of life, we have to tie the minimum wage calculation, not to the percentages, not to the average wage or the median salary. We haven't calculated these minimum needs, we have some calculations that can be found along with these material indicators of deprivation and poverty that are really alarming in themselves, I've mentioned that data multiple times, and I'm going to say just one that almost a million people live at risk of poverty, but to get out of this, we have to have a minimum cost calculation of life. And tie the minimum wage to it. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7417	The next Club of Representatives is that of the IP, Smart and Glass, in the name of which the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7418	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State, from the State Department of Statistics, colleagues and colleagues. Before us Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2019. What's statistics? Statistics is a number. What's our interest? The interest is to be open, to be public, to be available to everyone and to have as much data as possible. The way we use these data in different activities depending on who uses them, the way he uses them. All our mouths are full of strategy, action plans, everything else, and the basis for all this together is statistics. The basis for all this together is the data that exists at the State Statistics Office that only depends on us how we use them and how we analyze them and how we continue to deal with them. Allow me two, two examples. I began to work on spatial planning there in the last century, and when you went to work on a spatial plan, then one of the more important entry into that spatial plan was the population, population, migration, transportation and everything else. You know when you're very young, then you think it's a number that's irrelevant, and then in life you learn that every number you have is extremely important. The result of these spatial plans made on the basis of numbers, based on projections because they were done there, the code year was always the famous year in 2000, and when Croatia got its country, instead of 100 and one 15 JLS we grew to 555 and 556, respectively, but not immediately. The units were doing their spatial plans and what we analyzed together, we analyzed construction areas. For what reason? Construction areas are areas where it can be built, but construction areas are also the ones that need municipal equipment, so when you talk about infrastructure here, it talks about how they are communally equipped and then it turns out that Croatia is out there at the end of the last century, and spatial plans were built on the code year 2000 so that 20 million inhabitants could live in Croatia without a problem. There are 4 million of us today, and then it's gotten into a very difficult and very difficult process that these construction areas are reduced, that they are audited, that those commissioners who sit here through the process that they've been going through and convincing their fellow citizens that these construction areas can't be exactly like that. Because from one building area is a commitment for certain municipalities and the city to communal equipment, so when you put it on paper, you get big amounts. So, if that were the case when, when they were done there in the '60s, in the '70s, last century, spatial plans in some realities had not been swept into some story, maybe a job that was done in 50. Later he was simpler. Let me take another example, very fresh. There is the mayor of one city, the capital of the Republic of Croatia, which experiences statistics in its own way. We have European elections and ahead of the European elections in the city of Zagreb, full of posters, that beautiful blue Zagreb color, which says that the town of Zagreb is the only city in Croatia that has a natural, which therefore natural population growth. We get statistics that show that it's not exactly like that. Then we warn the DIP and say that the money of the citizens of the City of Zagreb is used for, that the city is covered with posters that one party uses in its promotion regarding European elections, but that the information that is on the posters is not correct. Of course, the DIP reacted after the election. We also warn the mayor on a couple of occasions in the City Assembly that the city of Zagreb’s demographic policy is based on certain data that are statistical and response that we get, but that doesn’t surprise you from the mayor of the city of Zagreb that statistics certainly lead to something wrong, is that it’s certainly not so and that we will see there in April, this year that statistics are wrong, so that the results are something different. So that's how you use statistical data. But you can use it differently, you can use it, maybe I can say a third example when we started applying already in the first phase of the EU funds and then we applied, they were very good and it was the envelope of a wastewater purifier and then some of the cities that had 4 or 5000 inhabitants applied for a purifier that suffered 20,000 inhabitants and then, of course, those projects didn't pass. So the data should be used. Our interest is that when we provide data, especially data from individual companies, these data are as accurate as possible. Our interest is when data is, I always talk about what I was dealing with or what is somehow part of a niche in which, in which my professions, therefore, are quite important data related to building permits because according to this you from, data are given every 6 months as much as more or less the building permits are issued, data is given as to how many of them are related to the reconstruction of buildings, as far as it relates to the construction of new buildings, and in that data is read another data, the value of works. Now there's something to think about and what to think about. One value is the building value, the second is the pure roh bau, the long value is the value of the works of the completed facility, the 3 is the market value. So it's something that can cause some kind of confusion, but regardless of all of it together, you from the data on how many building permits are more or less issued, you can pull back the data related to the required number of employees in the building. So the number is, in the beginning is the number, but the number needs to be analysed, should be put in the context of everything else because from the verse of the figure you can read everything you need. Not only for the country's spatial development strategy, but for all other strategies and for the economic development strategy. You from the number of import and export relations see exactly what we have exported, i.e. what is the need for Croatia is recognised as someone who produces something and is good in terms of exports, but we also see what we have imported. I, in particular in this report, must admit, have been intrigued by data related to environmental protection or better said with climate change. These are the data that, among other things, as the State Secretary said in the introduction, the data is run by the DZS, but there are a series of data that run both the other bodies and that then deliver to the state administration that actually puts them in one place. They're tied to the water. There often, so by the water and by the waste. We often discuss water here, we can discuss the water use situation, but this data they have received, it is convenient to see, it is convenient to see in the water network, how much Croatia is really supplied with water, the water network, how much water is spent per capita, and we know exactly that at the monthly level about 4 cubics is one resident of Croatia's water consumption, but you can see how much losses are in the network, so from this data we see that the losses in the water network in Croatia are significantly greater than some other comparative countries. And that's something that says that in our infrastructure we don't care properly. What I am equally, related to waste, that means the way we take care of waste, the way we deal with waste, today, I see, it is convenient to always look at some portals in the morning, so you can see exactly the list of cities in Croatia, one portal has published how many, therefore, the 10 best and 10 worst, which classify waste, which deals with waste, but that's all the data that serves us for some other strategies, for some other analysis. In conclusion, statistics are really a number. What is the interest of all of us, to make it as accurate as possible, to be more realistic, to be open, to be available to everyone and to be transparent. And what we're going to read from that, depending on those who are working on individual strategies. But really, you shouldn't even look pessimistic and see everything bad, but it's not good to look at pink glasses, because then, to do something wrong, you don't see it right away. Some things can be seen in 10, 20 or 30 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7419	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7420	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honored Proposer, Honorable MPs and MPs. So before us is the Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2019, and in this report we have now had the opportunity to hear several exhibitions, but I would like to mention what is really the most important thing ahead of us, and the holder of this activity is the DZS and this is an activity that is strategically important, not only for the DZS but for us, all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and there is an annual census, i.e. the population of households and apartments, which will be translated into 2021, more precisely, probably in March, the following year. So it's a list that's done every 10 years and it's known how it's going to be implemented in two ways. So, self-recording the population through the Internet, through the e-Citizens' electronic system and the field census, using an interviewer that will have an electronic device. You would focus on this last one, so on the censusors that have direct contact on the ground, we heard that there is the possibility and the crowns in the next year are present and before the Statistical Office it will put a new problem and it is expected that the Institute will jointly prepare for that activity to have its answers. However, what I would particularly like to point out is the education of respondents who are predicted to be responsible for the education of the interrogators themselves, as well as the preparation of the study itself, to spend significant resources on education and surveyors, so that citizens will be able to carry out the list, and that people can respond and be prepared for themselves, to the census itself. So this census is important for a number of reasons, and it is particularly important for those rights that arise from the constitutional powers of national minorities, which is that, on the basis of these data and national minorities, they exercise their rights. I myself as a member of the Slovenian national minority, therefore one of the minorities who threatens to survive, is therefore a complete assimilation of the work and cultural diversity of the Republic of Croatia, which a series of these small minorities who also threaten survival is crucial in the census. Therefore, the difference between citizenship and nationality that respondents must ask or enter in the questionnaire is also important, and it is often that people do not know the right difference, and even respondents do not know the real difference between nationality and nationality or nationality. So, we didn't, we missed the past, in past studies well enough to educate them. Of course, it also takes care of the suggestive power of the interrogators themselves and, therefore, in a very subtle and very powerful way to focus on this problem in particular. So, the disappearance of national minorities is harmful to the Republic of Croatia and I am asking you again because I was talking about it at a session of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities to take special care of this issue and how people might, without fear of losing some existential right, be determined for the nationality or nationality they belong to or which they feel within themselves without fear of losing their wages or something that I have already mentioned to them about their life here in the Republic of Croatia. So the other problem that would have been updated is the problem of eviction, which is also not sufficiently visible in all the statistics that we have shown here. And here I particularly refer to different, different, different data, let's say, in SR Germany you see that different data is how many people from Croatia have entered, and how many have been recorded as gone. We know that from 2013 to 2018, a minority of 200,000 people moved out of the Republic of Croatia until only 88,000 came, so that's the problem with immigration. And from Croatia in as many as 463 cities or municipalities that record population decline due to emigration is only 96 of them in plus for immigration. It is a problem that statistics only detect, and politics cannot solve through its own, through its laws or other implementing regulations. Here the report would refer to what is actually.../incomprehensible/... the future, and that's the problem with the loss of drinking water. We often talk about it, and we know from the report that almost 2/3 of drinking water refers to water loss that has been affected and transported to end-users by pipes. That's over 200 million cc's of water. Some sources also cite 230 million losses of millions of cubes of water loss. That's the 2.5 billion kuna that's spilled into our country, that's enormous losses. So comparisons working in Europe are considered acceptable loss of 15 to 18% of water. Which means there's three times less loss there. What is stuck in the implementation and when a regulation on service areas will be adopted again depends on the government, and this could significantly save the losses that life means. So, the price and just remind me that the price of a liter of water in the shops is equal to a liter of fuel in the petrol stations. So it's a resource of today's time and we simply through the losses that we have and that are visible from the statistical report simply don't perceive as the problem that needs to be solved urgently in order to preserve what this country has given us. And the fourth thing I specifically wanted to mention is poverty is also insufficiently seen from reports and poverty that we can address today first of all with very fast pen movements. So if we could just increase our personal deduction, so that's already an upgrade of 300, 3,800 kuna to 5,000 thousand people would get 300 to 400 kuna higher wages, I mean nurses, firefighters and others, other employees who urgently need more money so that they can live more normally at this time. And as far as poverty is concerned, it's kind of equal to the maltene among the pensioners who are receiving today means an average pension of about 2,500 kuna, and about 650,000 pensioners, it's simply impossible to survive in any way the statistical report that is before us every year is not a warning to this government to protect these pensioners and to allow us to protect our elderly from poverty. Statistics must therefore not be a set of figures but a basis for concrete action. As political representatives of the people, we have been chosen to delegate and create legal frameworks for people to live better and to be protected. by the state. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7421	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7422	Dear Vice-President HS, respected representatives of the State Statistics Institute, colleagues and colleagues. Before us Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2019. Official statistics are important not only in national but also in international contexts, as it enables comparison of certain aspects of social and economic development with other countries. Croatia's entry into the EU integrates the statistical system of the Republic of Croatia into the European Statistical System, allowing us to compare the data of the Republic of Croatia with the data of the EU Member States. Well, that's right, so now we can clearly figure out how we are at the very bottom of all relevant scales by all indicators. Although the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia is 2019. The planned implementation of a total of 284 statistical activities, of which the vast majority and implemented, raises the question whether we have us in Croatia usable databases and do we use them in a quality way? By respecting the rules based on which the State Statistics Institute collects and processes data remains unclear why are our institutions not using such and such data? For example, when we talk about agriculture respecting the fact that the only thing in the EU we have the OPG law we don't really know the exact number of OPGs, we don't know exactly what they produce or how many owners of the same that are taxpayers of the payment of contributions, as well as tax taxes? The state statistical office does not collect that data. Maybe we'll find out about them by just listing the farm. What, though, if the people with the list of farms are giving us false or incorrect information? For these reasons, neither the Croatian agricultural chamber can hold regular elections in its ranks. When you ask farmers what they think about this problem, they will tell you that it is because a large number of employees in the Ministry of Agriculture have their registered OPG and that precisely because of them, there is a real situation in the field. The same is true of the agricultural land records owned by the Republic of Croatia. Although the Agricultural Land Act defines the obligation to keep records of farmland, we do not have those records. We don't even have a payment database or any non-payment of agricultural land leases. If you leave a bit among citizens, you can hear that even concessions do not settle regularly. Private companies have detected the number of unprocessed hectares in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So, not the State Statistics Institute, not the state institutions, but private companies. It's possible this isn't a matter of state, a statistical office. But when you have the knowledge that more than 7 hundred employees are working in that office who spend about hundreds of millions of kunas a year on their activities, then we have to ask ourselves whether we have the right to the above mentioned data, all in order to strengthen the transparency of the system and equalisation of citizens before the law. I'll stay at the farm. The report only processed data on rata production even though the report was for 2019. We have only available indicators for 2017 and 2018. In 2018, the production of rape oil in the Republic of Croatia was 155842 tonnes, representing a certain increase of 14.8% compared to the production year 2017. The production of corn was 2 million 147 thousand and 275 tonnes, which represents an increase of 37.7%. In 2018, 245,188 tonnes of soybeans were produced, which is 18% more than in 2017, and the wheat produced 738363 tonnes, which is an increase of 8.2% compared to 2017. According to this data, the ordinary mortal expects a link to the production of meat and milk in the Republic of Croatia because it is logically wartime production throughout the world should be in the function of livestock production, but not in Croatia. Accordingly, the following data in this report should be how many liters of milk we produced and how many kilograms of meat we produced. The reason why you will not find information about livestock production in the report is that the quantities of cereals produced in the Republic of Croatia are exported. They don't serve to feed cattle because cattle are gone. But we have no record of these indications in this report from the State Statistics Office. In the report, we read how the work on the development of statistics was continued in cooperation with other institutions, so to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. Honestly, I do not understand the work of the institutions mentioned if we connect things, so the production of cereals in Croatia is growing, it is necessary to use artificial fertilisers obtained by chemical means to produce cereals. The destruction of livestock has destroyed both the availability and the possibility of the use of natural fertilisers. These institutions within Agro-environmental issues, Agro-environmentals on this topic have nothing to say. Why is our profession silent? Does every report that comes to our table have to cover up the real situation in our country and even the statistical activity report? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7423	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marin Mandaric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7424	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Director of the State Statistics Office, along with the associate. Here is the preparation for this exhibition, reading the Report on the implementation of statistical activity in the Republic of Croatia for the past year, you could say that statistics is also a set, some numbers, if we're going to approach it so trivially, to a problem like the work of the State Statistics Institute. But if we read this report a little more carefully, we think a little bit more about it, actually, only then do we find the importance of the work of the DZS and everything they do throughout the year. The report said that 284 statistical activities were planned, that 3 had not been carried out, but we also heard from the board of directors of the DZS that these remaining three activities were carried out during this year to 31.3. something due to the deadlines that Eurostat extended, something for technical reasons. So all 284 plotted activities, they're done. This was also about the number of employees in the framework of the DZS. If we read the report more carefully, we could see that this number has been back 10 years, there since 2010, when the Institute was over 600, I think 618 employees, this year that number has been constantly decreasing, and this year they came to 502 employees. Maybe there's actually a reason why the DZS can't do sectoral analysis and importing and deliver and analyze other types of data, but there's 502 employees, especially if we go a little deeper, and we look at the age structure of those employees, and we can actually figure out that it's relatively old, if only, 30 percent, it seems to me, employees, that at some younger age. But you're not lonely in that problem. Other state institutions have problems with the number of employees, with unfulfilled systems, so we believe the years ahead of us, that you will be able to get to that problem, that you will succeed in further teaming up, staffing up with young professionals, motivated and eager knowledge and learning, fill in the ranks of the DZS. Of course, this was also about the census that awaits us for the year. We've seen the report for 2019, the preparations have already begun. This year the Law on the List of Populations, Apartments and Households, which awaits us this year, was passed. I would especially point out a few things, and this is actually the possibility that citizens will be able to fill out that polling questionnaire electronically from their home via the e-Citizen system. For each commendation, the only proposal, which is more necessary to promote the possibility of using e-Citizens, thus filling out the census questionnaires. Of course, I don't have to tell you what the benefits of this system are, but we can conclude that a small number of citizens in Croatia still use the system e-Citizens. I personally became convinced, so I can say a little bit and uneasy when we were three, four months old. the situation surrounding the issue of those e-passes during the crown crisis so when everything went through the e-Citizens system. Well, it was only then that you could see how many people don't actually use the system of e-Citizens. And it is even more surprising that these are young people, highly educated, whose technology is not unknown, using the Internet, using apps, and they simply never clearly felt the need to log into the e-Citizen system and start using these services. Nor is this just a word about the average population of the Republic of Croatia, of course the word can be found in civil servants and locals who should primarily promote the use of such systems, and the first ones themselves do not have and do not use it. Well, maybe we should also take advantage of the population list that comes next year to further promote the system of e-Citizens, to throw it in the first place, to get as many people as possible using that system in the future. Also, what I felt was the need to mention about the list that is going on next year, I will quote from your report, basic activities related to improving.../incomprehensible/... statistical system, aimed at strengthening the role of administrative data sources and their wider application for statistical purposes, which contributes to the effectiveness of the statistical system. Well, of course, the data that has one body, so you won't be collecting it again. It happens to us all the time that one state institution has data, another state institution needs that data, so either through the user, through the citizens, the entrepreneurs we're looking for go, I don't know, to the tax, to the cadastre, I don't know where, bring the paper. We should generally work on it both as a society and as a state to align each other and as much as possible with the state institutions so as not to unnecessarily bother our built and other users, business entities with unnecessary administration and shoe spending walking from institution to institution. I saw, there you will, you signed the agreement with the MUP, you will download the data from them. Also, progress is visible in the field of labour market statistics, where you are now taking over data according to the areas of those, there is no NKD, according to classifications and wages you analyze from those JOPPD forms, where it is much more visible and there are some kind of economic relations in the labour market. Of course, the importance of accurate and timely statistics as a basis for making real, timely, correct political decisions and measures is unquestionable. We don't doubt the accuracy of the data that you're delivering to us, some general impression is that if we were to put on a scale a state institution in which we have more or less confidence, I believe that at the top of that scale, a DZS would be, as far as data accuracy is concerned, the general impression is that if you say that there's some kind of fall, growth, plus, minus, some percentages or absolute figures, it's not too much of a question. It is of course a merit for you who are currently working and running the Statistics Office, but also for all those who have installed their work before you in the state, in the work of the DZS. How important it is to obtain accurate and accurate data, too, it is important to obtain both timely and timely data. Now, I believe there may be room for progress so that we can collect and analyze faster, present your data. Of course, to make an important and important political decision how important it is that it is correct is as important as timing. By picking up a little bit on the head this morning which would be an important political decision and measures, and if it were important timing I immediately remembered the government's measure there in March, April in response to the crown crisis, and aid to the economy and rescue aid, measures for saving jobs if those decisions had been made I don't know with 6 months of delays we would see a whole other picture of the economy today in Croatia would probably also be full of people looking for a job. Perhaps it is not an example that I could find with a higher degree of correlation between timely statistics and a timely decision, but I wanted to draw attention to the timely decision-making of the right and the right, political, political, political decisions. Of course, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this report for last year's report. The trust I mentioned in general you have it, just as we trusted in your data when we looked back for the last 2-3 years at numbers as we and GDP on the rise, how employment rates, unemployment falls, the state budget finally in surplus, then we saw that it was possible after many years. We've seen that it's not just a theory, but in practice it's possible. This year will be interesting, of course, especially when we'll all look at your data when these numbers aren't exactly how they've been in the last few years, but there's still no reason not to believe you, but we expect, of course, as soon as possible, but next year these figures will be positive, with a positive sign. Here, I would like to thank you for your attention and the HDZ Representatives' Club supports the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7425	Thank you very much. We are going to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7426	Thank you very much. Here's our citizens this time we listen to know that statistical indicators exist, statistics exist, but I as a man who wants to hear solutions after statistical indicators I don't see them. A year ago in my last term, I spoke here on several occasions about the statistics of our evicted people, i.e. on GDP statistics against GDP from our evicted people, so 6% of GDP is from people who went abroad and sent over the signs to their families in Croatia this money, 6% of GDP is the most in the EU, Europe and the world. When Ireland was in the worst demographic downturn, Croatia was in a worse relationship, meaning 6% of GDP, and when I said it was 6% of GDP, it was the Croatian non-national bank for a time, everything except the national bank, it's 20 billion kuna. At the same time as these statistical results can create fog as the government throws fog and the prime minister boasted here that economic growth before the crown of the crisis is the greatest as it is successful. In fact, you know of what economic growth, from policies that are catastrophic, which have evicted our most qualitative people from their agricultural lands, from shipyards, from factories, moved to third countries, and these people have been sending money to their families, unfortunately what families are going to do now, is a policy similar to that when during Tito Yugoslavia when he organized trains to go to Germany to send this money to their families mainly from my neighborhood, the Imot area, Herzegovina, so that as much as possible, so now our people are organized to work in other countries, to send 6% of GDP to Croatia, 6%, and at the same time the prime minister boasted with economic growth, and then passed a law on foreigners to abolish work quotas for foreigners. So it's targeted politics, emigrated Croatians, young and most qualitative, most potential, any doctors, any locksmiths or intellectuals moved them outside to send money to Croatia, empty the state and now there are no more quotas for foreigners because there is no labour market. Now, that's the scam we're talking about economic growth. Also when the Minister of Agriculture says I have fulfilled all obligations towards farmers, we have paid off never again support in agriculture, incentives, when you look at statistics then we have never again imported food products, EUR 3 billion, never less milk production, never less production in the economy either, I think in all segments we have a problem, and the government creates an impression that it is educated under Brussels lights, creating the impression that everything is nice under these lights and then when I listen to it, the prime minister or you who were by the clubs of Mr Kovacevic and others when I listen to you then I don't think that's the same thing when I come down. I come down to the country, we look at Cetina, the village has no water, I come to Rudo to watch Cetina's source of phenomenal ore great doesn't have this water supply I see the pond that's the best quality fish in Europe, trout, ponds don't work, and we import everything, we never import again. And if there's any logic there then, not by diminishing the work of the statisticians, I'm talking here, meaning that fog is being created and that's why demographic fall. And that's why this crown is the crisis that you're often getting off on right now, now it's all the root crisis. That's why this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies, because when I've spoken here and proposed legislation, and now I've given the law on agricultural land, to ban the sale of foreign agricultural land if Hungarians can, and so can we, that's a strategic resource, to declare an exclusive economic belt, to protect our fisherman, our fish fund, our flora, our fauna, that's our obligation. We Italians create additional value on this hunting fish, defending the submarine or on agricultural land, we see that everyone buys, Serbian entrepreneurs, each buys it, without talking about water sources and all our other resources. So statistics are statistics, figures, and what the government can do is trick a cowardly egg that it is economic growth, and Croatia 2/3.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7427	Thank you very much. We have one replica of your exposure, please remain here, dear representative of the Skore. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7428	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bulj, you were talking here about emigrants I didn't want to answer on this subject because they say that statistics are mostly the exact sum of incorrect data, when I was looking for a way to get to the number of our emigrants almost impossible, so I found out from some German sources. As an entrepreneur, we can say that many times we get requests to meet certain forms that are really frustrating and what is very important in statistics is how some data are collected and how they are processed. What awaits the Croatian state next year is the census. It is interesting that for the first time there may be a situation in Croatia that, for example, one nation will list members of one nation, and another nation should list members of another people. This is one of the tragedies of Croatian statistics and data processing that we collect.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7429	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7430	Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia is all normal what is not normal, there is a democracy of what is democracy, and here I fully agree with you. It was here when the voter list was discussed, i.e. For those who will collect voters I remember the SDSS is raising so much panic here as most of them did not want to vote at all it was a problem that they had to be satisfied that the people of the national minorities were listing these people of the national minority. Now imagine what discrimination against both the majority people and minority, if it is democracy, if it is democracy that Milorad Pupovac determines who will list people in the Republic of Croatia or Furio Radin it is democracy moving democracy that this is government and pleasure, and also now Milorad Pupovac, Furia Radina and a few of them from the minority, because it is amazing so much mistrust for those who manage because they are not a national minority here, here are the majority, we are a minority, we are opposition, so this is one discrimination of unimaginable proportions although it is necessary to respect national minorities, but this is discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7431	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7432	Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, here I am fortunate, unfortunate to have a long memory of parliamentary debates, and also somewhere a continuity or a small discontinuity was this debate about the report we're discussing today that is actually coming, here I remember 15 years ago somewhere, very similar, very similar structures, very similar methodologies, very similar content. I will not say that nothing has changed in the 15th, or 20 years I have followed these reports, there have been of course significant adjustments that have been highlighted in this report, adaptation to European, European standards and statistics, but I will allow myself to replicate one of my discussions of just about 12, 13 years when it comes to this report and actually use it as a sort of.../incomprehensible/... to introduce something of which there is a great need, which there is technical possibilities, but there is clearly a lack of political will. It is that Croatia, as most countries have, I think only 2-3 in Europe, would not finally have to get a population register. I would like to warn you of this aspect of our statistical monitoring because it is truly tragic that this was said by my colleague Škoro for a moment by the tragedy of Croatian statistics that in 2020 we are actually guessing and assessing the most valuable resource this country has. We really don't know how many of us live in Croatia at all, we don't know what the status of these people living in Croatia, how many citizens, how many foreigners, how many of them are resident, we, through the German, Irish, French or British statistics, find out how many citizens of Croatia have moved out and we don't know if they are people who live in Croatia or BiH with Croatian citizenship. So we don't know about this country, how many of us there are, we know that we have 3,800,000 voters, and we actually have more than that. So these are really, they're really extremely worrying data. We can hardly know when we bring in any regional policy, when social, demographic policy, educational policy, how you will guide it if you have an estimated population, and if you have to expect 2021, as you have only since 1921, to get a census to find out the essentials of the single most important and most serious resource of every country, are its people. So, population register, there are today possibilities, there are techniques, there are technologies, there's known how it's done, and we can get all that data abdated to say it every day. That means the moment when, say, here's a colleague of Skoro's doctorate that at the same time in statistics, it's recorded as one doctor of science more in that and that area. That we have accurate social data. We don't know how many of our children, we're actually guessing or we have very superficial data as far as we're concerned with, say, kindergartens. Slovenians know that 97%, we assume between 57 – 62 etc. We don't know how many children are guarded by aunts, how many aunts, grandmas, or how much they pay to keep it. Let's just say, how will you plan in this area, how in the Court of the Union to say something from my constituency, will you plan any development if we don't have the exact information about it. What is the age structure of these people? How many people there are just recorded living, and actually living in Belgrade, Italy or I don't know where else, and here they're just reported? How old are those over 65? If someone wants to invest 100 million things in the Court of the Union with what potential workforce can they count on? So, basic development plans in any area of quality data that we unfortunately don't have, and we could have them because there's no reason for them not to exist, is there such opportunities. The issue of daily migration, the question of students, the question of their motivation to return, to come and return to certain parts is all that we should have, and at this point we do not have because our statistics do not have data. We have estimates based on some data outside in different systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7433	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected member of the Shore.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Vidic. It's obvious, and I agree with your resignation in the tone that was when you talked about all this, so it's clearly uninterested and sort of doing business when it comes to a very valuable matter of these statistics. We did not talk here about the methodology, how they were processed, but what is important to say when you talk about how many of us there are, it is important to ask perhaps how many people have Croatian passports, how many people have Croatian citizenship. We cannot lift the visa regime with the United States precisely because the percentage of visas denied is greater than permitted, I dare say that perhaps some who have obtained passports on the black market because the good part of Croatian passports, at least I remember it a long time ago, disappeared from diplomatic and consular representations and asked God where they ended. So this is definitely an important thing, but unfortunately not enough attention is paid to her as well as to many other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7435	Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7436	Well, I couldn't agree more. That aspect I did not specifically mention, but in any case as he said, the fundamental function of the nation of the state is to regulate in fact and to have a precise insight into who its inhabitants are, where these people are located, where they live at all times. We have more health insurance, 4 million and 100 thousand, 138 thousand than we have in Croatia. We really don't know where these people are, there's no record. There's some kind of obligation to log out when you're going somewhere, but people don't log out. It's to regulate, it's not an impossible mission. So this question, too, is being misused, and in what way, exactly the inaccuracy of these statistical monitorings is a perfectly legitimate question, absolutely certain that this is happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7437	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7438	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Vidovic. It's unimaginable, and I think it's very difficult to expect someone to disagree with today's exposure, but it's too short a time for what we get to be more elaborate. And I would just say that since I completely agree with you that our statistics are working, nor does everything that in the country should work to get quality data, and since we don't have that data, but we have to rely on countries where our people are moving to Ireland, Germany and neighbouring countries, I would say just like this, in Croatia it's expected that 400 thousand inhabitants will move out, it's like someone's saying in the next eight years that no child will be born in Croatia, that's the relationship of emigrated and native Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7439	Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7440	I agree, of course, I'm deepening problems, I agree it's a short time. I read the data somewhere, I don't know if it's true, that 36 thousand newborns in Croatia in the last year, 36, that somewhere around 6 thousand Croats, a Croatian citizen, was born abroad. This information, if dug deeper, speaks about the structure of eviction. We get women from a fertilized age, they're not even old men. The question is, how many kids have moved out? We know that we are losing a working-age population, a natural route that has been around 207 thousand in my calculations since 2013 because of reduced inflows from lower age groups and the departure of accelerated baby boom generations, by moving somewhere around 300 thousand. That's half a million in the work contingent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7441	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Marin Mandaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7442	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A few things. In the presentation on behalf of the club, I did not purposely mention a list of farms in order to have an opportunity through an individual debate to look back at the work currently done by the DZS, the list of agriculture makes the last mass made in 2003, of course, useful. It will benefit everyone, primarily those who are designing a agricultural and economic policy of the Republic of Croatia. Why didn't he have all the data already appended to give me this information click, give me that information, there's probably a lot of reasons, probably trouble being dragged for years. But let's look in advance at what we can and how we can improve the system. I also agree with Mr Vidovic's presentation that it would be great that through several clicks we could come up with this very necessary data. However, as I have already said, a possible solution or part of the solution to this problem lies in a weak teamwork or unfulfilled, largely unfulfilled systematization of the State Statistics Institute. I believe that in the years ahead, they will deal with these very things. It's not normal and it's not good that we don't have that kind of data in real time. In the years ahead of us, I hope we have them, as well as the list of farms, here finally this year we'll have a real condition, but it'll be a real situation again with some back date, it'll be with dates, now I don't know, from September, October, when the censusors go to the O.P.G. And with me, they've been with my family and they've listed everything the family O.P.G. does, but it's always going to be some old data. And sometimes it may be predicate to expect that in real time we have all the data. It's some kind of perfect imagined system that probably doesn't have anywhere in the world, it's probably never gonna be with us either, but it's got to be pursued and it needs to be tried as close as possible, as close as possible. It's the only thing that seems to me when it comes to the list, about the list of farms, that I might be a little bit sorry that there's a missing opportunity which, let's just say, is a little taste and a census that's expected for us a year, which is perhaps the most important job in your area, which may not have been tried, tested this system via the e-citizen system. But, well, we know, and here, many agricultural producers have been filling in polling questionnaires in advance, so it doesn't have to go in all of them that way, in fact, has accelerated, hastens the work. Once again, I can't say that I support this report and the work of the Department of Statistics with all these comments on improvements, that in some discussions over the coming years we will find that the steps are more significant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7443	Thank you very much. We have a debate between a respected representative and the vice president of this House of Skora, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've been listening very carefully to your statements on behalf of the club, and here we are. So 502 people. It's always a question of when something is done, what's the end result and what we do with that data that we collect. You said, unfortunately, we're not able to get results on one click. It's a problem of misinformation of the Ministry of Connection system, let me know about it, and that's the tragedy, because mostly when the information components and equipment were supplied, it was mostly suitable for similar ones, and it wasn't a matter of being able to process these valuable data on one click, especially because we have passports and ID cards that are now biometric, so we can track a lot when people are concerned. But what I definitely have to say is you'll support this report and it's nice to support it, but there's not enough integration And there's not enough of this analysis of what we're collecting. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Unfortunately, these hardworking people work a couple of times. For nothing. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7445	The answer of the respected envoy Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7446	Here's your thanks, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Škoro, I can agree that there are still room for progress enormously both in informing the state and public administration and in importing this story about the purchase of individual, individual equipment informational, informational about possible guessings, I don't know what to say, so maybe you have some information, so here's what it's up to you to bring it out where it needs to be brought out. Of course, it is necessary to equip with information, inform the entire country. When did we start doing that? Well, a few years ago. Is it possible to get rid of it so quickly overnight is not expected, but it should persist and not stop insisting on as much as possible, wherever information can be introduced, automation, less walking, less paper, only this way we will improve not only the work of the Statistics Institute but also the general state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7447	The Republic also has a respected representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7448	Well, I can agree with my colleague that it's hard to have abdominal data for every chicken, duck or goose, but for people it's possible. So what other countries have shown, if you have a population register, people have their OIBs, a child when born gets an OIB. You get a scientific diagnosis, it's established, it's already in electronic form, it can be easily withdrawn without any problems. When I came out of Croatia, it is recorded, when I enter Croatia, when I have acquired some new calling, some new knowledge, etc., these data are done on the basis of statistical units, it can be done daily. The proposal is yes, there was a debate on whether the Ministry of Administration, who will run such a population register, is talking about it. I think the best National Statistics Service, these data must be strictly protected, have to be strictly used, intended and, but they may have... Day-to-day abdominals. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7449	Dear Representative Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7450	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Vidovic, of course I agree, some data, many of them may have an Abdajtana in real time. I said that part of them isn't real and we'll never have them, but we should insist that the more data we can get from one to two three to two three clicks to two three clicks at any time. For that, it is not only the responsible state, the Institute of Statistics, the competent ministries, agencies and funds, of course you should tie up JLS, our schools, our kindergartens, high schools, health institutions, that's a really wide story and question, you've asked well, who should lead to whether the Ministry of Statistics, whether the Institute of Statistics, but in the years ahead, it's a big job, but everyone who deals with any public affairs I believe would greatly facilitate us if we could get as much of that data in a very short time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7451	Thank you very much. The individual debate was also attended by a respected representative, Zeljko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7452	Thank you very much, esteemed President, Vice President of the Assembly, dear colleagues. I'd just like to try to put things in place. Namely, here we have heard a variety of thesis that data is used in the wrong way that they are not enough, that they are not collected in the right way etc., etc., but we need to know that the DZS is working in accordance with the provisions of the Official Statistics Act on the basis of the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia and on the basis of the annual implementation plan of statistical activities. And these documents set out all institutions that together with this institution collect data and form a system of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia. If I was wrong, please correct me. So it's that if we want the DZS to collect some more data, we need to change those documents and put it through those DZS documents, but we can't charge them that they didn't collect something because they didn't want it because it's not true. So the data exists and they're more difficult not to use these data for analysis, it's not their job again. Business analysis should be carried out by institutions that are in charge of a given area. For example, here is Mr. Vidovic mentioned the population, and we already have that population data in the databases of the MUP. When a child is born, he gets his OIB is written in the M.O.P. database. What's worst written into another base, it's Mother of Birth, right? At the moment, unfortunately, that's the way it is with us right now, the moment someone dies, you have to go to the N institutions to get through all the units that this person died. You have to go to the MUP, you have to go to the Mother's Office and report that he died, you have to go to the banks to check out all accounts you have thousands of things, but it's not the job of the Statistics Office, it's a job that can be carried out through information services. So the systems connect, and when you get to one place, it's written down and service, and it's all set up by the bases together, and then we're going to have the right bases. But again, it's not the statistical department's problem. The Bureau of Statistics collects data and actually I would try to define it in a way that your job is to collect data, process data and make it available to interested users. After that, interested users will process the data through a variety of analyses. Whether they will put them in context of a big date, smart date, fast date, whether they will put them in context of some given checkhouse and in a smart way improve, it is already a matter of these institutions. The problem with us is that in fact, the biggest user of this data should be the state and state bodies, ministries, various agencies and all those who should use this data for any predictions. In many cases, however, this does not happen and that is the problem. The state should take this data based on these data to do analysis, based on these data through some given knowledgehouse or some large given system to do a complete analysis of these data and based on these data to make forecasts of future events, and then we would have a different picture which already here several times mention our colleagues in connection with the decline of industrial production, in connection with the decline of agricultural production, in connection with other events which are unfortunately negatively falling GDP and so on. But unfortunately, we have to find out fortunately that it's not their job and they're not responsible for it. They collected the data and made it available. If afterwards someone at the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Agriculture will take and put them in the right context and on the basis of data and historical developments make smart decisions and give new laws for adoption, now that is already the problem of the ministry. That's why I think you did a good job, and if the state uses that data in a smart way, it's already the second pair of shoes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7453	Thank you very much. We have one replica of MP Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7454	Here's my colleague Pavić, we've had a little discussion past this pay phone, and what you just said is only partially standing, and the DZS really doesn't collect data or some other institution that the government would command us to be relevant. That's the problem. So, of course, it's not a grudge that goes to the DZS, but it's a problem that goes to the government, which doesn't give the DZS instructions that we would need in order to first of all, and that's really important at this point, to develop both cross-cutting analyses and see what industries are in which we need to invest that other industry, which produces added value, and in public space are mainly only being handled by the floscules and myths, and that's exactly what statistics would solve everything. That we have information on how many sectors of service products... multipliers.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7455	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7456	This is what I said in the introduction of my presentation, there are three key documents on which DZS works and then we should change those documents or government or some other bodies should make the request for collection and other data. In addition, we must note that we have forgotten all or some have not even mentioned it in our exhibitions, that we have a lot of data in other databases that are not in the database of statistics. For example, if someone paid a fee for the use of agricultural land, it exists at the Agriculture Agency. So all we need to do is collect that data through a variety of services, but the question is, is anyone interested, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7457	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Now we're going to take a break by 12:00, and at 12:00 we're going to vote on the points we've done so far. Thank you very much. It's 11:36 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7458	Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2019. The applicant is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2019 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 117 MPs and MPs, 98 for, 12 abstentions and 7 against, and a conclusion has been adopted that it has been proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The report on the state of the water services sector and the work of the Water Services Council for 2018 shall be submitted to the Water Services Council. We'll vote on this item on the agenda. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the state of the water services sector and the work of the Water Services Council for 2018 is accepted. Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 171 MPs, 76 for, 30 abstentions and 11 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7462	I thank the president of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the selection of a member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament; a member of the Board, Ankica Zmajic, is hereby authorised, and Mato Čičak is elected as a member of the Committee. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the HS; Ankica Zmajić is elected to be a member of the Committee for the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the HS, and Drazen Barisic ceases to act as a member of the Committee for the Peace of Representatives. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the EU Regional Development Committee of HS Funds; Mato Čičak is elected as a member, and the Committee member's duty has ceased to act as Drazen Barisic. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the deputy member and the appointment of a member of the HS delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of the EU; the deputy member of the delegation of Dr. Marija Selak-Raspudić, and Dr. Nino Rasdic. These decisions will be published in the National Journal and will take effect on the day of their adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-25-0.u7463	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers, I'll close the debate and put the motion to the vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 116 MPs, 114 for and 2 abstentions have voted and decisions have been taken as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs.
