ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197691	Let's move on to the agenda. We have already agreed to conduct a joint discussion on the set of 6 laws proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club and one joint SDP representative's club and representative Goran Aleksic's team, and on three proposals for a conclusion submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, these are: - Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the Law on Contribution, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal for the Act on the Law on Obligors, First and Second Amendments, - Final Proposal for the Law on the Complementary of the Law on the Morals, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal of the Law on Obligations, the Emergency Act on the Taxes, the Second Amendments of the Act, the Second Amendments, the Second Amendment of the Act, the Act on the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Protection of the Act, the Law on the Act, the Second Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Rec, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Protection of the Law on the First, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the First, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law on the Law of the First, the First, the Law on the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the First, the Law on the Law on the Law, the Law of the Law, the Law, the Law, the Law of the First Act, the Law, on the Law on the Law of the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law, the Law, the First Act, the Law, the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on the Working of the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice. The government didn't deliver an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197692	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning, we warned a month and a half ago about the effects of the crisis caused by the coronary virus. Three weeks ago, we went out with our first package with more than 15 measures to help citizens and preserve jobs. Our measures were not then adopted by the government. Since the first government measures that followed only by our measures were too focused on prolongation, on delays, and they were not enough help for entrepreneurs, nor their employees, and time was leaking, the SDP sent our second package of more than 10 laws to save the economy and jobs, which we are unfortunately considering today. The second package comes today after voting on the government's package, shows in fact only demeaning and opposition, but also citizens, especially those citizens who have lost their jobs in the last two weeks due to late government reactions, over 20,000 of them as well as those citizens who at this point fear losing their jobs. Further demeaning comes precisely because the government was not even ready to manifest itself on this proposal. This only shows the relationship that currently exists in Croatia with all those who are trying to constructively help their proposals the poorest, most endangered, unemployed and other most vulnerable groups of citizens who are going through a severe crisis in Croatia thanks to the coronary virus. It is precisely because of a late reaction from the Government that the SDP proposed in the second package a write-off, not just a postponement of taxes and contributions, and we have suggested that we exempt the payment of profit tax for all entrepreneurs because this is not a time in which they can simply or should credit the state. Secondly, we have proposed the release from the payment of the flat-rate tax for craftsmen and small tenants due to special circumstances because they are closed due to the decision of the headquarters and we have proposed to write down 100% of the contributions for salaries to employees during the duration of the crisis simply so that they can help these people because they are closed by the decision of the headquarters due to the crown of the virus. After a very high public pressure, after we had pushed in the SDP for the past three weeks, offered to the Croatian public, and also to the Croatian government to help solve these problems in trying to preserve jobs, after pushing them to move faster, to simply do more in the direction of protection and employers, but also jobs, only one step was taken to help the economy. Therefore, the proposals for a write-down of taxes and contributions were accepted. But now you need at this specific moment of help right now to the citizens, to do what is not done. Help those most vulnerable, workers, but also unemployed, parents who stay with children at home, but also those workers who stay at home alone in self-insulation, as well as those on the first line of defense against the epidemic. Therefore, the SDP continues to insist on its second package of laws to help preserve jobs and therefore we still feel that our proposals are needed at this point. It is necessary to increase the basis for compensation for self-insulation workers to the average salary level because this fee of 2100 kuna is simply too small for a man's life. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide paid leave to at least one parent who spends time at home with his child under 12 years of age, especially since in this situation the parent is particularly affected at work. It is also necessary to increase the amount of non-taxable payments to help employers in particularly sensitive activities in the root of the crisis to reward their workers, especially those now on the first line of defence against the epidemic and helping Croatian citizens not to lack anything, so that they can reward traders, so that they can reward pharmacists, drivers, workers and logistics workers, as well as security guards, those whose simple work in these difficult times has not stopped but is even more pronounced. 4. it would be responsible to enable workers who are at risk of a job due to the crisis to pay 75% of the salary, up to a maximum of 5,100 kuna, it is a small cost to the state, and it is certainly a guarantee of a much better life for those people who cannot work in these conditions. And they can't work primarily on sectors for which Croatia's GDP depends most, it's tourism and hospitality. Tourism reminds me that it accounts for over 20% of our GDP, when tourism and hospitality are at stake in the government in this segment has done absolutely nothing, practically nothing but petty cosmetic and technical changes. We recall that the SDP has proposed to abolish the obligation to pay the flat-rate tax for small tenants, we have also proposed to abolish the obligation to pay advances for artisan craftsmen and to abolish certain parafiscal duties including the flat-rate amount of tourist tax and membership fee to the tourist community during the crisis. And I remind you that we will continue to insist that VAT in tourism and catering goes to 5% especially at this time of crisis, as we today insist that VAT on food delivery goes to 0% because we believe that in these difficult times, especially in the circumstances of the crisis when people order delivery needs to act on one hand and to reduce prices, but also to reduce taxes to those who have suffered the most damages due to the crisis, and these are the caterers. At a time of crisis, we must be solid, especially us politicians who represent citizens, especially those who are most affected by this crisis and who have lost their jobs or gone to a minimum. We therefore propose that for the next three months, parliamentary representatives and other state officials, other than those on the first line of defence against the virus, work for a minimumer to solidarity with a number of citizens who will be affected by this crisis, and unfortunately more and more in Croatia. 70,000 social assistance users, 240,000 blocked, more than 400,000 citizens living below the poverty threshold of 1,940 kuna, mostly part of the pensioners. In just two weeks of the crisis primarily due to a late government reaction, over 20,000 workers are jobless, another 400,000 fear for losing their jobs. For 5,500 permanent seasons and over that number as well as for more than 100,000 people registered on the stock market, and now they are not receiving any compensation for the simple prospect of employment is almost completely destroyed due to the crisis and they need help. So, it's over a million of the most vulnerable who can't pay the directors soon, can't pay the rent for the apartment, can't pay the loans. It is already clear that this crisis will take, in particular, a recovery from the crisis, so that we insist in the SDP that it is necessary to secure the moratorium on loans for a year, not just three months, and in a way that the interest is calculated in order to ensure on one hand the safety of entrepreneurs to continue their business, but in order to make them the most important thing, to ensure that citizens continue their normal lives without fear and uncertainty. It is necessary at this point to suspend and tighten interest, we have also suggested and is in this set of laws to help the economy and preserve jobs. So I want to say, in the SDP, we will continue to insist on the moratorium, on paying off loans for a year, but we will also insist on our third package of measures to help the citizens we presented the other day, which includes. First, a fee of 4,000 kuna per month in the next three months for unemployed people who were fired because of the root crisis, thanks to a late reaction from the government, a protection supplement of 750 kuna per month for all users of social assistance, etc. The minimum fee guaranteed is 70,000, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for all those who have income below the poverty threshold, so it's between 350 and 400,000 people below the threshold of 1,940 kuna per person for the most part of the pensioners, so these are pensioners with small pensions. We will insist on a fee of half the minimum wage, i.e. $1,625 per month for the unemployed currently on the stock market, who do not receive any remuneration and whose chance of employment has been completely destroyed due to the crisis, we will insist on continuing seasons at a minimum wage of 3,250 kuna per month of them 5,500, simply people have to live on something. Also, we propose to abolish the RTTV subscription precisely for these most affected layers of citizens, as well as a subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna renting the apartment for these mentioned categories, of course for people who are hired. What I would particularly like to put an emphasis on, I would like to stress that our legal proposals to be referred to in the procedure will require a suspension of the performance and an increase in the amount of pay free of charge, as well as the issue of bank cards blocked with a certain spending limit and the abolition of transactions i.e. compensation for transactions in online payments simply so that under the conditions of the crisis there will be no physical contact. We believe that these measures are very concrete, that they are implemented and that they should act quickly to help the most vulnerable groups of citizens, unemployed, pensioners, permanent seasons, social assistance users. I call on the government to consider them and to respect them as she has already complied with some of our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197693	Thank you. Continuing, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197694	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would only briefly comment on the moratorium law on the loans of debtors why it matters. In his statement, the CNB made public, i.e. according to the recommendations of the European Central Bank or the European Banking Supervisory Mechanism in Frankfurt, it said for a year that you have a framework for all business entities and citizens not to go to... claims. In other words, what does that mean? The CNB, or regulator, has already given a year to all business banks how to treat claims in their books, which means that banks already have the opportunity to do so. What does it matter? If this crisis, we all know, and we're aware that it can't end in three months, if the banks start to collect claims after three months, but now we have a liquidity problem, they'll simply suck all the money out of the system. If businesses and citizens come to them after three months, all these amounts, simply when the economy needs to be returned if they are bank priorities they will simply suck all the money out of the system if they have insurance instruments, they can charge much better from the state, they can be charged sooner than the state. And that's why it's important to calm down if we're saving the economic system now, now we're saving the economy of the Republic of Croatia. After three months, banks cannot be a priority over the state and cannot be a priority over other suppliers. And that's why it's important, and all the legal mechanisms have to be very good at controlling the whole process now. And here's why our intensity was to go with this moratorium for a year, only to those who are in liquid problems, only to those citizens who are at a minimum and only to those who are at risk, that they are simply given the opportunity to cope in that particular period of time. But what I'm warning you all the time is that it's simply our biggest fear of liquidity, liquidity or the insolvency of the system, that the system doesn't crack in the 6th month, is that we won't be able to get foreign exchanges about tourism and that simply when the economy starts to turn to make priority to suppliers and to pay bills, and only later will the banks that have the biggest capital and later come to the state that when the economy starts and collects their claims. Here's what I'd like to ask my colleague, Alexic, if that's what we agreed on for the last words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197695	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197696	I thank the SDP first of all for inviting me to propose with them the Moratorium on Loans Act, as this is my area of action since the beginning of the Croatian Parliament of the Bank, credit institutions, debts. I also note that it is very good that certain measures of force are also proposed in this third package, it will be proposed that we already proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia deblocking accounts, bans on enforcement, cards to everyone for free, free Internet banking, all this is important in these moments to enable citizens. The SNAGA party has proposed 16 measures in total, but I would now say something more about these moratories because it is the subject of exposure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has announced as one of the measures of the moratorium on the payment of the loan claim, as announced by the government of the Republic of Croatia, however, the government has not proposed a binding measure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has obviously discussed this with banks because banks have offered moratories to citizens, but these moratories include the calculation of interest, and these interest rates reach the day the moratorium ceases to operate and then they are deployed to wars or whatever bank it intends to negotiate with its debtors. It's not a moratorium. Such a moratorium of banks approve consumers, businesses, anyone and in a normal situation, therefore it is not a moratorium that must be made possible in the current crisis situation. In the current crisis situation, a moratorium must be allowed to collect claims from loans without interest and without any other charges being charged. If the moratorium lasts a year, and it should take a year, because the crisis will not stop the day the virus stops working, but the crisis will continue, because we will all be in the most citizens' problems, businesses less because they will start working, which is why the measure needs to be extended for a year. And it is easy to reduce the measure in the meantime if there is a better situation between citizens and businesses. Croatian banks can handle this measure without a problem. Croatian banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is excess liquidity. What does that mean? This means that they have 34 billion kunas of their own money that they can do whatever they want to do because they are not obliged to account for that money to anyone. And these 10 billion I said now seem to have fired the CNB in the last tranche another number of billions, so their liquidity is even greater than, that excess liquidity is even more than 34 billion kuna. Therefore, the banks must wait for the payment, and in addition the banks are obliged to the Croatian citizens who have robbed for the course of the franc, for the payment of interest that was illegal for a total of 20 billion kuna, hence those banks that are due to all of us, and perhaps for those of you who are here with me now, perhaps some of you banks owe us, and the banks they owe us should not now be charged in the annuity crisis. What's still missing, and what we haven't covered by the law is the licking, so the licking should be covered by the moratorium, it's primarily important for those companies that deal with transport, so they've got to get to licking buses, some other means of transport or the means of working in agriculture, so it's not working for them now, they need to be given a lysing moratorium because they don't fit at this time. So there are a series of measures still missing, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider this bill that we have put into the SDP procedure and I as Parliament's representative of the SNAGA party. I hope you will also consider this new package of measures mentioned by my colleague Bernardic, about cards, about unblocking citizens, about breaking up accounts, about free Internet banking. I don't think there's gonna be a problem with that, the government hasn't done it yet, but I don't think the government will have a problem with that, and that if the government doesn't even accept this proposal, they're going to prepare their proposal the way the government thinks it's best and they're going to put it in the process within about 7 to 10 days. Here's thank you for listening very carefully to what I've put forward and I hope you'll accept all of it in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197697	Thank you to Reverend Goran Aleksic. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinovic has a request for the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197698	... in accordance with Article. 248. The Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work seek a five-minute break in front of the club Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to warn the citizens and here present representatives of the complexity, the additional complexity of this economic situation in Croatia for which this second round of measures will not be sufficient today. In that sense, and thus I want to change Croatia constructively to this proposal for a package of measures that is now being discussed, I would like to draw particular attention to the second pension pillar. I'm looking for and I suggest, respected citizens, that they all be deposited in another pension column frozen during the crisis. Why? Because every month, on average, about 500 million kuna is paid into the second pension column, which is about 6 billion kuna a year. Now imagine how much it would mean, respected citizens, 500 million kunas every month during the crisis that you can get that money that's missing from the state, that you can pay minimum workers who have lost their jobs, social cases, those who are seasons that no one sees or asks what they're doing somewhere in between. Therefore, I think it is very important and we take advantage of this situation, we are ready, we have excellent economic experts in the party to change Croatia, we use this crisis to start reforming the second pension pillar, to transform it, to give people freedom to transfer their money or to the first pension column where they will guarantee the state or to the third liberal so that they can be rich or lost, but the time is so. If we do this, we will drastically reduce public debt, repair public finances and contribute to saving the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197699	Thank you. I'll have a break by 14.50. THE PURPOSE
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197700	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.50 HOURS]] So we have three replicas, we have two replicas at the exhibition of our colleagues Bernardic, we have one replica on the presentation of our fellow Lalovec. First fellow Maras at the fair of fellow Bernardic. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197701	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you explained a whole series of laws that I don't think it's a good thing we didn't discuss before the vote today, because some proposals are certainly still very current and we just need to apply them. One such proposal is also the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act where we predicted that one parent should be allowed to stay with his child if both parents work because we know that school doesn't work, that our children are home. We must thank parents who at this time are making a great effort to make up for this situation that is with their children, teachers who send tasks parents must work because they simply have to gain knowledge. And it would be much easier if the state would allow one parent to be at home with his child and do what is necessary. Here's what I want you to further comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197702	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197703	Dear colleague Maras. Maybe that's why you said that we don't actually have the government's opinion today because if they asked anyone responsible from the health care system of any epidemiologist, you'd say that for the possibility of spreading the infection isn't as good as our thousands of citizens do, going to work with children because they don't have anywhere to leave them. They're going with little boys, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia it hasn't been recorded yet, but we've seen that young people and children can be infected around the world and unfortunately the coronarys of the virus are dying. Not to mention when you bring a child to work, that virus can spread faster. So I can't believe that in a month there's no understanding, no sense, no common sense when it comes to treating parents who should stay home with their children for up to 12 years to prevent and spread the infection, but to make their lives much more pleasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197704	Thank you. The next replica of a colleague of the coat of arms on a colleague of Bernardic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Maras spoke of one important measure, and I would single out one other which seems to me to be extremely important for Croatian citizens, which is a matter of moratorium on loan payments. What the government of the Republic of Croatia has agreed with Croatian business banks and what business banks are giving based on their decision is all but a moratorium. It is a delay, a delay that citizens and citizens will pay dearly because during the duration of that delay they will be charged interest on the entire principal of the loan. So, in this way, the banks will actually cost 6 months of delays to Croatian citizens and make extra money in this way. That is why I believe that this may be the most important measure of all that we have proposed, and I absolutely advocate its adoption and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197706	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197707	First of all, thank you, fellow coat of arms, for that observation. That's what we're going to insist on, it's inadmissible that at this difficult moment the banks are reaching for additional profits in those who are unhappy with this crisis, which are the most endangered. And it is unacceptable for the government to calmly observe that additional interest is being charged on loans that people can no longer pay, especially those 20,000 people who are out of work thanks to the late government reaction or those 400,000 who fear that they will lose their jobs because simply those companies where they work today are closed. And that's why it's necessary, and that's why we're going to insist on making a moratorium on loans for the citizens for a year, but in a way that doesn't account for any extra interest because it's absolutely certain that this crisis is going to last and that we're going to need some more time to get out of this crisis. That's why we've been looking for a year, not any less prolongation periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197708	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask a colleague of Lalovec and a colleague of Maras you have a replica on a colleague of Lalovec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197709	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, I'd like to comment on the situation regarding the delay and moratorium on the loans. At this point, we have a situation that is not regulated and defined, so some banks haven't charged loans by this date until they see that citizens are applying for them to process and examine it in some way who would have the right and who wouldn't have the right. But I think and I think it would be normal for the state to regulate the system and know exactly what situation citizens are entitled to the moratorium for a year and on the other hand to protect them from the uncertainty of the next months and the next year. Because we know all seasons will be zero, over 300,000 people will be out of a job very soon, 300,000 took advantage of the possibility of being on the minimal offered by the government, the state has to do it urgently, so we don't have time to wait because the banks already recognized certain problems I think the state should too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197710	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197711	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, for asking. That's why the SDP also proposes a moratorium for a year, precisely because this won't be over in three months, only at 6 and 7 months we'll see the state of unemployment in society, we'll see that a number of companies that will only then open their doors at 6 and 7 months start from zero, let's not forget that they start from scratch that these three months of moratorium mean nothing to them. These companies will all take more than a year to recover their pre-crisis traffic. And because of this, when these companies start from zero, they will likely have minimally certain revenues, no tourism, no economic activity, and therefore it is important that in the 6th, 7th and 8th months when economic activity is due to return, not all banks will be frozen to purchase all of the liquidity from the system and thus will still cause economic recession and therefore we expect a very fast liquidity fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197712	Thank you. Now the government's representatives will give an additional explanation in a united call it a 15-minute debate with you being able to replicate each and every one of them, they will change. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197713	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In addition, to the set of legal regulations as well as the conclusions proposed in this agenda, a total of 10, what was introduced and said in view of the government's obligation to give its position and opinion, which for obvious reasons is the speed of action, given that these proposals are also by emergency procedure, here I use the opportunity to present at least in this section as regards the Ministry of Finance, so colleagues in their section. I would just like to begin by thanking my colleagues from the SDP and everyone who voted today for these legal regulations adopted by this House of Commons, proposed by the Government in order to mitigate the effects of the coronary epidemic of the virus. So far, we have had two packages of legislation in March and now in this month, totaling 32 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 18 decisions and 3 conclusions are all aimed at protecting the health of citizens, and, of course, preserving jobs and preserving the liquidity of businesses so that the economy can survive at all. In this regard, because of sustainability and the state budget itself, they would point out that in this way and in this way these measures so far have been developed by the Government in terms of citizenship, and solidarity and synchronisation in the work of all components of society is more than necessary and important to emerge from this crisis as little as possible and that the economy and society can function as a whole. As regards the legal rules that came from the Ministry's domain, there were five, the General Tax Law as a roof regulation that regulates the relationship between the tax authority and the taxpayer through whose... we went to regulate all these provisions concerning the suspension of payments to ultimately write down claims all under the tax code through the General Tax Code. This is what we wanted to shorten the procedures and go line-by-line in that part of taxation, all of the norms went through the General Tax Law, and now, after today's vote of law, of course, will be accessed and drawn up by the regulations themselves, which will set the deadlines where they are needed in terms of moving deadlines, as is, for example, allowed through the amendment of the Accounting Act, but in this section through the Regulation they will be allowed to be now 30.6. or some other date due to this operationality daily because the situation is changing, they can be freely said from day to day. So it's very important to know that as we know we have the main factor or factor in this whole situation completely unknown, it's the length of the duration of this crisis, and with its length and impact on the economy. Therefore, this dosing of measures that the state budget can take or will have to pass through some other types of funding must be such that it is sustainable, that it generally exists as a state budget. As regards these provisions of some of these proposals, I would just like to mention, for example, the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act where an untaxable reward for risk-related risks to elemental disasters is proposed, I would like to remind you that we already have these provisions in norms as untaxable including health care that was previously untaxable. So I'm really sorry, and I wouldn't want it to turn out that we don't want to meet all these good demands that are being proposed here, but since the regulations that are mutually synchronised are both the Ministry of Finance and the other members of the government. Certain proposals here are somewhat contrary to some of the activities that we have today supported by the government's adoption of these legal proposals. Of course, as far as the third round that the prime minister announced in terms of measures related to citizens is concerned, I believe the next measure, and which you are now pointing out here, and I assume that this will have more to say to the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197714	Thank you. I'm asking the next representative of the government. So on your show we have three replicas, we'll do that later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197715	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. I present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in oral form on the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the amount of support to preserve jobs in activities affected by the Crown virus, the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament not accept this proposal for a conclusion on increasing the amount of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the virus virus submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives' Club. First of all, I must stress that the focus of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to protect health, as well as to preserve all jobs and fight for every job. We stand firm behind Croatian workers, and in this sense there is a measure and all the other measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken. The meeting, held on 2 April 2020, concluded on the second group of measures to help the economy resulting from an outbreak of the coronary virus and the implementation of all these measures provided 65 billion kuna, I repeat 65 billion kuna. And for the support we are talking about, support for job conservation is provided 8.5 billion kuna and according to the current projections that we have, this measure will cover 500,000 workers. In accordance with the policy of preserving jobs, the amount of support to preserve jobs in sectors affected by the coronary virus has been increased from 3,250 kuna, as you know to 4,000 kuna per worker for April and May of this year, and employers using those support will also be freed from the cost of corresponding contributions. Just to remind you, the state is also carrying the burden of paying a contribution of around 1,500 kuna. And what I must especially point out is that on today, therefore, on 7 April, we have received 84,000 requests for about 500,000 workers, and only so far have we paid 600 million kuna. You remember that some day already the employers who applied and whose application or application was valid that one day they sat down 600 million kunas in total for a job-preservation measure or support. What I must also particularly stress and remind is that both employers and workers and trade unions and the entire Croatian public have, to a great extent, praised this measure of support for the preservation of jobs. The level of support is set at 4,000 kuna in order to cover as I have said as many workers as possible, to ensure the necessary material protection, to keep people in employment and to facilitate the business of employers under special circumstances and, of course, to account for available financial opportunities. What I must also point out when we talk about support for job conservation, it also existed in the past crisis that lasted during the SDP, but I must state that at that time the support for the preservation of jobs was consumed in 4 years only 2,008 times. Well, thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197716	Time, please. We have two replicas on your exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197717	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. As for the Ministry of Justice's portfolio, we have already repeated several times that with due attention, given the circumstances in which we are working on several amendments to the current legislative proposals. First of all, the executive procedures at this point have stopped. It is our recommendation to the public notaries to make all the public notes available for deadlines that will run when this situation continues. So our recommendation is that public notebooks make executive solutions, but don't send them to the executives until they pass the circumstances caused by the COVID-19 crisis. Also in the following days, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take new measures to fully halt the executive procedures until the elements of this health threat have passed. As regards the proposal to reduce the tightening interest rate on trade relations and contracts between traders and public rights persons, we believe that, although we appreciate the proposal's intention, it was not only in this particular section that the other relations were taken into account. Also in the non-standard part, it is not explained until the end, which means this feedback and justification of such feedback in view of the situation that has arisen since the day we declared the pandemic, which is 19 March 2020. Considering everything that you have suggested the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also working on this set of legal changes that will come in a package with a resolution of laws relating to the Ministry of Justice. The question of deadlines is also a matter of several laws, with due regard to the specificity of the issue of deadlines at the Ministry of Justice, we have proposed and in a few days everything about deadlines will be available to the public in order not to question the functioning of the judicial system as a whole. I repeat, it is not time for us to speak politically now, professionally with the justice portfolio we will do everything to address the issue of blocked citizens in a few days, the issue of enforcement in a way that will stop until the circumstances that require the situation to be normal in the Croatian state continue in a way that we can work on the new Executive Law, and that we now do in this part of the crisis stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197718	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197719	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives of colleagues and colleagues. Here before I start reading what I'm going to say today given these points that I would just remind everyone present today that today is World Health Organization Day, and we can especially speak with pleasure because we all know very well that one of the founders, and surely the first president of the World Health Organization was ours. Andrija Printer. First, he would refer to the proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I must say that the legal proposal suggests that one of the parents has the right to pay wages during the temporary prevention to work for the care of a child up to 12 years of life for the closure of educational institutions and that is, if the reasons for the closure of a health or safety nature are on the burden of HZZO funds. Since the rights provided under compulsory health insurance rights are directly linked to the use of healthcare in the existence of a disease or medical indication to achieve the same, that issue cannot be regulated by the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and cannot be achieved on the burden of the means of compulsory health insurance because there is no medical indication for the same in the sense of the Health Insurance Act. The second promemory is mine, which speaks of the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the maximum or maximum monthly amount of salary compensation, on the burden of HZZO assets, isolated or self-insulated employees due to the Covida-19 epidemic. This proposal proposes to increase the maximum monthly amount of salary compensation on the burden of HZZO funds to isolated or self-insulated employees due to an outbreak of covids and to the amount of the average salary in the Croatian Republic in January 2020. The proposal is not acceptable without the provision of additional funding from the state budget and therefore we do not agree with the proposal of this law Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197720	Thank you. Please give me just stay here, and we'll go the other way because we have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, followed by his colleague Maras. And I apologize to Anka's colleague, Mr. Taritash. Just stay, so you can answer immediately that we don't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197721	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State and I join in reminding ourselves that today is the World Health Day, especially dedicated to nurses and midwives who make a really big contribution to this fight. What I want to ask you is, are you in charge of ensuring the financial stability of this system in the ministry, because after the end of the crisis, the situation will be even worse, and therefore I appeal that, at the same time with the fight against the crown of the virus, you lead and fight to save the financial stability of the health system when the coronary crisis is over. Also, since we have all received a letter from the Chamber of Health Care Professionals of a special segment of health laboratory activity, to withdraw from the e-consultation of the law currently in the debate on medical biochemical activity because it is not in conformity with all stakeholders and is a discrimination against the employees of the laboratory profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197722	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197723	I would refer to this first part, to this second part, I think we've talked a lot about it, and I think that when this entire epidemic of Corona virus passes, we'll have plenty of time to talk about it in peace. As far as the financial situation is concerned, the fact is that we are now in a special position to provide health care to all those who have suffered from Covidom-19 infection and that this is our priority because it means not only that we have to provide financial resources for the adaptation of our hospital spaces, for the opening of respiratory centres, for the unification of certain functions of intensive care, intensive therapy, the acquisition of apparatus etc., etc., so for now we in one part would say reduced health work on issues of more selective procedures, and to the maximum focus on what cannot wait, and these are clearly medical emergencyes and malignant diseases, in this respect we have maximum orientation. and technical and financial, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197724	Thank you. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197725	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, as I understand from your debate, the government, or the state, has no money to pay to allow parents to stay, at least one of the two employed parents to stay with their children at home. When we estimated what the amount would be for the next period, we came to some billions of kunas if we used that exactly all in the Republic of Croatia in such a situation, which probably wouldn't be the case. But it's amazing to me that for our children, for parents who have to work with them on their home education, who have to take care of them, try to be sure in some way not to expose them to this whole situation under the motto "stay home" the government says there's no money for it. For some other things that cost the same thing, there's money. Now, you explain to me why the government can't find the money to keep each of our parent employees at least one of them, with their children at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197726	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197727	So I can't speak on behalf of the government, I'm not Prime Minister or Prime Minister, but I can say what and repeat what I said today and today this part of the financial compensation is not part of it, not part of which would be the health insurance from which patients who need to finance the health system as a whole are financed. So he just can't get into this law. If the government has money from some other means, I can't say it right now because I'm neither Minister of Finance nor Prime Minister, but I can't get into HZZO health insurance, it's not the same, there's no place for that legal space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197728	A fellow Maras injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197729	Thank you very much. The 238th article was injured, you here Mr. Secretary of State said you couldn't answer because you're neither Prime Minister nor Minister of Finance, and why did you come here to give your opinion on it? Are you just here to convey greetings and messages or represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about this law? You must give us an answer if you are a representative of the government. Why is it not possible to secure these funds in the state budget? It's going to be budget rebalance, plan them, you can't tell us that's not possible. So I'm begging you, Mr. Vice President, they're here. Government representatives have to give us answers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197730	Thank you, so in. So just for a second, so you can't because this isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Maras. [[/Intruder: Can I answer?]] So they give answers within their means, so no injured Rules of Procedure Please don't do this anymore. [[Intruder: Within its resources.]] Third replica of Anka's colleague, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197731	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you are here on behalf of your ministry and on behalf of the Government and we expect answers from you. In my replica, I ask you to read the following fact. So we at the GLAS Club immediately applied for an emergency procedure of the law where those in self-insulation linked to the threat we have from the virus would have a fee different from that prescribed at this point. What exactly is this about? It's about two weeks of self-insulation, and we only gave that up when it started, the fee was 2,100 kuna and it remained. But there's something else, when we looked at that law, that compensation for people who decided to donate an organ to someone, so they give someone their kidney, when they're on sick leave to receive a fee of 4,400 kuna in a month. So I'm interested in your position regarding these self-insulation and organ donation charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197732	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197733	It is difficult to compare the diseases resulting from organ transplants and the issue of organ transplanters with Covida-19 infection. These are two things that in medicine simply cannot be compared because they have neither the same etiology nor the same medical I would say weight. As for financial compensation to people who are in isolation or self-insulation, it is as much as the Government has decided at the moment that they can give, and whether there will be financial resources in the coming period depending on the development of the overall situation with this pandemic that is something we will see in the future, and probably according to that, we will then be different and financially oriented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197734	Thank you. Now we have three replicas of Secretary of State Salapic. The first is a colleague of the coat of arms, you can talk slowly, and you'll make one small intervention. Thank you. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197735	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, I assume you know what I'm going to ask you, and this concerns the situation in the judiciary and the fact that despite the announcements made by the Minister of Justice Mr. Bosnjakovic in the interim building of a meeting in the basement of a historic ININE building 10 days ago, we still don't have a law that would regulate the course of court deadlines in times of crisis. And you and I both know how many problems there are in the Croatian judiciary otherwise, we know that these problems are further highlighted now in the Kovid era, we know that there are courts that are blocked because individuals in these courts have been infected, we know that the earthquake makes it impossible to use a whole series of courts buildings in Zagreb. My question is, when are you going to refer to the procedure a law that will regulate the time-limits in court proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197736	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197737	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, we are in preparation for the deadline law, and we have already repeated it several times. It's not about one law. It's about a set of laws and a very sensitive matter. What I can say responsibly, the justice system in the circumstances in which we are caused by the earthquake, Covidom-19, works so that the rule of law is not compromised at any time. As for the specifics, we are in a few days will be after Easter and with you here in Parliament discussing this. There is nothing that would endanger any citizens of the Republic of Croatia to protect their rights, and also as far as investigative procedures are concerned, the urgency of court proceedings, all courts in the Republic of Croatia are doing their job in such a way that these laws are implemented no matter where the court is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197738	Thank you. The next replica of Anka's colleague Mrak Taritas, followed by counterpart Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197739	Before starting with the replicas, distinguished secretary of state, therefore we are in this area not because of the crown but because of the earthquake that was in Zagreb. The earthquake that was in Zagreb, what we have a chance to see has done a lot of damage in courts that are basically in the lower city where there was damage. I'm curious, of course, when you're here, then you're going to give us answers to what we have a chance to ask you, which is whether it started with the damage recovery, as you've thought, whether or not with the Ministry in charge of the property you're seeing some other locations where the work of the judiciary might take place, because some resolutions will take a very long time, and we think that life can't stop and we hope that this threat will end quickly, so that life will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197740	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197741	Thank you very much. You were the Minister of Construction, and then you know that some demands are complicated. As far as the County Court building in Zagreb is concerned, the reconstruction took place immediately after the earthquake and will eventually become operational. As for replacement properties, we have found several locations that will soon be published by one of them is a building on Harambasic Street that has about 4000 square meters, there will be moved by certain judicial institutions, the Commercial Court, part of the Administrative, etc. What we've been doing certainly from the day of the earthquake to today, we've taken steps to make the entire justice system work soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197742	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197743	Thank you. Dear Secretary Salapic, please answer my very simple question, you have now announced publicly that the government will prepare a stalemate of all tasks. But from what I've come from the media, I've concluded that it's a law relating to monetary performances, but I'm asking you specifically now, does this mean that it's going to be a stalemate of all tasks, means those who go through the FINE and those who the employer takes out from pay and pay the creditor where the pension is, too, part of the pension goes to the believer, will all of this be covered by the stalemate, and will there be a delay in the flow of tight interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197744	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197745	Your Honor, I've said and I repeat three times, we've been working on everything, we've made a recommendation to the public notaries to do a stop since the day the earthquake happened and these results caused by Covidom-19. No executioner has received an executive solution, no action, no execution, no actions. Within a week, we will unblock 240,000 citizens in time of 3 months when they will be able to fully manage their incomes in full amounts. As for the others, if I did not say in advance something that needs to be discussed on professional bodies, I would not want to be hasty to make sure that at this point we stop and help as many Croatian citizens as possible at the risk of this health threat in a way that we will stop as much as possible with the executive procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197746	Thank you. Next we have two replicas to the secretary of state, Mrs. Buric. We have, first is colleagues Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic. A little intervention, so we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197747	Dear Secretary of State, you have proudly pointed out in your presentation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the first step of 3,200 kuna in the second of 4,000 kunas net and around 5,200 gross for more than 80,000 employers and about 500,000 Croatian workers. I wonder if you can give us information on how much of these 500,000 workers before the crisis and before the decision on the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had a salary greater or significantly greater than that 3,200 kuna or 4,000 kuna or whether you can tell us how many of them fell to the minimum because of this government decision and whether these employers will still feel this crisis or not, or whether it will fall on the back of those 500,000 workers. And on the other hand, I have to comment that in your comparison of support from the SDP government I have an impression, I hope I'm wrong, as if you're lucky that this crisis hit Croatia so that you can say that HDZ has given 500,000 support, which is much less than he was giving the SDP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's exactly what I noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197748	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197749	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Giujic, I'm sorry that your feeling is cheating on you, it's very cheating on you. So I'll repeat our focus is health protection and on the other hand protection of all jobs. That is why we have provided an additional 8.5 billion kuna for the support measure to preserve jobs. What I must also tell you is that today we have 84,000 demands for about 500,000 workers, and so far we have paid about 600 million kuna. We're working at five speeds and moving on intensively. I just want to say that in the HZZ which is the implementing body for this measure, officials work in two shifts, so it is really intensive and what is our main intensity and the main goal is to preserve jobs. Also facilitating employers, facilitating workers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197750	Thank you. Next replica of colleague Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197751	Mrs Buric argued in her presentation that the measures of the government of the Republic of Croatia are equally supported by employers, workers and trade unions. It's only partially true. So you've respected almost all the proposals that came from the HUP, but not a single proposal that came from the union. Moreover, an amendment to the Labour Act has been prepared in your ministry to derogate workers' rights. That's fortunately prevented at the GSV session at least for the time being. Can you tell me if you are planning to bring any changes to the Labour Law in due time or if you are planning something else that we have already heard to suit workers, rather than going towards breaking this crisis just over their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197752	Thank you. Here's an answer from the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197753	Thank you very much. So that component, which is unfortunately unpredictable, is the duration of this entire crisis related to the crown, i.e. Covid-19. Our short-term measures and the medium-term measures are presented, before you. What I am extremely pleased about is that a very high consensus has been reached, I will repeat both employers and workers and unions and the overall social community and I believe that in any case it is something that is very important at this time and because of the feelings of our citizens and the sense of security and protection in very, very difficult and challenging times. Anyway, what I also have to tell you is that we've opened absolutely all the questions, we've assumed all the questions and we're considering [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197754	Thank you. And the last set of replicas on Secretary of State Zrinasic. There you go. You don't have a replica anymore. First up, she's a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197755	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have spent a lot of time with us in this crisis, and in your opening statement, you have explained what you have done, what you have done, what you intend to do. We don't normally think in GLAS that the state should always and every time everything is very sharp and everything needs to be regulated and regulated, but when it comes to banks, when it comes to the moratorium on loans, when it comes to the lying houses that colleagues were talking about in the opening presentation, we don't think that it can just work on a deal between the resolution minister and the banks, so that banks decide, we think it should also be defined by law. Don't let it happen to us that behind this crown epidemic and the downfall of the economy, the only one who will benefit from it and come out richer will be the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197756	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197757	Here, thank you very much. I agree with your suggestion in terms of the treatment of all entities in this crisis and the financial sector mentioned. Of course, this one division of all the participants in this situation is very important in terms of balance and tomorrow the continuation of life, as well as our citizens, and economic operators, and ultimately the financial institutions that in their part this is leaning on or these former ones are leaning on them. We have had some further proceedings that financial institutions have launched against the Republic of Croatia for, due to the adoption of certain legal norms that we still have court proceedings outside the Republic of Croatia, and in that sense, the government in the first steps has been better agreed than imperative if it is possible. Of course, this tall home and all together We'll bring certain regulations that are best. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197758	Thank you. Comrade coat of arms, here's another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197759	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, of course, and my question will be focused on the moratorium on loans, you understand why. I got word today by a gentleman with his situation, a loan he took last year, a war of 3,000 kunas a month, a clear principal in this year has paid nothing back. In order to get a six-month stay, so to get a refund of $18,000, the bank will account for an interest of more than 12,000. Do you think that's okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197760	Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197761	Thank you very much. Now you've brought up one case that is probably and life-like, I really can't get into the calculations right now, but the situations that have happened so far, or today, in terms of the crisis triggered by the corona virus, they're not at all comparable, so we're going to agree, and what this crisis is about to take action is to take those measures that were unimaginable until yesterday. So in this sense, what we are discussing today and what will be discussed in the coming days and making appropriate decisions will certainly require some measures that may not have been imagined in the past, and so this question that you are now asking, indeed weighs now what is right, you are a lawyer in the given conduct in terms of the Law on Mandatory Relations and other measures that, in certain exceptional circumstances, are necessary to take, this is something that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197762	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197763	Thank you, Vice President. So, first of all, I would like to say that all state secretaries here represent the government and I can't say that they don't represent the government, if they don't represent the government, they shouldn't have come here, she should have come as Prime Minister and Minister. Why is the suspension of the moratorium on loans of 3 months not sufficient? Because people took credit for example. in tourist activity extended either quality or expanded their accommodation facilities. This season is gone, it is clear to all of us, because the crown must stop not only in Croatia it must stop throughout Europe or around the world for tourists to go at all. Those people already know. What does it mean to them if after three months they have to pay off the loan, and they don't make money because this year they won't make any money. So, come on, let's approach the reasonable problem, reasonablely. So this proposal of ours to be for a year until they start working, until they start working is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197764	Thank you. Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197765	Thank you very much for asking. The measures launched by the Government during March and relating to the Coronal Virus, of course, are seen in terms of other Member States that are economically stronger and more powerful in terms of the construction of measures concerning the state budget. In this part and other measures that are not directly related to the state budget, of course the government has watched other Member States do so since we are EU members. Indeed, it is one graduation and degree of measures, so that the synchronicity and solidarity of all participants is now extremely important and not only as a flossula, and not only as a flossula, but also as an necessity to overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197766	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the proposal, actually, a set of laws. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, so she is a colleague of Grozdana Peric's. Here you go, after the intervention, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197767	Respect for the esteemed vice president, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, first and foremost to the Government, and we must always respect all the good proposals that are possible to always be accepted and incorporated into even better legal proposals. What we cannot accept at this time, which is this set of your laws, the SDP proposal, primarily because, as you know, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, and unfortunately, the earthquake that took place on the 22nd of this month and last month, so the two situations that were in any scenario were actually amazing. When the government agreed on those first March measures, it was only thinking about what would happen and what would be the consequences of the pandemic, and you know very well that when any measure is taken that all facts must then be considered, all the effects that would be and how such a situation would reflect both on the economy and on private lives, and in the first place on the health of the population or the whole nation. Therefore, when such measures are taken, they must be very well thought out. You have to take full parameters as if you're doing a new budget because all of the details you have to take care of. So in that first set, the measure covered what we had previously adopted, and we cannot say that it was very bad at that moment. The second set of measures came after this not even 15 days and today we adopted it and you must admit that there are many factors involved that have helped and calmed the whole situation and the uncertainty that has been caused by these two disasters. In the first part of the fee itself was 3,250 plus contributions, now it is 4,000 plus contributions, and in the meantime you see that there have been changes in that everything, every employer who fired a part of the worker precisely because of this uncertainty that he will be able to continue to work, has been given the opportunity to bring these employees back, and at this point there are 13,600 employees who then exercise the right, so they do not interrupt the employment relationship and return to the system of work and have the right to compensation of 4,000 kuna increased for the contributions that are once again on the burden of the state budget and what is important to say that the weight of these measures is over 8.5 billion kuna. At this point, we know that over 60,000 taxpayers, or entrepreneurs, have requested this measure and that more than 600 million kunas have already been paid. Very soon, so in the month, and only a practical application was made. What you should also say is that in, that citizenship and what you have in certain legal requirements is actually a request for a moratorium and so on. credit obligations are all understood, but at this point what we have brought is that through the amendments to the General Tax Law we have regulated exactly the possibility of these obligations being suspended temporarily, to stop the implementation and for all other public duties, and it is certainly always a question of what, after 3 months or after 6 months. And it's perfectly justified that we all think about it because each one of us has or has or has credit obligations and certainly doesn't care when that obligation arrives. However, let the government do and do these, these two packages that will be adopted within a very short period of time, and a new measure that will allow citizens to be so much more peaceful and that it can function in this way. It's already mentioned today what happens and when it's going to happen. In fact, it's very important how long it's going to take this particular measure that's caused by Covido-19. And what remains secretly to us in the following certainly 7, 8 if not for many years, which is these measures that will need to be done to help citizens rebuild apartments, houses, historical sights, churches, etc. and we will certainly have much help from EU funds. What we are also talking about when we talk about a set of these measures is about paying VAT, I have already mentioned that in the VAT projection for this year there were over 50 we expect revenue 55 and some billion kuna and now after this everything that happens pandemic, there is no tourism, there is no consumption, and besides these elemental disasters, then we can assume how much impact all this will have on the revenue side of the budget that cannot expect so much charge and which will have to think very much about a lot of other sources of funding. We must not forget that it is already in previous measures that it is possible for companies to private up to 7.5 million traffic or over 7.5 with a 20 per cent or more drop in traffic to 50%, that the possibility of partly prolonging, reprogramming, to write off part of the claim and debt, therefore a large part of these measures has already been consumed and I think that the Government has responded in a very good and rapid way about all of this. What you just insisted on, and this secretary of state expected to answer your question, so it really can't happen if something isn't caused by disease, infection, etc. that pay compensation cannot then be compensated from a source of compulsory health insurance, then there are other measures because you know it is illegal. So you can't prejudge something, so you can't be sick, but there was a measure for it, and there's a way that you can pay off on a different basis, and another way that can be helped, and eventually it's accepted and we finally adopted it. So when we look at the total of these measures that are now over 45 billion kuna plus 20 billion that have reached commitments from previous periods, then you see that the set of these measures is over 9.6% of our GDP, which is certainly more than many other European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197768	Thank you, thank you. We're continuing on behalf of the clubs. Next registered counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. A colleague of Zekanovic does not have and in accordance with Article 233 he loses the right to talk about this item of the agenda for, throughout the entire debate. We continue with the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, colleagues of Grmoje and colleagues of Bulj shared the debate. First one's a colleague of the Grmoi. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197769	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we warned with that first package of government measures that these measures would not be enough, we said that we needed to go to the write-off, not to the delays, and the government listened to us. At that time, no amendment to the opposition was accepted. Not because these amendments were bad because it proved later that the government was all what we were saying at the Most but also other colleagues actually accepted, but they weren't accepted just because they came from the ranks of the opposition. Today we have the same situation, the second, second round of the Government package, all the amendments we have given have been rejected and it can be concluded that in this crisis situation the opposition shows unity and constructiveness, and by ruling again shows one party boredom. This is what grieves all over this story, and in particular the sadness that those first to be thought of, to whom the first should be intended package they will come third in a row, in the third round after Easter. Our seniors, our pensioners, our unemployed, our blocked and completed. MOST first thinks of you or think of you first, not as the last, as those on which the measures will be taken after the Easter. We asked the Croatian Parliament to continue the session, to support itself or our proposal because we too have a proposal on a moratorium on loans and performances or a proposal from colleagues from the SDP, but we do not even ask for that. Give you your ruling proposal, give your government colleagues your proposal we will gladly raise your hand to him. Our citizens who are the most endangered in our society deserve a peaceful and peaceful Easter, deserve a resurrection without a cold, a resurrection without fear, a Easter in joy with their families. So much for me, and hopefully here you'll change your mind, there's still time, the president of the assembly can call and tomorrow's session of the assembly, the government can give its measures and we'll be happy to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197770	Please stop the time for a moment, thank you. A little intervention. Thank you, ma'am or miss. Here you go, fellow Bull, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197771	My colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representatives of the government, why am I partly disappointed? Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said so too, but it is noticeable in the general public that the opposition is making constructive proposals, and that the Government simply rejects them, and anything proposed constructively by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the opposition accepts it. These measures that the MOST has also given, and we are now discussing the SDP measures especially about the most endangered, about the postponement of the credit, about the delay of the performance, that's what the first tribal is about, the first measure. These people are the most endangered right now. No one would forgive these people, but it would be delayed if they weren't responsible for this crisis. And what he would point to here, today was a vote on the results of Croatian politics, poor conduct of Croatian agriculture, bad leadership, so I gave the law on the ban on the sale of agricultural land. The government rejected it, both foreign and legal, foreign and legal individuals. It is the government of the Republic of Croatia, the honourable representatives of the government, the citizens, if you are looking, who refused to sell agricultural land, refused my proposal to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. And the agricultural land, is, right now, agriculture has said that the wrong policies we had mainly towards agriculture so that it disappoints me that the opposition is constructive at this point, accepts all the proposals that you government representatives make, and you reject all of ours from the opposition, but these are proposals for the benefit of the citizens. Well, a lot of the suggestions I've made for SDP hasn't voted for them, but this is a good proposal, I'll support it. You would hardly accept any amendment, any proposal from the opposition. Why? Because you're using both the crisis and this health and economic crisis exclusively for the PR, and that's not good, everyone here is equal, we're all at risk. Thus, when we are discussing these laws and speaking now with us at Easter today, he represented the council in this crisis, of course, that they should be much, much more constructive from the position of power. If we're looking for a delay, because now it's SDP law, and MOST suggested it, the MOST Club and this and other colleagues in the opposition don't see any reason why you wouldn't accept it and why the government didn't put that measure into emergency procedure and we would vote again today or come tomorrow. And not now for Easter you leave that space, the greatest Christian holiday I congratulate from this place I wish all happy and blessed Easter, the greatest Christian holiday to all our citizens. For days, it was broken whether markets should be opened, so of course the triba with all the respect measures because it is more likely to be infected by the coronary virus in a closed area trade chain, but foreign products are sold there, and domestic products were mostly sold in the markets. Here I hear the announcement now and it is my pleasure that after a long, long application will open up markets that should not have been closed at all, but with all the criteria of respect that the Tribals would respect as in trade chains, but better to buy Italian pomidores, it is better to buy strawberries than this Spain than Vrgoračka, it is better to buy meaning those products. Here, I would say in the end that I am disappointed that we are not continuing to work while all groups of unemployed, retired, particularly completed and blocked and, of course, all these measures he has proposed in this case suggest opposition to what we are leaving. The government could have made this simple, it could have made a proposal for its additions and we could have settled it in this big week before it meant Big Thursday and Big Friday. In this way we would actually come to a solution and a peaceful Easter. In the end, you would wish all the citizens a happy and blessed Easter, hopefully if there are measures here, you see 151 of us here that on this greatest Christian holiday and Croatian believers will have the possibility under all measures either within the sacral churches, either outside churches, here you in the government or in front of churches or in the courtyards will be allowed at least to share, not all, part of the people, the believers can unfortunately have the opportunity to participate in this greatest Christian meanings on Easter, the greatest Christian holiday and the sacrament. And once again, I wish you all a happy and blessed Easter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197772	Thank you. We are continuing to debate on behalf of the club of MPs, next is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, in front of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Taritash. So five minutes dark, five minutes Taritate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197773	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the Crown Virus or Covida-19, no matter what we call it, has caused major changes in our lives. One of these changes will also be seen on the greatest Christian holiday of Easter that we will certainly not be working in a circle of some broader family because everyone is staying home and I really respect that if you are guarding yourself, guarding someone else and keeping everyone around you and we are taking care of it. We sit here at a distance, we don't shake hands, we take care of each other, and when we talk to someone, we use space. And that's all the coronary virus has changed, but something hasn't changed. It did not change that when it comes to opposition proposals that they will get their place in the Croatian Parliament in the worst time, so now not even the evening term, but after the vote, this package of laws won and did not change that when the opposition gives amendments, that these amendments, no matter how reasonable they may be, how helpful they might even be, that they refuse to explain themselves. I'm just going to refer to me as the favorite amendment that was rejected today by our club, we've given an amendment that is related to office leaders and tourism that, because of the Corona virus or Covida-19, they no longer need to know foreign language. So when the coronary is a virus or a Covida-10, those who run offices, they don't have to know foreign language with tourism. And now we say the amendment of my people so don't do crazy things, it has nothing to do with it, and it's being rejected, and it's quite serious, the secretary of state has explained why it's happening, if you're asking me why, I don't know, but it's been pretty serious. But let's get back to this subject. The first set of measures that was in March, I must admit that I'm always somehow trying to understand, so whether or not I agree with that first set of measures that we can call March I understood. We didn't know what the scales were, no matter what the crown was rolling behind the hills when it came to Europe, someone got a little better, someone got a little worse. It was not a willingness to bring some options, or some variants, because it did not know how long this would take. So I had this first set of measures that way. The second set of measures I called April 1 0, because with the certainty that a second set of measures will come in April which we will call April 2 0, all those who spoke can't go in just a delay you have to write off, you have to define something. We spoke as opposition MPs, they spoke to the businessmen, they all said, and in that second set of measures, some things were heard. And you saw that at the vote that was today and that was 130 of us, I don't remember when we were, the last time we were 130 when there was a set of measures or a little less of those Marchs, it just means that after all, the MPs, no matter how we were perceived, are responsible. We are responsible for what we are saying, we are responsible for certain crisis situations and this responsibility and opposition parliamentary deputies are really ready to take over on their backs and no matter what you're discussing and with some things you disagree with and some things you warn us that now the situation is next, which is that we need to support and support a set of measures, but for tango we need two. Tango doesn't go to one, so no matter how you turn around, but the other one's just like that, he's gone to sleep somewhere, and he's waiting somewhere. That's what I'm saying between, so the opposition suggests something, and on the other hand it's a government that's pretty hard to say that these things can't be accepted, but then at some headquarters conferences that I can really say that it seems to me that it's doing a good job, it's using time to deal with some political inexperiences, which is not good. So, at these moments, the opposition has made clear everything from the government that comes, and we conclude that it is good that it will help the citizen, we will support the citizens, but we also think that the time when the opposition proposes something, so sit down, talk, let's talk. And it's not even a problem that then the government in some package April 2 0, May 1 0 or that took what was there and said here we took and said one sentence is the subject of a common agreement. As long as the crown lasts, it should listen to experts and they somehow predict how it will grow, fall, linearly and everything else. What will be the consequences of the Corone or Covida-19 on the economy that no one, regardless of the experiences they have, can predict. It seems to us that this crisis is to be used for a few things. The first thing to take advantage of is a little look at our laws being written. They're being written unreasonablely, written in a way that we don't want them to be understood by anyone, complicated, complicated in procedures, we tend to complicate where we shouldn't. Maybe one of the situations, or the outcome of this crisis, that we all think about it together a little bit. I will only take one example, of course I live in the City of Zagreb, until the City of Zagreb would care, an example of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the behaviour of the City of Gas. People closed the gas in houses that weren't even damaged by the earthquake because they were well built. The gas station said okay, to let you gas out, you have to come to us, you have to fill in 3 or 4 requirements in the context of the crown only you come to us maybe someone has, so we'll split it up and pay 3,000 kuna and then when you do all that, then we'll make a list of priorities and we'll go and release that gas. My people, if it weren't true, it would be for one of those comedies or soap operas, but that's true. So, the first time I heard it from a guy in the city gas station, I was sitting at home, I thought I heard something wrong, I heard something. So, from this crisis, maybe we could come out smarter because look at the e-citizen working neatly, everything works through emails, let's be something smarter and try to see the regulations and see what we regulate and how we regulate it. Another thing we should be able to get out of this crisis, we should be clearly wondering what kind of economy we want for Croatia, whether we want to hang on to tourism, whether we want to only hang on to imports and certain services, or if we think something else is going on here. Today we voted for the amendments to the Agriculture Act, which in the sense of no one at all is disputed, but in the debate we're the Minister of Resorna was with us, we said something we might need to take well-meaningly, we think the time has come when agriculture is for a serious reset. Something about that farm and the way we work is wrong. This is the moment when we can reset ourselves, we can take the green plan that the EU has made regarding climate change, more climate change after 2 months we no longer mention ourselves, and two months ago our mouths were full of climate change, see what the green threshold for agriculture is, and maybe it's a strategy for the development of Croatia's agriculture with some adjustments. From this set of laws, it is especially important that the law which speaks of a delay is related to loans. No, and that's what I said to the secretary of state, and I repeat, and now for the rest of this pay phone, don't let this crisis that's hit us all, we still don't know what the scales are, the ones that come out unscathed or richer, be banks, like it was in every crisis. Let's try to really take care of our citizens and the problems they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197774	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The last reported debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives was a debate reported by counterpart Tomislav Žagar, in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197775	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear State Secretarys and State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. The HSU Club, independent representatives, New Politics and SNAGA will support this set of laws proposed by the SDP Club because one member of our club participated actively in the preparation of these laws. Why is that? Well, this set of laws, first of all, all those measures that the government, which we voted today, are vertical and horizontally expanding. Vertically in the amount of compensation and assistance to be provided, and horizontally to most of our citizens who are not covered by these measures that we adopted here at HS today. Namely, the secretary of state here when she initially explained why the government rejects these bill proposals, I apologize, that's a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club said two important dates, one date was March 19th when the pandemic was declared and the second date was March 22nd when the earthquake was in Zagreb. Why do I mention these two laws? We can see that this process is extremely turbulent and dynamic and that the government, at least so far, has not shown the right way of planning, planning future activities, but is exclusively used for what is otherwise used when steering or managing, requires some kind of feedback, so on 23rd of the earthquake in Zagreb, the 23rd of March center has made a decision to ban leaving the place of residence. Watch out, places of residence, and then this caused a huge amount of passes that were issued because we have 6756 seats in Croatia. That picture shows how things work out only when they come up, and little is planned in advance. Of course, respecting the fact that it's hard to do things and plan ahead. The second thing that matters, as far as these measures are concerned, was not a great situation before the outbreak in the Republic of Croatia. So, even before the outbreak occurred, 140 thousand people were at the Employment Service, but we must not forget the large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had left the Republic of Croatia before that and hired in other countries. We also see that these citizens are returning to the Republic of Croatia, they have no place to go but to the Employment Service, and since the adoption, since the announcement, since the crisis occurred, we see that a large number of citizens have already ended up at the Employment Office. It is true that these government measures can be re-employed and re-received, this amount provided for in the measures. It is seen here that this is a serious, serious crisis and that what the secretary of state has highlighted, and what is the most important parameter in the whole crisis, which is the time of this crisis, which no one can predict how long it will last. So we have an extremely dynamic and busy period in which entrepreneurs will have to respond to the challenges ahead. That's why I think this set of measures is good, but the government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact, the Ministry of Finance, the minister, will have to respond as soon as possible to what kind of rebalancing is expected of the budget in the future. To that question, I think it's going to be the biggest, the biggest challenge on this issue is going to be. And what is crucial is why these measures should be supported. The government will certainly think of them if it does not support them, because although the announcement of this third set of measures will be directed towards citizens, so that it will not be late, because as I said, citizens who are already at the Employment Service, everyone who, whether earlier, has now gone to the Bureau, all who have had problems serving their obligations, especially loans, there are, of course, students, pensioners who find it difficult today. It's hard for them for a number of reasons, and mostly for the fact that their pensions are small, and then this crisis hit them. For all these citizens, therefore, measures should be taken to facilitate and enable them to live and overcome this difficult situation. When GDP is growing, the biggest benefit is those who are richer, but even when GDP falls, it breaks over the back of the poorest, and therefore these measures are very important. In the last debate there when we had in the INA building I mentioned it, I will mention again, that, not by chance, and the financial sector will not hesitate to come out of this process uncircumcised, and in fact they will try to come out uncircumcised in all ways, and that is what the credit rating agency which has reduced Croatia by one degree. Their assessment that GDP would fall by 5%, this could mean according to that rough, budget that the unemployment rate would be 2.5% at least and that is 50,000 people without jobs and these are the things that we will have to answer because it is about citizens who will be out of work, employers of course who will have to close their trades or their businesses and because of these things we need to think about measures as soon as possible and bring them forward. That's why I think this set of measures is good, we'll support them at the club, and I'm telling the government to think hard if he doesn't want to accept the proposals coming from the opposition, and we see that this is the case, so let the public, as soon as possible, have a set of measures that will allow citizens to overcome this crisis and live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197776	Thank you, too. We ended the discussion on behalf of the clubs. We're continuing an individual debate. I'd like to ask Miss for a little intervention, and then a colleague of mine, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the adoption of this second package, I believe that most of these legal proposals on behalf of the SDP Club will be implemented through the regulation and the former provisions of certain laws. Likewise, certain legislative proposals are not intended to say so to the address to which they might be said, but what I think is also why I came forward for an individual debate and wanted to share with you, and also to point out one problem that first and foremost my colleague Lalovac and I have been talking about in this assembly for a long time, which is a liquidity problem. And this directly binds to this law on credit forgiveness because when we talk about liquidity, then citizens are also liquid and liquid. So, did this legal proposal cover all the obligations that Croatian citizens have. Not only do Croatian citizens have only loans, they also have a commitment to leasing societies and a commitment to card houses, a commitment to insurance companies, a commitment to teleopers and a number of other obligations. Therefore, this law, and I think that the Government is thinking about it, must be complete and must cover all aspects of the obligations that our citizens have. Also, colleagues and colleagues should not forget that over the past few years Croatian entrepreneurs from craftsmen have had an extremely high investment cycle, investing money in economic activities. And many of them have found themselves in this package of measures that the government has proposed, which is to pay salaries and not have to pay pension and health for the simple reason, whether because of the provisions of the headquarters, whether because of this or that reason they simply stopped doing business. And we're talking about a moratorium on loans, so we just have to put all of them in those packages. And that's why the law deserves far wider scope, deserves far more attention for reasons, if we don't approach it that way she thinks we're going to make a lot of trouble. The other thing, from a month ago and a few days ago when there was a law on insurance in the assembly I repeat about the responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. To be honest, I expected that both business banks and Leasing companies and insurance companies would come out with some package of their own when this crisis started with one single goal to protect those who bring them profits. Because they, if those who took up credit with them who made insurance policies or who took something to Leasing if they can't pay them first, put them in trouble. So they should be in the interest of finding that first package. And I think the government is talking in that direction. We have heard that the CNB has already brought about certain changes that they can react to, and if in such a way we could approach this problem which I believe is crucial to the state's funding problem in the coming months, then the law would be comprehensive. And it's a good idea for a colleague from the SDP Club to propose it as a law, but this bill of yours solves only one small segment, just one small segment. Because what difference does it make whether you have to pay the loan or whether you need a war lying to society or whether you need to pay the war to the insurance company, no. It's your obligation that if, and what I think is still important at this point, if you work normally, you do business, you get paid, then this measure doesn't have to apply to you. This measure should apply to those who do not function normally, who do not receive salaries and ultimately we as a social state must take care of our citizens. And I'm saying I think the government will come out with a package that will certainly take care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, without intending to tell you, but colleagues and colleagues you've only dealt with this law one little segment, and that's why I wanted to share this debate with you because I think Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197778	We have one replica, please you can stay. He's a friend of Sagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197779	Dear fellow Shuker, I agree with you, it's true it would be very good for the banks to decide to negotiate with their clients to see which way it goes. However, this so you know from experience doesn't work, it just doesn't work, it's about positions of power, banks are extremely powerful compared to their clients, especially citizens. And actually this, as far as I understand it, is going towards the weakest, the most vulnerable, because with them banks are hardly going to negotiate. It is therefore necessary to define legal frameworks to create moratories on commitments, but not in such a way as to further accumulate interest later, but to simply buy that time for these people, so that while they overcome the crisis, they can continue to serve their obligations. Of course you're right when you talk about other obligations, like, according to the Leasing societies and everyone else, but I think it's from the position that it's hard to expect that banks will work that way. They still need to be legally forced to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197780	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197781	Comrade Sagar, that you listened carefully to what they said, I said that legally, if we need to, we need to solve everything. And the normal thing is that we have to think about those who are the most vulnerable, that we have to react here, but I repeat, everyone in their segment is important. And I guess the banks burned after that big crisis 10 years ago and how great they are. The placements had to be converted into non-refundable claims and that they would think and think about how to save those who ultimately bring them profits and repay loans and pay interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197782	Thank you. The next debate is a debate from fellow Pernar. And a little intervention from my colleague Pernar. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197783	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The solutions this government has for the current crisis are not adequate and will not solve it, and I will explain why. The main problem is with loans, by putting on a moratorium, the cause of the problem is not solved. The problem is that these loans will ultimately need to be paid back and that many people living on tourism during the summer months are expensive money to pay off the loan for the rest of the year. However, in this case, what will happen? Moratorium will last, for example. For the next few months, they'll run out of money from the season, it's just a season, for example. failed, which is very likely to happen and suddenly end this extraordinary state of Beroshevo. Yeah, this isn't gonna last forever. And what happens when it goes away? And then the banks will say now, look, there's no state of emergency, the loans have to go back, and the revenues from this summer are gone. Where are these people gonna get your loans back from? They've got nowhere to go. Another problem, all the time this moratorium, interest is accounted for. So are you aware of what that means? Where are people gonna get those interest back from? The legislator doesn't care. Here's an identical example of the work. The government says we're introducing a moratorium to execution. And what does that mean in practice? Well, in practice, it means that the same scheme goes on the same way. It's not going to stop now, it's just going to bring down that waterfall, as soon as these measures are cut off, and the reason for this whole executive hell is that the performances are actually given to public notebooks, which they can account for whatever fees and what ultimately, you have enormous costs of the execution, so people don't necessarily kill the debt for water of 200 kuna, but they get killed by the costs of the execution. They're getting killed by the fee that FINA's taking. FINA is taking an enormous fee. Did the government solve that question? No, I don't. The government neither solves the issue of interest, or there are no interest moratories, nor does it think about what will be left of income with people this summer, and when the moratorium passes, it will have to. Yes, when the moratorium passes and this state of emergency passes, it will have to continue to repay the loan, it has nowhere to go. The government doesn't care about that. This solution that the government has, you know what these solutions are? These are short-term solutions. Maybe the government has a solution to the election of parliamentarys at 9:00. I mean, what's it gonna be in 10, 11, 12, 1, 2, 3. Mesa, 5 months. Next year? And the government doesn't think about it. This is one crazy way, this policy has no vision whatsoever. Also, there's one more thing I want to say. If the population is not divided into young and old, both healthy and sick, and it will go with a general quarantine story that is being imposed on us at all times, it will take a very long time for a critical number of people in the population to get infected and get over the crown. Yeah, that's the problem. It's going to take a very long time, instead of being, because young people, they have no mortality at all, 0.1%. Instead of allowing young people to get over, get immunity, a critical part of the population to have resistance to this virus and end with quarantine measures, quarantine measures will be delayed indefinitely. And you know what kind of solution they're going to offer? Then he'll offer as a solution, what? The vaccine. And then they'll tell my people, we have to protect the weaker. But you all need to be vaccinated. And what about those who refuse to vaccinate? He'll be in trouble again. I don't see where this policy leads, I can't understand people who support the general instead of selective quarantine. I don't know how many more months they're planning on keeping the whole people in this agony because people are mentally firing and they can't take this condition anymore. But nobody cares about that, and half the country's on the minimal, which is what those who are unemployed and who were planning to do, seasons, have nothing to live on, so nobody cares. The state doesn't regulate it at all, I asked Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic, what about those who don't have a fee from the Stock Exchange? What do they live on now that they can't find a job? And Plenkovic says, Alardovic will find a solution. I don't see him yet. When will this solution come? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197784	Thank you, colleague Pernar. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Sasa Djujic, please a little intervention, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197785	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues from the SDP. So here's how much the government is interested in our measures and our proposals, this shows that there aren't any MPs in the hall right now except for the SDPs. So, they're full of the mouth of the community and all that... Now you're in, now you're in [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you're in. ... [[Intruder: Mr. Pernar.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197786	Mr. Pernar, Mr. Pernar Mr. Djujic, Mr. Pernar. [[You're in from the outside now.]] Mr. Pernar Mr. Pernar. ... [[Intruder: Yes.]] Mr. Pernar, a reminder [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm not gonna throw him out, but I'm giving him a warning, this behavior is not appropriate. [[Don't kick him out because then he'll say you threw him out on purpose so I can say there's no one but us.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197787	Here, I welcome fellow Pernar who just returned and fellow Shucker who has now entered, thank you very much. So what I'm saying is, this is already the 3rd package of measures SDP is proposing. 3. package, so after the first two of which none of them were adopted, none of them were accepted. So we propose certain solutions and certain measures that the Government then partially accepts after a while. The same thing is with this package. So here and just now, my colleague Schucker said in his debate that we're covering a small part, a small segment of the problem when we're talking about a moratorium on loans, that we haven't fully worked it out and worked it out, let's just say that the government is going to cover that part in its future action, and it's going to work it out together. But he didn't tell his colleague Shuker that our proposals, for example, were not working. He didn't say, because he knows that he's part part of it, part of it's good. I listened well, I heard it all right. Well, what's the problem, you know what my colleague Shucker is? We are proposing these packages because the ruling HDZ has not included the opposition since the first day of the conversation. You didn't turn it on. You can nod all you want. You're not. You are sitting alone with yourself and this second package of government measures that was now, which was delayed in part you presented to your coalition partners, and you did not find it appropriate to invite opposition representatives to this conversation, you did not. Because you don't need us, because you don't care what we have to say, and that shows this hall here today. Empty, just you fellow Shucker, here you are, and colleague Pernar. And my colleague Pernar. ... So when I don't have anyone, how am I supposed to, what am I gonna mention about Sanader when he's not here? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What am I going to say? Who? I mean, what am I going to say, here, a colleague I don't know, who? Who? You tell me, fellow Shuker, when you're alone. There's no one here. Nobody cares. The SDP is a colleague here, is, is, we've had enough. So, look, we suggest, you don't listen, you don't care. Another thing again, so it's not the devil that none of our proposals are right. We are in this package of measures, I am now not going to enter into each individual, but colleagues Bernardic and Lalovac said in the introduction, this is the third package that includes citizens, citizens who are also the most socially endangered of whom the government has not considered at the moment. I'm not saying he won't think in his third package. But I don't understand why the opposition isn't involved. You say, "Here's a good suggestion, and you didn't even bother to fix it." So today we wouldn't be discussing this or counting here if Prime Minister Plenkovic's first day had called all the presidents of the opposition parliamentary parties and said, let's hear, let's all heads together, who has any suggestions. So maybe one part of our measures would be included already in the government's package and instead, and all the time you're talking here, make suggestions, thank you, but that's not enough. It's not good, but we're going alone. We only represent coalition partners. Gentlemen, this concerns the entire country, both left and right and all citizens, not just HDZ and its coalition partners. And for that, here we appeal to you, let us in, so we can't wait until you remember something, until you remember citizens with credits. Well, we had to propose a law. We don't have another model. Our representatives didn't sit with the government's representatives at the meeting so they could make some kind of suggestion there, so here you are, fellow Shuker, you complete it and you say, and you made a good proposal. Here, there's only the ones with the loans, there's no lying, there's no insurance houses, there's no such thing as that, so we could do a whole proposal together. And this is how we have to make suggestions when you don't listen to us, you don't want to hear us. You're saying it's not time for politicizing, and it's yesterday as a charger. Plenkovic, Sanader, Bozinovic, in his uniform on the fifth, 5th day in a row, calls counterpart Bernardic and SDP. That's, what's that? That's not politicizing? You've got suggestions, you've got suggestions, we'll respect everything, you don't respect anything today. You haven't accepted any of our amendments today. So what exactly are all our suggestions stupid? Well, I didn't realize it from your discussions that we're proposing nonsense or stupidity, but even praise it, but look, what, we're enough for ourselves. That's not good. We're not at war, but we're not in any ordinary condition. And not to mention, this session procedure, first in that building of INA over there, and today here and limiting replicas and speeches, I hope that from the 15th time we get back to our building things will go back to normal. I don't have any more time, but I expect we'll get back to normal and start listening to us as an opposition. Because, look, this situation will pass, I hope as soon as possible. Maybe in a month, maybe in two. Maybe in 3 and then they'll [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to file accounts. [[Intruder: Stay here.]] So it won't be binco Support, we can all the time... [[We have 3 replicas.]] Okay, thank you, here, just to finish the thought. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197788	Thank you. A colleague of Hajdukovic's. Here's the first replica, the second one's a colleague of Shucker's, then a colleague of Jagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djujic, you're talking about a call for community, this lack of respect for the opposition, so I'd just like to go over there and say that HDZ calls for consensus and for community only when it suits them. And you know how they experience that unity and consensus? "Here you can back us up." And we are not criticizing or criticizing, nor criticizing, but making concrete suggestions. Yeah, maybe some of our proposals aren't perfect, but that's why, in the debate, we should all come up with the best proposals to protect our citizens. And.../incomprehensible... when we do that to HDZ, they reject it. And therefore, I fear that these measures will eventually turn out to be flawed in a lot of things, that they will change many times, that they will contribute to the uncertainty of the labour market and the market in general in the economy and we will actually produce exactly the counterproductive effect of what we wanted, which is to protect citizens, workers, but also entrepreneurs and economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197790	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197791	Comrade Hajdukovic, of course, that all our measures are not perfect, such as the Government's all measures. But two heads are smarter than one, and that's what we've been trying to do all along to deal with this crisis, not to have the HDZ running its story. Well, look, they dropped the Parliament, that debate in the INA about that package last time was nothing, what pro-forma, out there at the President of the Parliament saying you have the right to 2 replicas per club. So they don't even want to listen to us. They won't listen to us today. So it's not going anywhere. So, we should, this is not a HDZ crisis and its coalition partners, but all of Croatia's citizens, and we must have the opportunity to talk together and all the best, every party, every political option that has in its ranks to make it easier for the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197792	Thank you. Next replica, fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197793	Thank you very much. Well, it's not good to say things that aren't right. I'll use the softest expression, if my colleague Bauk were here, he could confirm to you that the Prime Minister has summoned all these leaders and opposition parties and clubs and has exposed them to measures to discuss. So much for that, that's the facts. Secondly, I think my personal debate today was about discussing the subject. Third thing, colleague Djujic, we've known each other for a long time. I was expecting, since I'm the only MP from the opposition here, that you're going to try to put in some arguments to convince me that something is not contained in the existing laws, that I did something wrong. You've been talking all along about how someone like this, how you're somebody like that. Okay, that's what you said, that's what your colleagues will say, but explain why your laws are good, I even said that one law and missed a target because those funds can't pay off what they're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197794	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197795	And fellow Shuker, I expected you to convince us why our laws are not good and that the government did better than us and that we should give up. But on the contrary, you said that one segment did well in this moratorium law on loans, so what do I have to explain to you that this is a good move? Well, you know it better than I do, you said it yourself. In fact, you've spread the story that we haven't covered the Leasing Houses, that we haven't included insurance companies, so here's what we talked about before, we could have given one quality whole law together. And when you said we didn't sit down, that we didn't, that, uh, Comrade Bauk, here he came now, that the Prime Minister invited them to that first package of measures that the entrepreneurs and all welcomed to the knife together. This last vote we voted here today at noon you presented to coalition partners on Thursday and on Friday came to debate after a hasty procedure in HS, i.e. in the basement of the INA on 2 representatives per club. And we couldn't make a contribution, no one listened to us, no amendment was adopted, today Here, who's listening to us? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Who are we talking to?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197796	Thank you. Last replica, colleague Sagar Comrade Sagar, here you go. [[Intruder: My emotions are working.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197797	Dear colleague Djujic. So, you said it right. The situation is quite complex, and when you say that we're going back to normal, then you should keep in mind that this return will be extremely difficult. It is clear that there will be a danger to the health of citizens and that at that moment citizens will start living normally. But back to those positions that weren't good before this crisis, I'm talking about economic situations where citizens were and the economy is going to be difficult to achieve, let alone what we planned before this crisis in terms of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. So it's very important that the government listens to you now, that it really listens to all the good advice because at this point we're just responding to what's happening right now. We are not thinking about what will happen in the future, and in these measures there are many proposals that will affect the future, and so we need to think about what will be in the future because we already need to know what it is, what kind of rebalancing the government will have to propose soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197798	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197799	My debate was like this because five minutes is really little to explain and to explain each of these measures. I think some of them are making their own argument. But why was I talking about this debate? That's because I'm afraid, and I see it, that the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic don't care what we think or care about. There's one proof today. So today he's talking about this law on tracking. He talks, he says, well, you gave all the data to Facebook and Google, so why don't you give it to HDZ? Why don't you give us, too, even so they follow you, so let's follow you. And then the journalists tell them, but it wasn't adopted in the Parliament, today it's, it's a decision to go to another reading, then he says, and well, it's not today, it's going to be adopted next week. So here's how HDZ sees us as the most representative or legislative body in the country. And for that reason I appeal once again to HDZ and to the government, please include representatives of the opposition, listen to us, tell us, this is stupid, this is smart, but we are going together to look for solutions for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197800	Thank you. Next individual debate... The next individual debate is a debate by colleagues from Peja Grbina, here are some interventions. Here you go, buddy Grbin, here you go, thank you. Careful fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197801	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will concentrate on two things that matter to me personally, and I also believe that they are important to a large number of Croatian citizens, and one especially to people from the area I come from, from Istria and the entire Adriatic coast. The first thing is, of course, a moratorium on loans. Dear fellow Shuker, saying just before me, said the law proposed by the moratorium on loans was missing. My answer is, okay, but unlike the government's proposal, at least he exists. The government has not proposed such a missing proposal, the government has proposed nothing. The government has only left it to banks and bankers that, on the basis of their own decision, their own goodwill, their own profit assessment, solve the problem of postponing the loan with their debtors. And what does it look like in practice? A few people came to me, for example, one lady has a loan, she's been paying him off for a while, 3,000 kuna, exactly 2700 kn per month. She will have to pay 6,000 kuna additional interest for the six-month delay, 6,000 kuna. 1,000 kunas have calculated the monthly bank's interest. A gentleman contacted me last year who took a loan, also at war about 3,000 kuna per month, but because he took the loan last year at this point mostly pays interest, and the principal will come in line for some better days. He will postpone by 18,000 kuna for the six months he would have paid during that period of 6 months, so to get a delay in the payment of 18,000 kuna which he will definitely have to pay, to him, the interest for those 6 months exceeds the amount of 12,000 kuna. 12,000 kuna additional interest will be paid to the bank on his loan. And you know what the worst part of it still has to be solemnized by the credit contract annex, and as an amount of course, it will account for the full amount of credit, which means that it will still have 1,500 – 2,000 kuna. So he's going to be spending six months on 15 thousand kunas. For a delay in payment of 18,000 kuna, they will pay 15,000 kuna. With all due respect, it's neither moral nor fair, nor useful. The delay, without the simultaneous delay of payment of interest or the release of interest payments, is not intended. It is only temporary assistance to citizens and citizens who will pay you the same citizens and citizens extremely expensive one day when they start returning credit. And what else is going to happen? Given the duration of only 6 months, and it is evident that many will not return to the position of paying off the loan even longer after that since it only lasts 6 months it does not achieve real effects. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, if you want to help Croatian citizens and citizens, Croatian society and the Croatian economy you do not have to accept the SDP proposal, I support what my colleague Schuker said, make it comprehensive, refer it to the procedure, I will first, I will raise my hand to him first, but you must, you must suspend the course of interest during the delay, otherwise there is no purpose. The other problem I want to talk about is the renter's problem. Household owners do not pay income tax according to actual income, but pay it according to the flat-rate rate determined according to the number of bearings in the frameworks of the prescribed law. Last year we raised the amount of sheets, we made it possible for local self-government units to go up to 1,500 kuna instead of a maximum of 300 kuna earlier, I'm talking about income tax rate, to make it quite clear. So we increased the amount multiplely and it was introduced to pay for additional beds, which was not previously the case. At present, as far as I'm aware, most or almost all of the shoppers have been delayed. However, it is quite clear, it is clear that income from the tourist season in these three months, so 4, 5 and 6, and probably not even afterwards. The delay is fine for now, but please, before the period on which the delay is given, bring a measure of the write-off of the flat-rate income tax from the tenant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197802	Thank you. Stay here please, you have one replica. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197803	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, I had to intervene because my colleague Peja is a lawyer, and I wouldn't want to give him a lecture, but when you have a loan, then you get a payment plan. In the payment plan you have a monthly war that contains war and contains interest and a bank if you do not need to pay the principal, but you have to pay the corresponding part of the interest and that is what we all need to talk about why I said it wasn't just loans to Croatian citizens and businessmen that it has full, but such a figure when you bring it out it's totally incorrect because you're not talking about the same thing, it's not interest on funds that haven't been paid for 3 months. I repeat, when you raise a loan, when you enter a Leasing relationship or anything else you get a payment plan and it is clearly based on the law you know what it contains. So this information of yours is not correct, you got it wrong, and you unfortunately misread it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197804	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My esteemed colleague Shuker didn't get it from me, it was obtained by citizens from banks asking for a postponement of the loan. It was given to the citizens of the banks, the citizens got this bill, and the banks want to charge them for it. And by the way, I know very well that there's interest on the capital. If the loan payment started last year, then you and I know very well that the principal remained intact. And that six months of paying interest on that principal will be very difficult for whoever's taking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197806	Stay still here was still a replica of a fellow Laloveca.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197807	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms I see you mentioned the tenants, but certainly what should be noted is that the government has unfortunately not thought about those who are in the lease of business premises, which are now closed business spaces and when there is no, means the contract between the tenant and the tenant is now zero kuna. However, there is no clear answer from the tax administration or the Government whether they will be charged at market value for this lease, so all these people who rent business premises will receive a fee for either VAT or income tax. So here you're talking about one category, but I think this category, too, means that they're renting business premises so that in 3 or 6 months, VAT or income taxes don't come out, especially when the market doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197808	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague, but first of all, he would direct his own representatives to the government. Last week I spoke about the problem of renting a business space and there are two problems. The first is the one you addressed, which is the fact that many tenants have freed their tenants from the rent because they are aware that they need good, good people. At the same time, however, regardless of the amount not paid by the lease, the tax administration accounts for the value added tax, but also the income tax or profit tax, and that by assessment. It's not right, and I think the ministry should address it in the relevant tax laws. However, there is another problem, and I ask you to transfer this to the Minister of State Property, which is the problem that there is no possibility in the Law on the Hire of Business Space that there is no possibility that, any state, any local self-government of freedom of the tenants from the obligation to pay or to reduce that obligation. So... We have to change that law, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197810	Thank you. Comrade Matteljan, here you go, no need for intervention, colleague Grbin didn't touch the work space, but fine, if you want then... Well, fellow Mattelian, Mathelan. Damir Mateljan, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Secretary of State. The SDP shows itself in this crisis situation, acts as a responsible and serious party. On the one hand, this is affirmative, so we have accepted in two rounds a package of measures that the Government has sent to debate in this House, which concerns helping those who are at risk of spreading the COVID-19 virus. On the other hand, we're bringing, we're proposing our own measures that unfortunately come across something like this. So, uh, the government's self-interest, the self-interest of ruling MPs actually tells us what the government thinks about these measures, or what they think about the SDP and what they feel unfortunately about the opposition. The government when it also adopted that first set of measures, including the law that we had not debated, is the Civil Protection Act, saying, so on these measures, the Government has also urged the local state to also plant its financial backs and that it is also the local state that will adapt some of its measures to help all those, whether they are citizens or those companies that have died in this crisis. The local state has also done so in a way that it could, freeing the municipal fee, the communal contribution itself, paying the market price of kindergarten so that they can survive, however, what the government did not say, what is in some way not being said, and in this House I have not heard, let alone in the media, and that is that it is, in fact, with those first and other measures that the local state has just planted its back for reasons, because that financial burden on those measures that go as free entrepreneurs is just directed at the only tax, on the only real tax which is exclusively a tax belonging to local self-government, which is income tax. Without income tax, which accounts for almost 70% of all original incomes from local self-government, local self-government can survive this month to two days. Those who are with... Which so far seemed to us to be highly developed areas, won't last a month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is very important to tell people that this one will not have preschool education, that their infrastructure local will be able to disintegrate, that there will be no public lighting, that there will be no public transport, or people need to tell, that these measures will partially save the economy and that they will completely destroy the level of local self-government that we have achieved so far. It will simply be so if we don't come up with compensatory measures that no one talks about, and I understand why no one talks about compensatory measures because there is no money for compensation measures. So when we talk about planting the backs of local self-government, then there are things that don't have just financial weight, but also that organisational weight. The famous name around the pass. Finally, the public and the government have realized that there are over 300 units of local self-government that are simply not functionally whole and cannot function in a way that in that unit local self-government citizens can achieve both rights and all their therefore things they must do, such as, the most banal going to the bank, to the post office, to the pharmacy because you have municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have no banks, no post office, no pharmacy, no elementary school or anything else. And this depends not only on their size or their critical mass, but on their capacitation, both to people and to their financial capacitation. I don't know how much time I have left, so I'm going to figure it out. So usually after all these crises we like to go out with that sentence that's total flossula, which is, we're going to come out of this crisis even stronger and stronger. [[/Intruder: 15.]] We won't. So we'll get out of this crisis weaker and worse. But I hope at least So wiser that what concerns [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The local self-government will go into this reform of the local self-government reform. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197812	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Gordan Maras, colleague Maras, come in. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. I must admit that, I have, I feel strange in this hall and all this together when a man looks at you a little bit sorry and people who work here in the organization and people from HRT because you have a feeling that this is being done as a tower at the moment of the whole situation, or the system of decision-making in the Republic of Croatia, where we, as the Croatian Parliament, are moving from the hall to the hall from Šubićeva to INU, might now be able to go to another hall, in another town, I think that the institution as a Croatian Parliament must participate more and decide in the whole crisis that is happening in the Republic. So, if as a state we do not respect our institutions, if we have a meeting president who here says that the Rules of Procedure are 100% non-respectable, I think it is one of the most recent statements I have heard in the Croatian Parliament or on the other hand says about 129 votes, it sends you a message in fact that the Croatian Parliament as an institution at the moment seems to bother the HDZ, which is also seen from the overall behaviour, work, and at the end of the day and the situation which is now the government in this Chamber, where there is usually no one else. And on the other hand, discussing such important issues in these circumstances sounds pointless, because you see that you're proposing things, very serious things. Because when you propose that citizens do not pay for a year, they have a moratorium on loans it is a very serious thing for Croatian citizens, perhaps of crucial importance to survive the next year, which will be marked by crisis, loss of work, loss of income from tourism and all that is, then I think that such a topic is shown respect for both Croatian citizens and parliament to discuss under normal conditions in front of parliamentary representatives that this topic is accepted with respect and that we eventually come together to a certain solution. Because if the opposition supports the government's measures, so what is not logical is that instead of Vice-President Sanader giving lessons to opposition deputies he takes into account what the opposition is proposing. And the other thing when we suggest also one measure, means that when it comes to parents who at the moment have a problem with organising their lives in general how to educate children, how to stay at home, how to go to work, how to combine it all together, you can't use it in the most part of the grandparents' cases because if parents do, they're exposed, so they can pass on to their children, and then their parents can't look after their children because they can get infected too, so they're huge problems. And if, at that point, we suggest that we take a model by which one parent can stay at home and pay for sick leave, as the Health Insurance Act covers some other examples, so that's a very important topic. It deserves to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, it deserves to be heard, it deserves to be considered and perhaps accepted. We can't accept the situation where the secretary of state comes and says he's not authorized to talk about it here because like he's not the finance minister or not the prime minister, they're the only ones who can. Well, we don't live in a monarchy, where one person decides what can be done, what can't be done. Although it looks like some of them are just fine with you. We live in a parliamentary democracy where parliament plays its part and I am dissatisfied with how it all works now, and I must admit that I will talk about it in the future and when we return to the Hall of the Croatian Parliament and appeal here and to the people sitting in the presidency of the assembly, and I will certainly speak to the representative of our club to simply not allow such a situation. So we live in parliamentary democracy, we're responsible people, we can contribute to this situation as painlessly as possible for our fellow citizens. We don't agree with the statements he made before Mr. Pernar I think that this time we're fighting a crisis is good, that we're all satisfied that we have very few infected and deceased in relation to other countries and we support it and we will continue to support it if it works in a quality way and on the other hand if we can participate We want to participate, we want to enable solutions that will help Croatian citizens to get through this crisis as well as we can and the more painlessly we can not do anything to get Croatian citizens to live normally as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197814	Stay here, please. We have two replicas. He's my first colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197815	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I also think that measures and what the government is doing at this point are good and that it gives good results, and we, with our SDP, as a constructive opposition with our proposals just want it to be better, especially with this third package of measures. We are thinking about the time that comes after this health crisis, meaning in a few months, because we, with our package of measures, have included exactly those citizens that the Government has not included in its activities so far. And that's why I think we should maybe listen a little bit more. And as for the functioning and work of the assembly, I agree with you and I will talk about it all the time and keep warning about it and I want once again here to underline the line that these 15 days, 20 as far as we're not in the building of the Croatian Parliament, but in the basement of the INE there are no days we joined in the order that we have the same rules. So, not to disrespect the Rules of Procedure, but there are no agreements, because today it's worth one thing, tomorrow it's worth something else, then the day after tomorrow it's worth the third, then one chairman respects one rule, the other, and that's not good. We have a Rules of Procedure which is a sacred letter to us in all situations, if anything needs to be changed, then we need to change the Rules of Procedure and we all need to adapt to that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197816	Okay, thank you, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197817	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. I think that if we function as a rule or not, by 100% of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djujic has taken 1% of the time limit on the replica, so anyone can choose for themselves if the rules don't apply to everyone. And on this side, I ask you to pass it on to the President of the Croatian Parliament that we want to function normally and that all of this together is quite nothing and that in some way Croatian citizens deserve to do it in some normal conditions, to transfer their problems, to try to solve their problems and to contribute together to this crisis as soon as possible and to allow Croatian citizens to have confidence in the institutions that represent them. The message that none sits here except Mr. Shucker of HDZ MPs is a message that automatically denys the call on joint action by HDZ [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely visible from what's going on here. [[Intruder: Next replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.]] So... HDZ with a figure in its pocket calls all opposition parties... [[/Intruder: Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197818	Comrade Maras, please. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I absolutely agree with you in your qualifications that parliament should behave in crisis situations. For example, the Hungarians had a very good solution before this happened, namely that Orban received such broad powers. According to their Constitution, in the event of an emergency, parliament is constantly sitting, no one can disband it and every 15 days the government should submit a report to Parliament which, on the basis of this report, then extends or reduces, or extends the state of emergency. The role of Parliament here should be crucial precisely because of what we talked about. Some measures are imperfect and just in the discussion with more ideas and from multiple sides and more angles, we can come up with quality solutions. One of these is the staying of one parent at home and because of small children and because of the risk of transmission of infections, so we also protect the health of the population, protect jobs because the state jumps in where it can and we try to help as much as possible. Our citizens to adapt to the new creation [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a situation. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Hajdukovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197820	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197821	Thank you. I absolutely agree with you, and I think that in this situation the most we could do is help us, given that hundreds of citizens who share their problems with us every day are talking to us. But I ask you, if we are calling for joint action and unity, where is Jandrokovic now? Where's Branko Bacic? Where are all these HDZ people who need to discuss with us the proposals that help Croatian citizens? Di, where's Ante Sanader who called the opposition SDP yesterday if he hadn't suggested anything constructive? Where are these people, why aren't they taking part here with us in this debate? Why don't they say if our proposal is good or bad? Can it or cannot it be applied? Which is why it does not allow Croatian citizens to go peacefully to Easter and not think about paying off their loans and not leave them at the mercy of their banks. Believe me, if we don't set the rules the way To be for all [[Intruder: Time.]] identically, that people know transparently what their right is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Which is what it isn't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Banks will do so in his arrangement. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] I think that It's not correct and yes [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] We should put it that way. [[Intruder: Comrade Hajdukovic, please prepare for discussion.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197822	Thank you. Please, intervention, colleague Hajdukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Here you are Mr. Hajdukovic, please, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. Here you are, colleague Hajdukovic.]] Well, unfortunately, this crisis has shown how unprepared we are for these situations in every sense. In economics, I would dare say politically, which, we are witnessing right now, organisational, logistics, social, etc., etc. Let's just take the farm. This crisis has shown our agricultural production on its knees, which is simply a victim of many years of bad policy, poor direction, non-strategic thinking. That's right, so unfortunately we're victims and in a political sense because we don't have enough culture politically to listen to everything, all the suggestions, all the problems on the table and try to deal with these problems together. I fear that HDZ's unity is only, that is, their calls for unity are only when it suits them and that their perception of community and consensus is based on "that is what you can support us, we allow you to support us". But it's not the point, it's not the purpose of parliamentary democracy. Just because there are more of us from different parts of Croatia, from different segments of life in Croatia, we can give better suggestions, we can warn of some of the problems that perhaps the Government or we as legislators have initially missed and may warn of some things that may later have serious repercusions. One of them is definitely paying off citizens' loans. Why? Many were financially planning differently, things that are unfortunately very difficult, since this epidemic, I read in one medium that about a thousand people get fired daily. If that's true, it's a terrible piece of information. In the meantime, there was also an earthquake in Zagreb, so many families in Zagreb are exposed to an additional unplanned cost of housing adaptation, if they were lucky that their apartments were still useful. For all these people, the postponement of payments, or the moratorium on the payment of loans per year, will mean little space for, to catch air, to be financially consolidated and to continue to pay their commitments. Without that beginning, I'm afraid it'll be very difficult for them, that many won't be able to repay their debts, many will lose their jobs in the meantime, we don't know how further the pandemic situation will move, as far as the economy is concerned, so we're trying to solve this equation with all the unknowns so that at least one acquaintance can be introduced into it. Also, no one has mentioned seasonal employees except for our measures so far, the 3rd package of measures. Or permanent, so-called. Permanent season. There are slightly less than 6 thousand in Croatia. These are people who, during the season, make about 6 to 7 months enough to survive the whole year and thus service their debts and all the other financial obligations they have. Since nothing's happened since the season, we need to think about protecting these exactly, slightly less than 6,000 people. If we're counting on it to be 6,000 families, then you can imagine how much repercussion could be if we don't adequately protect them. Also, people who have been fired as a consequence of the crown will be a major problem or we need to help them and take care of them, help them to stop their feet and serve them in their short - term financial obligations if God gives them no credit. Also, no one mentions employees who are at the Bureau who have no compensation. What's the number of people like that? So they have no right to any compensation for various reasons, which now because of a crisis that will become and grow into an economic crisis have no right and have no perspective of finding a job soon. It's the same segment of people we have to worry about and who we have to help. Therefore, as I have said, our measures may not be perfect, neither are the government's measures, but I believe that with one different approach, in a broader dialogue and in a dialogue with more respect, above all, from the ruling to the opposition, there would be much more quality proposals. Because I am afraid that these government proposals will need to be corrected more than once, that they will be subject to quite frequent changes and that this will create additional uncertainty among citizens but also in the economy because of the constant changes in market conditions, whether labour, whether the economy, or markets in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197824	Please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197825	My colleague Hajdukovic and I, with this proposal, are essentially concerned about citizens who have not yet felt this crisis. So, you said yourself when this health problem goes down for, we hope as soon as possible that a part of the people except for those who are unemployed and who live on the edge of poverty and those who stood up to yesterday will feel this crisis very well. And now let's say I set an example, today at the 2nd month of this year the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was about 6,500 kuna, I'm going to stick to those figures. So someone who had 6,500 kuna before this pandemic, took out a loan, planned his own life, got hit by this situation, and, say, most employers put these workers on a minimum or these 4,000 kuna due to government measures. So these workers lost 2,000, 2,500 kuna, and they'll only feel that later. This moratorium on loans means a lot to them, and it makes the situation much easier because other than preserving jobs, we encourage and spending citizens right now. in this way that these funds can be spent. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197826	Thank you, colleague Giujic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197827	I agree, fellow Djujic, that the crisis will end today, the consequences will be great and long-term. So we can't predict how many more people will lose their jobs, unfortunately, how much pay cuts, purchasing power, if it comes to question and swearing courses, it's also going to be a big problem. So there's a lot of problems waiting for us. But the same thing that's important for us to point out when we talk about our moratorium law, I think it's that those who have a good financial situation don't have to use this law. So those who have regular incomes, which will continue to have regular incomes, can choose to continue to service their debts to banks. That way, they won't be cut off as far as the payment plan or the end of their commitment to the bank is concerned, as they planned, but unfortunately I'm afraid they'll be in your minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197828	Thank you. I would like a little intervention and an individual debate from colleague Karolina Leaković. Here you go. Last reported debate, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, if we are in a crisis without precedent, and we are in the midst of the worst yet to come, and then, at least economically, then from the government and the political and economic elite as residents, it is certain that we have the right to expect solutions that will benefit the largest number of people. And these people who live on their work, not on capital, not on rent, not on inheritance, not on the accumulated, but on people, and these are the ones that live in Croatia the most, in fact, on their fair salary regardless of whether it is earned in trade, in the food industry, in transport, in services, in schools, in the hospital or in the office. If we work indefinitely on a particular one, then our contracts are extended every, every few months, maybe not always in accordance with the law, and we know that there are such situations too. He knew that the government declaredly insists on community, it's not a new word discovered, but it seems to me that for this government, a new word has been discovered, or one that is very often in the use of last weeks of solidarity. We're saying that the health crisis, or the government, is saying that we need to overcome the health crisis with common forces, appeal to the responsibility of each and every one of us, and I can certainly agree with that and I can support it. Of course, if we are not deprived of human rights in this government’s once unnecessarily restrictive decisions and, of course, if we are not deliberately deceived and tried to hide some information. We know that we have recently had such a case with the purchase of medical equipment, and we have had one case with a secret meeting in the government between the prime minister, the culture minister and the editor-in-chief of several media houses on which, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not want to present details and did not answer any questions about the meeting. The public and journalists must never, nor in this situation, remain deprived of the answers to questions about how decisions are made, why the main editors of some media houses were invited to a meeting in the government and what they were promised, to report on government measures that they would receive in return. So, unlike this solidarity when it comes to the health crisis and the epidemiological measures, when it comes to economics, I think it's hard to agree that we're all on the same boat, that it's the same for all of us, that the crisis on all of us is the same, that we all have to tighten the belt, that either we're all gonna challenge and save private entrepreneurs and their property, or we're all going to fail, and that it's not the time to question each other, and it's especially not the time to insist on working rights, on collective contracts, on collective agreements, on coefficients, says cut yourself immediately and now without any renunciation, etc., in other words socialize or share private losses, and we don't touch private profits. It has already been said today on several occasions that we have not seen how the banks have reacted in this crisis whether they have submitted part of the burden. They did not bear part of the burden, however, we saw that the owners of private companies better sent their workers and most of their workers to the stock market immediately, although perhaps they should not have done so. If we ever find out, so what is the number of those who immediately sent workers to the stock market and before measures, we will, of course, ask the Ministry of Labour and HZZ. We know there's no write-off for citizens, no lifting unnecessary banking obligations, no abandonment of performances, no appraisals. We still haven't actually made a decision about parents who care for children who don't go to school and kindergarten to determine what SDP is looking for today. We also did not make a decision that even now unemployed who have worked less than 9 months in the past 24 months have the right to compensation, this should certainly be taken into account. And there are a lot of problems that people warn us about, so I will take advantage of the opportunity with us of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health to warn him of a letter of 17 March which she sent to the Ministry, directed the Croatian Association for Rare Diseases, which warns of a special situation involving employees who are at the same time patients with autoimmune diseases, parents of chronically ill children who raise their voices and warn that they have to work, and they are very exposed to the group, so I call on the ministry to take care of their health. Ideas for the State to be a cornerstone of economic policy, economic activity to use this crisis to change the dominant political economic paradigm, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, we have yet to hear and I appeal in this regard. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197830	Thank you. And my last debate with my colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last few weeks a paradigm of relations with state institutions has changed. The rule so far is to say so to the public or most citizens in some vague situation between institutions and individuals as a rule stood aside from individuals. And lately, in this vague situation between individuals and institutions, they tend to side with the institution especially if it's the police about healthcare professionals or about someone from these now we call it the more popular service represented by the state. It is good when institutions gain greater trust from citizens, but it is never good to give non-critical trust to anyone, to either individual or to institutions. Therefore, they should always be questioned and treated critically. One of the equative examples was the police's conduct in the case of two citizens in Split who wanted to take a walk, and then there was, I would say training, unnecessary training of strictness against individuals, and there was a journalist there and it became generally known. We have then a reverse case, so in front of a church also in Split police showed much more tolerance, patience towards a priest who invited people to mass, and when the officers came to warn them that it was a violation of the headquarters's recommendations then he fell into an argument with a policeman that a police officer had finally had to interpret something from a religion, it was perhaps excessive tolerance, but somewhere between this situation the increased power of the institution I would say in relation to the rights of the individual should find a good balance. This is why it is good for us to talk about this in the Croatian Parliament live at the thematic session of the Committee on Human Rights. So, on one portal came an article about what all citizens ask the attorney general, I wouldn't say that it was an explanation of litigation with state institutions, it was really about certain individual problems of life that people came across because of this epidemic and the rapid ones, but when the measures were faster then they weren't enough, there wasn't enough thought about possible side effects that I believe had time to think about them further to be avoided. What do all the citizens actually write to the D.A.? So most often it's about people who got fired, and for various reasons they can't exercise their rights as unemployed people. Then it is about students who, because of their inability to work during the epidemic, cannot be supported and asked the competent authorities to assist students in the form of a delay in the payment of tuition. Afterwards, citizens have problems communicating with HZZ, and related to the exercise of the right for the unemployed. Most often they fail to obtain feedback on who is processing or their demands and fail to exercise rights. They are particularly numerous citizens who have jobs but who fail to work because of their obligations to young children in circumstances where kindergartens and schools are closed, then they do not know how to take care of children when they have to work again because of the end of their vacation and sick leave, then they state that despite their open-label care, employers call them to return to work, then others report that the employer determines 7-day work without rest despite the care of underage children, and then ask that the employer asks them to work even though he has not provided them with protections such as masks and gloves, then the worker reported whose employer requests to come to work personally even though he does not live in a city where he works and depends on public transportation and can't de facto come. The employers are also reporting. And that's to say, someone hired two seasons, but now he doesn't know what to do with them and their compensation, and in the end we have cases because of these passes, so he can't worry, come to visit a child living in another municipality, and he doesn't get a pass. Retired people who can't go to a bank, to a pharmacy, etc., or to a post office to raise a pension because they don't have a post office. And all these problems, I'm here, as long as I have time to count, require reaction, require reaction. an institution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197832	First, it's Mrs. Crescent. Buric, she can have an intervention at any moment, please, then colleague Schuker. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197833	Thank you. Thank you so much, Vice President HS. So, very briefly. We are here today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 5 state secretaries from 5 different ministries, now the two of us have delivered an oral opinion on the SDP package and by the fact that we were 5 out of 5 different ministries, I think it's a very clear message of respect for the promoter and I'm not saying it at all that I would be pathetic but very honest and open. Health is not everything, however, all without health is absolutely nothing and it is a saying that is more than ever proved true today. What I am also glad is that today most are in a direct or indirect way, regardless of what political groups came from, that parliamentary representatives and MPs have said that this double crisis that we are facing is strategically well-led and that we have good governance. Moreover, this is what we are talking about today, which is a package of measures, which, which is unlegislative, this government, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, has provided only so far 65 billion kuna and what I must mention, is that it is neither the first nor the last package of measures. You know that yourself. - Mrs. Crescent. Leakovic asked a question about people who had lost their jobs in this crisis, and that is why we are talking about the number of about 13,000 people, newly unemployed, which is why the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, or the executive body of the Croatian Employment Service yesterday, included in the criteria for obtaining support for the preservation of jobs, the possibility that employers who report to this support should these people return to work, that they can get that support for them too, so we are talking about support from 4 thousand kuna. There he is. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197834	Stay, you have one more replica, please. Thank you very much. [[- Yeah, good.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk. [[Intruder: Please.]] Thank you. So then, no, no, wait, wait, there's another line, don't leave yet, there's a colleague named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197835	Thank you. State Secretary. It's a good-looking jump, "Health isn't everything, but without health, we're nothing." Did I quote correctly? [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] The saying, it's more to me, it's to be honest, it's more to me to jump. [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] But health protection can't be a front for anything to be done. You can't do everything. So, you need to balance between health, among other segments of life, and you know what our Constitution says, what's everything? Thus, even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the state, the right to life, to ban torture, cruel and humiliating treatment and punishment, thoughts, freedom of mind, conscience, and religion cannot be limited. That's all. So, I agree on the importance of what you've said, but I'm not in favour of such rhetoric justifying possible restrictions on everything and everything for health, but I like the saying, now it's not, it's good, but it's not good for political game. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197836	Here, answer, secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197837	Thank you, Honorable Representative Bauk. So I repeat again. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to preserve health, protect health, on the other hand, preserve jobs, stand behind all Croatian entrepreneurs and workers and try and help and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197838	Thank you, too. Now my colleague Schuker is on behalf of the MPs' club final. I'm just asking for my colleagues' intervention. Thank you. How? I don't doubt you, just what I'm stressing. Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197839	Thank you very much. Well, I answered about three things. The first was once in the Croatian Parliament to have mutual respect among MPs and respect for what the MPs wanted to say. Unfortunately, however, those who spoke most today about how there are no MPs in the Assembly, now there are none in the assembly. There are four of us left. The other thing I wanted to say, I'm honest, but really this is what I tell you out of the soul, after all, and my debate was like this, I expected that colleagues from the SDP who have been reported for discussion each by one or two laws will try to explain the legal proposals to us, and with this, a couple of colleagues who have mentioned certain things, we haven't heard anything. We heard attacks on the government. This is what the Government likes, so eventually on the President of the Parliament, on this, on that, etc., I think today was a debate to fight, not to conflict, to oppose opinions and to think about how to solve this crisis. And lastly, yesterday, I just got this information, the EU Commission confirmed HBOR's portfolio loan scheme for liquidity, so much so that I'm going to mention again and apostrophe my colleague Lalovec, the two of us, no matter what we're from different clubs, are saying that at this point we need to secure funds from all possible sources, and this is just another confirmation that the government is working on all fronts. Some things can be spoken publicly, and some things can be spoken of only when they happen. It is a good thing that anyone who has any knowledge of professional everyday life as a proposal in the Croatian Parliament, but look at colleagues and colleagues, maximum respect and according to this institution was that the colleagues from the club who proposed this legislative proposal would be more present in this debate, it would simply point to the seriousness of this proposal, this is not reading any lesson, but when you give the political rival a chance for creamworth then it would be a shame not to take advantage of it. And how seriously you think about these suggestions of yours is best shown by those who spoke of them, I say honor with exceptions, and these exceptions remain now and in the assembly, the best shows how many people are left in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197840	Thank you, too. My colleague Bauk, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is final, and I apologize on behalf of the Proposer, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Proposer 10, 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197841	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Shuker, Honored Representative Hajdukovic, Honored representative Leakovic, the esteemed vice president, then what you should welcome yourself to, I thank you. So, first of all, the SDP Club didn't choose the time of the debate, we got it this afternoon, we could discuss it tomorrow morning, it might end something more, it might be a little more media attention, but the debate is in line with 90% of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, these 10% of what the president of the day said to adapt it to the situation. We think it was our responsibility to propose a package of measures to help citizens in the first place because some of these proposals can happen in a very similar way from the government in the next month, it can happen. Well, then we'll have what you just said about creamworth, and we'll be able to say we told you or we suggested. And I don't see that that's some big problem, it's a political competition in these circumstances of the epidemic. So when a normal boxing situation without gloves is put on a little thicker gloves and watch every word, and sometimes some of our colleagues still fail to resist calling to cross that fine line between this constructive community that we witness and regular situations. So I would, however, be encouraged by criticism from fellow Shucker once again, briefly said what our proposals were, so 10 measures to help citizens affected by the pandemic. First fee of at least 4,000 kuna per month in the next 3 months for unemployed people who were fired. Then a fee of half a minimum salary per month or 1,625 kuna for the unemployed on the stock market and do not receive any compensation. Permanent seasons fee at a minimum salary of 3,250 kuna per month, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for social assistance users, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for pensioners with small pensions as well as for all persons below the income censorship, a cancellation of the RTV subscription for pensioners with small pensions and social assistance users. Subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna per month for renting the apartment for all of the most affected groups. Terminate the execution and increase the amount of wages exempt from the performance, issue of bank cards for blocked citizens for the on-line transaction, abolishing charges on-line transaction as in crisis conditions no physical contact. I don't think I've even listed all these suggestions. I believe that we will also get a written statement from the government before voting on our proposals, so that, since they have been proposed last week, and I can know the work and functioning of the government agree that maybe there was not enough time to get the government's written statement, but until the vote, since we now have a week's break, we can really get the government's written statement on our bill proposals, too, so that the foundation of them and the foundation of the government's work in the future would allow us to see how much these arguments have been justified, and how much they were merely the fruit of us proposing something without the government's proposal. It's the same thing in political life that's possible. I also believe that the assembly will find time to discuss perhaps in a united debate, such as today, proposals from other promoters, not only the SDP Club, but also other proposings, and that we will have to decide whether we are still in this situation in the constructive community as it is said, but it is not a good way not to accept any proposal, or any amendment of the opposition. Then indeed, as counterpart Maras said, we may be serving as a tower, and at the same time the bodies that make decisions are especially spared, excluded from criticism, the Maltas do not welcome any criticism against them on the knife as if they were protected from criticism or as if I were going to say it without a problem, holy cows, so there are no sacred cows in democracy. But what matters is that their decisions should be implemented and respected, but it is allowed and desirable if they are not good critics because they have also created certain problems for citizens who may still be less than the problems that have been spared by the citizens, for example, I think most of all about preventing the spread of the infection. I thank again everyone who participated, thank the state secretaries from all five ministries, especially my colleague Buric and colleagues from the health ministry who was Plazonic, where he was a representative in the previous assembly of the parliament, but I was afraid not to make a mistake, who remained until the end and representatives, especially colleagues Suker who stayed until the end. I hope that, on our return to the Croatian Parliament, we will continue with the normal dynamics of the debate, that the Parliament will remain a place of control of the government and to prevent the arbitrary conduct of a body that is not good when they have no control and that I believe that other colleagues, whether they are from a position or opposition, will contribute. So, I think that in Croatia, we have long fought for democracy so that only so democratic institutions would now deprive their constitutional powers. Some laws could be passed today by agreement and by a two-thirds majority, but the Constitutional Court will then discuss it well, and for everything else we see next week in the new debate, in the new confrontations of opinions, I believe in new constructive decisions that citizens will be able to cope with this crisis as easily as possible. It will be easy if this lasts for two months, but if it lasts longer then the end of the epidemic will sooner be declared by the Minister of Finance than the Minister of Health because suddenly our alternative will die from hunger or from the crown of the virus becoming a general alternative. Therefore, we can endure for some time, but we also need to think about the scenarios of how to live in co-existence with the coronary virus with the least consequences for society, for citizens, for the economy and for the way we're used to living until the middle of the 3rd month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197842	Thank you. That concludes the debate on a set of ten laws, we'll vote on them when the conditions are met. Another information for counterpart Leaković, a colleague of Hajdukovic, a colleague of Shuker and a colleague of Bauk, the work of the Parliament continues on Wednesday 15th April at 9.30 p.m. on Mark's square with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Coastal Research Security, Carbon Exploitation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 821. Thank you very much and the secretary of state for being here. I wish everyone a happy Easter. Goodbye. SESSION DISCONTINUED
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197843	Now we're moving on to a set of SDP laws we discussed last week. Final draft law supplementing the Law on Contributions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 887, the applicant is the SDP Representatives' Club, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Law on Contributions, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the legislative proposal has not received a sufficient number of votes and I find that the law has not been passed. 38 was for, 2 abstentions and 75 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197844	Let's move on to the agenda. We have already agreed to conduct a joint discussion on the set of 6 laws proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club and one joint SDP representative's club and representative Goran Aleksic's team, and on three proposals for a conclusion submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, these are: - Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the Law on Contribution, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal for the Act on the Law on Obligors, First and Second Amendments, - Final Proposal for the Law on the Complementary of the Law on the Morals, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal of the Law on Obligations, the Emergency Act on the Taxes, the Second Amendments of the Act, the Second Amendments, the Second Amendment of the Act, the Act on the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Protection of the Act, the Law on the Act, the Second Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Rec, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Protection of the Law on the First, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the First, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law on the Law of the First, the First, the Law on the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the First, the Law on the Law on the Law, the Law of the Law, the Law, the Law, the Law of the First Act, the Law, on the Law on the Law of the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law, the Law, the First Act, the Law, the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on the Working of the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice. The government didn't deliver an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197845	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning, we warned a month and a half ago about the effects of the crisis caused by the coronary virus. Three weeks ago, we went out with our first package with more than 15 measures to help citizens and preserve jobs. Our measures were not then adopted by the government. Since the first government measures that followed only by our measures were too focused on prolongation, on delays, and they were not enough help for entrepreneurs, nor their employees, and time was leaking, the SDP sent our second package of more than 10 laws to save the economy and jobs, which we are unfortunately considering today. The second package comes today after voting on the government's package, shows in fact only demeaning and opposition, but also citizens, especially those citizens who have lost their jobs in the last two weeks due to late government reactions, over 20,000 of them as well as those citizens who at this point fear losing their jobs. Further demeaning comes precisely because the government was not even ready to manifest itself on this proposal. This only shows the relationship that currently exists in Croatia with all those who are trying to constructively help their proposals the poorest, most endangered, unemployed and other most vulnerable groups of citizens who are going through a severe crisis in Croatia thanks to the coronary virus. It is precisely because of a late reaction from the Government that the SDP proposed in the second package a write-off, not just a postponement of taxes and contributions, and we have suggested that we exempt the payment of profit tax for all entrepreneurs because this is not a time in which they can simply or should credit the state. Secondly, we have proposed the release from the payment of the flat-rate tax for craftsmen and small tenants due to special circumstances because they are closed due to the decision of the headquarters and we have proposed to write down 100% of the contributions for salaries to employees during the duration of the crisis simply so that they can help these people because they are closed by the decision of the headquarters due to the crown of the virus. After a very high public pressure, after we had pushed in the SDP for the past three weeks, offered to the Croatian public, and also to the Croatian government to help solve these problems in trying to preserve jobs, after pushing them to move faster, to simply do more in the direction of protection and employers, but also jobs, only one step was taken to help the economy. Therefore, the proposals for a write-down of taxes and contributions were accepted. But now you need at this specific moment of help right now to the citizens, to do what is not done. Help those most vulnerable, workers, but also unemployed, parents who stay with children at home, but also those workers who stay at home alone in self-insulation, as well as those on the first line of defense against the epidemic. Therefore, the SDP continues to insist on its second package of laws to help preserve jobs and therefore we still feel that our proposals are needed at this point. It is necessary to increase the basis for compensation for self-insulation workers to the average salary level because this fee of 2100 kuna is simply too small for a man's life. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide paid leave to at least one parent who spends time at home with his child under 12 years of age, especially since in this situation the parent is particularly affected at work. It is also necessary to increase the amount of non-taxable payments to help employers in particularly sensitive activities in the root of the crisis to reward their workers, especially those now on the first line of defence against the epidemic and helping Croatian citizens not to lack anything, so that they can reward traders, so that they can reward pharmacists, drivers, workers and logistics workers, as well as security guards, those whose simple work in these difficult times has not stopped but is even more pronounced. 4. it would be responsible to enable workers who are at risk of a job due to the crisis to pay 75% of the salary, up to a maximum of 5,100 kuna, it is a small cost to the state, and it is certainly a guarantee of a much better life for those people who cannot work in these conditions. And they can't work primarily on sectors for which Croatia's GDP depends most, it's tourism and hospitality. Tourism reminds me that it accounts for over 20% of our GDP, when tourism and hospitality are at stake in the government in this segment has done absolutely nothing, practically nothing but petty cosmetic and technical changes. We recall that the SDP has proposed to abolish the obligation to pay the flat-rate tax for small tenants, we have also proposed to abolish the obligation to pay advances for artisan craftsmen and to abolish certain parafiscal duties including the flat-rate amount of tourist tax and membership fee to the tourist community during the crisis. And I remind you that we will continue to insist that VAT in tourism and catering goes to 5% especially at this time of crisis, as we today insist that VAT on food delivery goes to 0% because we believe that in these difficult times, especially in the circumstances of the crisis when people order delivery needs to act on one hand and to reduce prices, but also to reduce taxes to those who have suffered the most damages due to the crisis, and these are the caterers. At a time of crisis, we must be solid, especially us politicians who represent citizens, especially those who are most affected by this crisis and who have lost their jobs or gone to a minimum. We therefore propose that for the next three months, parliamentary representatives and other state officials, other than those on the first line of defence against the virus, work for a minimumer to solidarity with a number of citizens who will be affected by this crisis, and unfortunately more and more in Croatia. 70,000 social assistance users, 240,000 blocked, more than 400,000 citizens living below the poverty threshold of 1,940 kuna, mostly part of the pensioners. In just two weeks of the crisis primarily due to a late government reaction, over 20,000 workers are jobless, another 400,000 fear for losing their jobs. For 5,500 permanent seasons and over that number as well as for more than 100,000 people registered on the stock market, and now they are not receiving any compensation for the simple prospect of employment is almost completely destroyed due to the crisis and they need help. So, it's over a million of the most vulnerable who can't pay the directors soon, can't pay the rent for the apartment, can't pay the loans. It is already clear that this crisis will take, in particular, a recovery from the crisis, so that we insist in the SDP that it is necessary to secure the moratorium on loans for a year, not just three months, and in a way that the interest is calculated in order to ensure on one hand the safety of entrepreneurs to continue their business, but in order to make them the most important thing, to ensure that citizens continue their normal lives without fear and uncertainty. It is necessary at this point to suspend and tighten interest, we have also suggested and is in this set of laws to help the economy and preserve jobs. So I want to say, in the SDP, we will continue to insist on the moratorium, on paying off loans for a year, but we will also insist on our third package of measures to help the citizens we presented the other day, which includes. First, a fee of 4,000 kuna per month in the next three months for unemployed people who were fired because of the root crisis, thanks to a late reaction from the government, a protection supplement of 750 kuna per month for all users of social assistance, etc. The minimum fee guaranteed is 70,000, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for all those who have income below the poverty threshold, so it's between 350 and 400,000 people below the threshold of 1,940 kuna per person for the most part of the pensioners, so these are pensioners with small pensions. We will insist on a fee of half the minimum wage, i.e. $1,625 per month for the unemployed currently on the stock market, who do not receive any remuneration and whose chance of employment has been completely destroyed due to the crisis, we will insist on continuing seasons at a minimum wage of 3,250 kuna per month of them 5,500, simply people have to live on something. Also, we propose to abolish the RTTV subscription precisely for these most affected layers of citizens, as well as a subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna renting the apartment for these mentioned categories, of course for people who are hired. What I would particularly like to put an emphasis on, I would like to stress that our legal proposals to be referred to in the procedure will require a suspension of the performance and an increase in the amount of pay free of charge, as well as the issue of bank cards blocked with a certain spending limit and the abolition of transactions i.e. compensation for transactions in online payments simply so that under the conditions of the crisis there will be no physical contact. We believe that these measures are very concrete, that they are implemented and that they should act quickly to help the most vulnerable groups of citizens, unemployed, pensioners, permanent seasons, social assistance users. I call on the government to consider them and to respect them as she has already complied with some of our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197846	Thank you. Continuing, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197847	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would only briefly comment on the moratorium law on the loans of debtors why it matters. In his statement, the CNB made public, i.e. according to the recommendations of the European Central Bank or the European Banking Supervisory Mechanism in Frankfurt, it said for a year that you have a framework for all business entities and citizens not to go to... claims. In other words, what does that mean? The CNB, or regulator, has already given a year to all business banks how to treat claims in their books, which means that banks already have the opportunity to do so. What does it matter? If this crisis, we all know, and we're aware that it can't end in three months, if the banks start to collect claims after three months, but now we have a liquidity problem, they'll simply suck all the money out of the system. If businesses and citizens come to them after three months, all these amounts, simply when the economy needs to be returned if they are bank priorities they will simply suck all the money out of the system if they have insurance instruments, they can charge much better from the state, they can be charged sooner than the state. And that's why it's important to calm down if we're saving the economic system now, now we're saving the economy of the Republic of Croatia. After three months, banks cannot be a priority over the state and cannot be a priority over other suppliers. And that's why it's important, and all the legal mechanisms have to be very good at controlling the whole process now. And here's why our intensity was to go with this moratorium for a year, only to those who are in liquid problems, only to those citizens who are at a minimum and only to those who are at risk, that they are simply given the opportunity to cope in that particular period of time. But what I'm warning you all the time is that it's simply our biggest fear of liquidity, liquidity or the insolvency of the system, that the system doesn't crack in the 6th month, is that we won't be able to get foreign exchanges about tourism and that simply when the economy starts to turn to make priority to suppliers and to pay bills, and only later will the banks that have the biggest capital and later come to the state that when the economy starts and collects their claims. Here's what I'd like to ask my colleague, Alexic, if that's what we agreed on for the last words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197848	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197849	I thank the SDP first of all for inviting me to propose with them the Moratorium on Loans Act, as this is my area of action since the beginning of the Croatian Parliament of the Bank, credit institutions, debts. I also note that it is very good that certain measures of force are also proposed in this third package, it will be proposed that we already proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia deblocking accounts, bans on enforcement, cards to everyone for free, free Internet banking, all this is important in these moments to enable citizens. The SNAGA party has proposed 16 measures in total, but I would now say something more about these moratories because it is the subject of exposure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has announced as one of the measures of the moratorium on the payment of the loan claim, as announced by the government of the Republic of Croatia, however, the government has not proposed a binding measure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has obviously discussed this with banks because banks have offered moratories to citizens, but these moratories include the calculation of interest, and these interest rates reach the day the moratorium ceases to operate and then they are deployed to wars or whatever bank it intends to negotiate with its debtors. It's not a moratorium. Such a moratorium of banks approve consumers, businesses, anyone and in a normal situation, therefore it is not a moratorium that must be made possible in the current crisis situation. In the current crisis situation, a moratorium must be allowed to collect claims from loans without interest and without any other charges being charged. If the moratorium lasts a year, and it should take a year, because the crisis will not stop the day the virus stops working, but the crisis will continue, because we will all be in the most citizens' problems, businesses less because they will start working, which is why the measure needs to be extended for a year. And it is easy to reduce the measure in the meantime if there is a better situation between citizens and businesses. Croatian banks can handle this measure without a problem. Croatian banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is excess liquidity. What does that mean? This means that they have 34 billion kunas of their own money that they can do whatever they want to do because they are not obliged to account for that money to anyone. And these 10 billion I said now seem to have fired the CNB in the last tranche another number of billions, so their liquidity is even greater than, that excess liquidity is even more than 34 billion kuna. Therefore, the banks must wait for the payment, and in addition the banks are obliged to the Croatian citizens who have robbed for the course of the franc, for the payment of interest that was illegal for a total of 20 billion kuna, hence those banks that are due to all of us, and perhaps for those of you who are here with me now, perhaps some of you banks owe us, and the banks they owe us should not now be charged in the annuity crisis. What's still missing, and what we haven't covered by the law is the licking, so the licking should be covered by the moratorium, it's primarily important for those companies that deal with transport, so they've got to get to licking buses, some other means of transport or the means of working in agriculture, so it's not working for them now, they need to be given a lysing moratorium because they don't fit at this time. So there are a series of measures still missing, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider this bill that we have put into the SDP procedure and I as Parliament's representative of the SNAGA party. I hope you will also consider this new package of measures mentioned by my colleague Bernardic, about cards, about unblocking citizens, about breaking up accounts, about free Internet banking. I don't think there's gonna be a problem with that, the government hasn't done it yet, but I don't think the government will have a problem with that, and that if the government doesn't even accept this proposal, they're going to prepare their proposal the way the government thinks it's best and they're going to put it in the process within about 7 to 10 days. Here's thank you for listening very carefully to what I've put forward and I hope you'll accept all of it in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197850	Thank you to Reverend Goran Aleksic. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinovic has a request for the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197851	... in accordance with Article. 248. The Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work seek a five-minute break in front of the club Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to warn the citizens and here present representatives of the complexity, the additional complexity of this economic situation in Croatia for which this second round of measures will not be sufficient today. In that sense, and thus I want to change Croatia constructively to this proposal for a package of measures that is now being discussed, I would like to draw particular attention to the second pension pillar. I'm looking for and I suggest, respected citizens, that they all be deposited in another pension column frozen during the crisis. Why? Because every month, on average, about 500 million kuna is paid into the second pension column, which is about 6 billion kuna a year. Now imagine how much it would mean, respected citizens, 500 million kunas every month during the crisis that you can get that money that's missing from the state, that you can pay minimum workers who have lost their jobs, social cases, those who are seasons that no one sees or asks what they're doing somewhere in between. Therefore, I think it is very important and we take advantage of this situation, we are ready, we have excellent economic experts in the party to change Croatia, we use this crisis to start reforming the second pension pillar, to transform it, to give people freedom to transfer their money or to the first pension column where they will guarantee the state or to the third liberal so that they can be rich or lost, but the time is so. If we do this, we will drastically reduce public debt, repair public finances and contribute to saving the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197852	Thank you. I'll have a break by 14.50. THE PURPOSE
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197853	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.50 HOURS]] So we have three replicas, we have two replicas at the exhibition of our colleagues Bernardic, we have one replica on the presentation of our fellow Lalovec. First fellow Maras at the fair of fellow Bernardic. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you explained a whole series of laws that I don't think it's a good thing we didn't discuss before the vote today, because some proposals are certainly still very current and we just need to apply them. One such proposal is also the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act where we predicted that one parent should be allowed to stay with his child if both parents work because we know that school doesn't work, that our children are home. We must thank parents who at this time are making a great effort to make up for this situation that is with their children, teachers who send tasks parents must work because they simply have to gain knowledge. And it would be much easier if the state would allow one parent to be at home with his child and do what is necessary. Here's what I want you to further comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197855	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197856	Dear colleague Maras. Maybe that's why you said that we don't actually have the government's opinion today because if they asked anyone responsible from the health care system of any epidemiologist, you'd say that for the possibility of spreading the infection isn't as good as our thousands of citizens do, going to work with children because they don't have anywhere to leave them. They're going with little boys, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia it hasn't been recorded yet, but we've seen that young people and children can be infected around the world and unfortunately the coronarys of the virus are dying. Not to mention when you bring a child to work, that virus can spread faster. So I can't believe that in a month there's no understanding, no sense, no common sense when it comes to treating parents who should stay home with their children for up to 12 years to prevent and spread the infection, but to make their lives much more pleasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197857	Thank you. The next replica of a colleague of the coat of arms on a colleague of Bernardic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197858	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Maras spoke of one important measure, and I would single out one other which seems to me to be extremely important for Croatian citizens, which is a matter of moratorium on loan payments. What the government of the Republic of Croatia has agreed with Croatian business banks and what business banks are giving based on their decision is all but a moratorium. It is a delay, a delay that citizens and citizens will pay dearly because during the duration of that delay they will be charged interest on the entire principal of the loan. So, in this way, the banks will actually cost 6 months of delays to Croatian citizens and make extra money in this way. That is why I believe that this may be the most important measure of all that we have proposed, and I absolutely advocate its adoption and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197859	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197860	First of all, thank you, fellow coat of arms, for that observation. That's what we're going to insist on, it's inadmissible that at this difficult moment the banks are reaching for additional profits in those who are unhappy with this crisis, which are the most endangered. And it is unacceptable for the government to calmly observe that additional interest is being charged on loans that people can no longer pay, especially those 20,000 people who are out of work thanks to the late government reaction or those 400,000 who fear that they will lose their jobs because simply those companies where they work today are closed. And that's why it's necessary, and that's why we're going to insist on making a moratorium on loans for the citizens for a year, but in a way that doesn't account for any extra interest because it's absolutely certain that this crisis is going to last and that we're going to need some more time to get out of this crisis. That's why we've been looking for a year, not any less prolongation periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197861	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask a colleague of Lalovec and a colleague of Maras you have a replica on a colleague of Lalovec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197862	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, I'd like to comment on the situation regarding the delay and moratorium on the loans. At this point, we have a situation that is not regulated and defined, so some banks haven't charged loans by this date until they see that citizens are applying for them to process and examine it in some way who would have the right and who wouldn't have the right. But I think and I think it would be normal for the state to regulate the system and know exactly what situation citizens are entitled to the moratorium for a year and on the other hand to protect them from the uncertainty of the next months and the next year. Because we know all seasons will be zero, over 300,000 people will be out of a job very soon, 300,000 took advantage of the possibility of being on the minimal offered by the government, the state has to do it urgently, so we don't have time to wait because the banks already recognized certain problems I think the state should too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197863	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197864	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, for asking. That's why the SDP also proposes a moratorium for a year, precisely because this won't be over in three months, only at 6 and 7 months we'll see the state of unemployment in society, we'll see that a number of companies that will only then open their doors at 6 and 7 months start from zero, let's not forget that they start from scratch that these three months of moratorium mean nothing to them. These companies will all take more than a year to recover their pre-crisis traffic. And because of this, when these companies start from zero, they will likely have minimally certain revenues, no tourism, no economic activity, and therefore it is important that in the 6th, 7th and 8th months when economic activity is due to return, not all banks will be frozen to purchase all of the liquidity from the system and thus will still cause economic recession and therefore we expect a very fast liquidity fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197865	Thank you. Now the government's representatives will give an additional explanation in a united call it a 15-minute debate with you being able to replicate each and every one of them, they will change. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197866	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In addition, to the set of legal regulations as well as the conclusions proposed in this agenda, a total of 10, what was introduced and said in view of the government's obligation to give its position and opinion, which for obvious reasons is the speed of action, given that these proposals are also by emergency procedure, here I use the opportunity to present at least in this section as regards the Ministry of Finance, so colleagues in their section. I would just like to begin by thanking my colleagues from the SDP and everyone who voted today for these legal regulations adopted by this House of Commons, proposed by the Government in order to mitigate the effects of the coronary epidemic of the virus. So far, we have had two packages of legislation in March and now in this month, totaling 32 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 18 decisions and 3 conclusions are all aimed at protecting the health of citizens, and, of course, preserving jobs and preserving the liquidity of businesses so that the economy can survive at all. In this regard, because of sustainability and the state budget itself, they would point out that in this way and in this way these measures so far have been developed by the Government in terms of citizenship, and solidarity and synchronisation in the work of all components of society is more than necessary and important to emerge from this crisis as little as possible and that the economy and society can function as a whole. As regards the legal rules that came from the Ministry's domain, there were five, the General Tax Law as a roof regulation that regulates the relationship between the tax authority and the taxpayer through whose... we went to regulate all these provisions concerning the suspension of payments to ultimately write down claims all under the tax code through the General Tax Code. This is what we wanted to shorten the procedures and go line-by-line in that part of taxation, all of the norms went through the General Tax Law, and now, after today's vote of law, of course, will be accessed and drawn up by the regulations themselves, which will set the deadlines where they are needed in terms of moving deadlines, as is, for example, allowed through the amendment of the Accounting Act, but in this section through the Regulation they will be allowed to be now 30.6. or some other date due to this operationality daily because the situation is changing, they can be freely said from day to day. So it's very important to know that as we know we have the main factor or factor in this whole situation completely unknown, it's the length of the duration of this crisis, and with its length and impact on the economy. Therefore, this dosing of measures that the state budget can take or will have to pass through some other types of funding must be such that it is sustainable, that it generally exists as a state budget. As regards these provisions of some of these proposals, I would just like to mention, for example, the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act where an untaxable reward for risk-related risks to elemental disasters is proposed, I would like to remind you that we already have these provisions in norms as untaxable including health care that was previously untaxable. So I'm really sorry, and I wouldn't want it to turn out that we don't want to meet all these good demands that are being proposed here, but since the regulations that are mutually synchronised are both the Ministry of Finance and the other members of the government. Certain proposals here are somewhat contrary to some of the activities that we have today supported by the government's adoption of these legal proposals. Of course, as far as the third round that the prime minister announced in terms of measures related to citizens is concerned, I believe the next measure, and which you are now pointing out here, and I assume that this will have more to say to the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197867	Thank you. I'm asking the next representative of the government. So on your show we have three replicas, we'll do that later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197868	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. I present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in oral form on the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the amount of support to preserve jobs in activities affected by the Crown virus, the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament not accept this proposal for a conclusion on increasing the amount of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the virus virus submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives' Club. First of all, I must stress that the focus of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to protect health, as well as to preserve all jobs and fight for every job. We stand firm behind Croatian workers, and in this sense there is a measure and all the other measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken. The meeting, held on 2 April 2020, concluded on the second group of measures to help the economy resulting from an outbreak of the coronary virus and the implementation of all these measures provided 65 billion kuna, I repeat 65 billion kuna. And for the support we are talking about, support for job conservation is provided 8.5 billion kuna and according to the current projections that we have, this measure will cover 500,000 workers. In accordance with the policy of preserving jobs, the amount of support to preserve jobs in sectors affected by the coronary virus has been increased from 3,250 kuna, as you know to 4,000 kuna per worker for April and May of this year, and employers using those support will also be freed from the cost of corresponding contributions. Just to remind you, the state is also carrying the burden of paying a contribution of around 1,500 kuna. And what I must especially point out is that on today, therefore, on 7 April, we have received 84,000 requests for about 500,000 workers, and only so far have we paid 600 million kuna. You remember that some day already the employers who applied and whose application or application was valid that one day they sat down 600 million kunas in total for a job-preservation measure or support. What I must also particularly stress and remind is that both employers and workers and trade unions and the entire Croatian public have, to a great extent, praised this measure of support for the preservation of jobs. The level of support is set at 4,000 kuna in order to cover as I have said as many workers as possible, to ensure the necessary material protection, to keep people in employment and to facilitate the business of employers under special circumstances and, of course, to account for available financial opportunities. What I must also point out when we talk about support for job conservation, it also existed in the past crisis that lasted during the SDP, but I must state that at that time the support for the preservation of jobs was consumed in 4 years only 2,008 times. Well, thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197869	Time, please. We have two replicas on your exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197870	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. As for the Ministry of Justice's portfolio, we have already repeated several times that with due attention, given the circumstances in which we are working on several amendments to the current legislative proposals. First of all, the executive procedures at this point have stopped. It is our recommendation to the public notaries to make all the public notes available for deadlines that will run when this situation continues. So our recommendation is that public notebooks make executive solutions, but don't send them to the executives until they pass the circumstances caused by the COVID-19 crisis. Also in the following days, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take new measures to fully halt the executive procedures until the elements of this health threat have passed. As regards the proposal to reduce the tightening interest rate on trade relations and contracts between traders and public rights persons, we believe that, although we appreciate the proposal's intention, it was not only in this particular section that the other relations were taken into account. Also in the non-standard part, it is not explained until the end, which means this feedback and justification of such feedback in view of the situation that has arisen since the day we declared the pandemic, which is 19 March 2020. Considering everything that you have suggested the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also working on this set of legal changes that will come in a package with a resolution of laws relating to the Ministry of Justice. The question of deadlines is also a matter of several laws, with due regard to the specificity of the issue of deadlines at the Ministry of Justice, we have proposed and in a few days everything about deadlines will be available to the public in order not to question the functioning of the judicial system as a whole. I repeat, it is not time for us to speak politically now, professionally with the justice portfolio we will do everything to address the issue of blocked citizens in a few days, the issue of enforcement in a way that will stop until the circumstances that require the situation to be normal in the Croatian state continue in a way that we can work on the new Executive Law, and that we now do in this part of the crisis stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197871	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197872	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives of colleagues and colleagues. Here before I start reading what I'm going to say today given these points that I would just remind everyone present today that today is World Health Organization Day, and we can especially speak with pleasure because we all know very well that one of the founders, and surely the first president of the World Health Organization was ours. Andrija Printer. First, he would refer to the proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I must say that the legal proposal suggests that one of the parents has the right to pay wages during the temporary prevention to work for the care of a child up to 12 years of life for the closure of educational institutions and that is, if the reasons for the closure of a health or safety nature are on the burden of HZZO funds. Since the rights provided under compulsory health insurance rights are directly linked to the use of healthcare in the existence of a disease or medical indication to achieve the same, that issue cannot be regulated by the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and cannot be achieved on the burden of the means of compulsory health insurance because there is no medical indication for the same in the sense of the Health Insurance Act. The second promemory is mine, which speaks of the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the maximum or maximum monthly amount of salary compensation, on the burden of HZZO assets, isolated or self-insulated employees due to the Covida-19 epidemic. This proposal proposes to increase the maximum monthly amount of salary compensation on the burden of HZZO funds to isolated or self-insulated employees due to an outbreak of covids and to the amount of the average salary in the Croatian Republic in January 2020. The proposal is not acceptable without the provision of additional funding from the state budget and therefore we do not agree with the proposal of this law Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197873	Thank you. Please give me just stay here, and we'll go the other way because we have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, followed by his colleague Maras. And I apologize to Anka's colleague, Mr. Taritash. Just stay, so you can answer immediately that we don't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197874	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State and I join in reminding ourselves that today is the World Health Day, especially dedicated to nurses and midwives who make a really big contribution to this fight. What I want to ask you is, are you in charge of ensuring the financial stability of this system in the ministry, because after the end of the crisis, the situation will be even worse, and therefore I appeal that, at the same time with the fight against the crown of the virus, you lead and fight to save the financial stability of the health system when the coronary crisis is over. Also, since we have all received a letter from the Chamber of Health Care Professionals of a special segment of health laboratory activity, to withdraw from the e-consultation of the law currently in the debate on medical biochemical activity because it is not in conformity with all stakeholders and is a discrimination against the employees of the laboratory profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197875	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197876	I would refer to this first part, to this second part, I think we've talked a lot about it, and I think that when this entire epidemic of Corona virus passes, we'll have plenty of time to talk about it in peace. As far as the financial situation is concerned, the fact is that we are now in a special position to provide health care to all those who have suffered from Covidom-19 infection and that this is our priority because it means not only that we have to provide financial resources for the adaptation of our hospital spaces, for the opening of respiratory centres, for the unification of certain functions of intensive care, intensive therapy, the acquisition of apparatus etc., etc., so for now we in one part would say reduced health work on issues of more selective procedures, and to the maximum focus on what cannot wait, and these are clearly medical emergencyes and malignant diseases, in this respect we have maximum orientation. and technical and financial, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197877	Thank you. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197878	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, as I understand from your debate, the government, or the state, has no money to pay to allow parents to stay, at least one of the two employed parents to stay with their children at home. When we estimated what the amount would be for the next period, we came to some billions of kunas if we used that exactly all in the Republic of Croatia in such a situation, which probably wouldn't be the case. But it's amazing to me that for our children, for parents who have to work with them on their home education, who have to take care of them, try to be sure in some way not to expose them to this whole situation under the motto "stay home" the government says there's no money for it. For some other things that cost the same thing, there's money. Now, you explain to me why the government can't find the money to keep each of our parent employees at least one of them, with their children at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197879	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197880	So I can't speak on behalf of the government, I'm not Prime Minister or Prime Minister, but I can say what and repeat what I said today and today this part of the financial compensation is not part of it, not part of which would be the health insurance from which patients who need to finance the health system as a whole are financed. So he just can't get into this law. If the government has money from some other means, I can't say it right now because I'm neither Minister of Finance nor Prime Minister, but I can't get into HZZO health insurance, it's not the same, there's no place for that legal space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197881	A fellow Maras injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197882	Thank you very much. The 238th article was injured, you here Mr. Secretary of State said you couldn't answer because you're neither Prime Minister nor Minister of Finance, and why did you come here to give your opinion on it? Are you just here to convey greetings and messages or represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about this law? You must give us an answer if you are a representative of the government. Why is it not possible to secure these funds in the state budget? It's going to be budget rebalance, plan them, you can't tell us that's not possible. So I'm begging you, Mr. Vice President, they're here. Government representatives have to give us answers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197883	Thank you, so in. So just for a second, so you can't because this isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Maras. [[/Intruder: Can I answer?]] So they give answers within their means, so no injured Rules of Procedure Please don't do this anymore. [[Intruder: Within its resources.]] Third replica of Anka's colleague, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197884	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you are here on behalf of your ministry and on behalf of the Government and we expect answers from you. In my replica, I ask you to read the following fact. So we at the GLAS Club immediately applied for an emergency procedure of the law where those in self-insulation linked to the threat we have from the virus would have a fee different from that prescribed at this point. What exactly is this about? It's about two weeks of self-insulation, and we only gave that up when it started, the fee was 2,100 kuna and it remained. But there's something else, when we looked at that law, that compensation for people who decided to donate an organ to someone, so they give someone their kidney, when they're on sick leave to receive a fee of 4,400 kuna in a month. So I'm interested in your position regarding these self-insulation and organ donation charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197885	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197886	It is difficult to compare the diseases resulting from organ transplants and the issue of organ transplanters with Covida-19 infection. These are two things that in medicine simply cannot be compared because they have neither the same etiology nor the same medical I would say weight. As for financial compensation to people who are in isolation or self-insulation, it is as much as the Government has decided at the moment that they can give, and whether there will be financial resources in the coming period depending on the development of the overall situation with this pandemic that is something we will see in the future, and probably according to that, we will then be different and financially oriented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197887	Thank you. Now we have three replicas of Secretary of State Salapic. The first is a colleague of the coat of arms, you can talk slowly, and you'll make one small intervention. Thank you. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, I assume you know what I'm going to ask you, and this concerns the situation in the judiciary and the fact that despite the announcements made by the Minister of Justice Mr. Bosnjakovic in the interim building of a meeting in the basement of a historic ININE building 10 days ago, we still don't have a law that would regulate the course of court deadlines in times of crisis. And you and I both know how many problems there are in the Croatian judiciary otherwise, we know that these problems are further highlighted now in the Kovid era, we know that there are courts that are blocked because individuals in these courts have been infected, we know that the earthquake makes it impossible to use a whole series of courts buildings in Zagreb. My question is, when are you going to refer to the procedure a law that will regulate the time-limits in court proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197889	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197890	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, we are in preparation for the deadline law, and we have already repeated it several times. It's not about one law. It's about a set of laws and a very sensitive matter. What I can say responsibly, the justice system in the circumstances in which we are caused by the earthquake, Covidom-19, works so that the rule of law is not compromised at any time. As for the specifics, we are in a few days will be after Easter and with you here in Parliament discussing this. There is nothing that would endanger any citizens of the Republic of Croatia to protect their rights, and also as far as investigative procedures are concerned, the urgency of court proceedings, all courts in the Republic of Croatia are doing their job in such a way that these laws are implemented no matter where the court is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197891	Thank you. The next replica of Anka's colleague Mrak Taritas, followed by counterpart Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197892	Before starting with the replicas, distinguished secretary of state, therefore we are in this area not because of the crown but because of the earthquake that was in Zagreb. The earthquake that was in Zagreb, what we have a chance to see has done a lot of damage in courts that are basically in the lower city where there was damage. I'm curious, of course, when you're here, then you're going to give us answers to what we have a chance to ask you, which is whether it started with the damage recovery, as you've thought, whether or not with the Ministry in charge of the property you're seeing some other locations where the work of the judiciary might take place, because some resolutions will take a very long time, and we think that life can't stop and we hope that this threat will end quickly, so that life will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197893	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197894	Thank you very much. You were the Minister of Construction, and then you know that some demands are complicated. As far as the County Court building in Zagreb is concerned, the reconstruction took place immediately after the earthquake and will eventually become operational. As for replacement properties, we have found several locations that will soon be published by one of them is a building on Harambasic Street that has about 4000 square meters, there will be moved by certain judicial institutions, the Commercial Court, part of the Administrative, etc. What we've been doing certainly from the day of the earthquake to today, we've taken steps to make the entire justice system work soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197895	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197896	Thank you. Dear Secretary Salapic, please answer my very simple question, you have now announced publicly that the government will prepare a stalemate of all tasks. But from what I've come from the media, I've concluded that it's a law relating to monetary performances, but I'm asking you specifically now, does this mean that it's going to be a stalemate of all tasks, means those who go through the FINE and those who the employer takes out from pay and pay the creditor where the pension is, too, part of the pension goes to the believer, will all of this be covered by the stalemate, and will there be a delay in the flow of tight interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197897	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197898	Your Honor, I've said and I repeat three times, we've been working on everything, we've made a recommendation to the public notaries to do a stop since the day the earthquake happened and these results caused by Covidom-19. No executioner has received an executive solution, no action, no execution, no actions. Within a week, we will unblock 240,000 citizens in time of 3 months when they will be able to fully manage their incomes in full amounts. As for the others, if I did not say in advance something that needs to be discussed on professional bodies, I would not want to be hasty to make sure that at this point we stop and help as many Croatian citizens as possible at the risk of this health threat in a way that we will stop as much as possible with the executive procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197899	Thank you. Next we have two replicas to the secretary of state, Mrs. Buric. We have, first is colleagues Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic. A little intervention, so we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197900	Dear Secretary of State, you have proudly pointed out in your presentation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the first step of 3,200 kuna in the second of 4,000 kunas net and around 5,200 gross for more than 80,000 employers and about 500,000 Croatian workers. I wonder if you can give us information on how much of these 500,000 workers before the crisis and before the decision on the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had a salary greater or significantly greater than that 3,200 kuna or 4,000 kuna or whether you can tell us how many of them fell to the minimum because of this government decision and whether these employers will still feel this crisis or not, or whether it will fall on the back of those 500,000 workers. And on the other hand, I have to comment that in your comparison of support from the SDP government I have an impression, I hope I'm wrong, as if you're lucky that this crisis hit Croatia so that you can say that HDZ has given 500,000 support, which is much less than he was giving the SDP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's exactly what I noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197901	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197902	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Giujic, I'm sorry that your feeling is cheating on you, it's very cheating on you. So I'll repeat our focus is health protection and on the other hand protection of all jobs. That is why we have provided an additional 8.5 billion kuna for the support measure to preserve jobs. What I must also tell you is that today we have 84,000 demands for about 500,000 workers, and so far we have paid about 600 million kuna. We're working at five speeds and moving on intensively. I just want to say that in the HZZ which is the implementing body for this measure, officials work in two shifts, so it is really intensive and what is our main intensity and the main goal is to preserve jobs. Also facilitating employers, facilitating workers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197903	Thank you. Next replica of colleague Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197904	Mrs Buric argued in her presentation that the measures of the government of the Republic of Croatia are equally supported by employers, workers and trade unions. It's only partially true. So you've respected almost all the proposals that came from the HUP, but not a single proposal that came from the union. Moreover, an amendment to the Labour Act has been prepared in your ministry to derogate workers' rights. That's fortunately prevented at the GSV session at least for the time being. Can you tell me if you are planning to bring any changes to the Labour Law in due time or if you are planning something else that we have already heard to suit workers, rather than going towards breaking this crisis just over their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197905	Thank you. Here's an answer from the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197906	Thank you very much. So that component, which is unfortunately unpredictable, is the duration of this entire crisis related to the crown, i.e. Covid-19. Our short-term measures and the medium-term measures are presented, before you. What I am extremely pleased about is that a very high consensus has been reached, I will repeat both employers and workers and unions and the overall social community and I believe that in any case it is something that is very important at this time and because of the feelings of our citizens and the sense of security and protection in very, very difficult and challenging times. Anyway, what I also have to tell you is that we've opened absolutely all the questions, we've assumed all the questions and we're considering [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197907	Thank you. And the last set of replicas on Secretary of State Zrinasic. There you go. You don't have a replica anymore. First up, she's a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197908	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have spent a lot of time with us in this crisis, and in your opening statement, you have explained what you have done, what you have done, what you intend to do. We don't normally think in GLAS that the state should always and every time everything is very sharp and everything needs to be regulated and regulated, but when it comes to banks, when it comes to the moratorium on loans, when it comes to the lying houses that colleagues were talking about in the opening presentation, we don't think that it can just work on a deal between the resolution minister and the banks, so that banks decide, we think it should also be defined by law. Don't let it happen to us that behind this crown epidemic and the downfall of the economy, the only one who will benefit from it and come out richer will be the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197909	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197910	Here, thank you very much. I agree with your suggestion in terms of the treatment of all entities in this crisis and the financial sector mentioned. Of course, this one division of all the participants in this situation is very important in terms of balance and tomorrow the continuation of life, as well as our citizens, and economic operators, and ultimately the financial institutions that in their part this is leaning on or these former ones are leaning on them. We have had some further proceedings that financial institutions have launched against the Republic of Croatia for, due to the adoption of certain legal norms that we still have court proceedings outside the Republic of Croatia, and in that sense, the government in the first steps has been better agreed than imperative if it is possible. Of course, this tall home and all together We'll bring certain regulations that are best. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197911	Thank you. Comrade coat of arms, here's another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197912	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, of course, and my question will be focused on the moratorium on loans, you understand why. I got word today by a gentleman with his situation, a loan he took last year, a war of 3,000 kunas a month, a clear principal in this year has paid nothing back. In order to get a six-month stay, so to get a refund of $18,000, the bank will account for an interest of more than 12,000. Do you think that's okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197913	Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197914	Thank you very much. Now you've brought up one case that is probably and life-like, I really can't get into the calculations right now, but the situations that have happened so far, or today, in terms of the crisis triggered by the corona virus, they're not at all comparable, so we're going to agree, and what this crisis is about to take action is to take those measures that were unimaginable until yesterday. So in this sense, what we are discussing today and what will be discussed in the coming days and making appropriate decisions will certainly require some measures that may not have been imagined in the past, and so this question that you are now asking, indeed weighs now what is right, you are a lawyer in the given conduct in terms of the Law on Mandatory Relations and other measures that, in certain exceptional circumstances, are necessary to take, this is something that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197915	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197916	Thank you, Vice President. So, first of all, I would like to say that all state secretaries here represent the government and I can't say that they don't represent the government, if they don't represent the government, they shouldn't have come here, she should have come as Prime Minister and Minister. Why is the suspension of the moratorium on loans of 3 months not sufficient? Because people took credit for example. in tourist activity extended either quality or expanded their accommodation facilities. This season is gone, it is clear to all of us, because the crown must stop not only in Croatia it must stop throughout Europe or around the world for tourists to go at all. Those people already know. What does it mean to them if after three months they have to pay off the loan, and they don't make money because this year they won't make any money. So, come on, let's approach the reasonable problem, reasonablely. So this proposal of ours to be for a year until they start working, until they start working is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197917	Thank you. Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197918	Thank you very much for asking. The measures launched by the Government during March and relating to the Coronal Virus, of course, are seen in terms of other Member States that are economically stronger and more powerful in terms of the construction of measures concerning the state budget. In this part and other measures that are not directly related to the state budget, of course the government has watched other Member States do so since we are EU members. Indeed, it is one graduation and degree of measures, so that the synchronicity and solidarity of all participants is now extremely important and not only as a flossula, and not only as a flossula, but also as an necessity to overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197919	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the proposal, actually, a set of laws. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, so she is a colleague of Grozdana Peric's. Here you go, after the intervention, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197920	Respect for the esteemed vice president, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, first and foremost to the Government, and we must always respect all the good proposals that are possible to always be accepted and incorporated into even better legal proposals. What we cannot accept at this time, which is this set of your laws, the SDP proposal, primarily because, as you know, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, and unfortunately, the earthquake that took place on the 22nd of this month and last month, so the two situations that were in any scenario were actually amazing. When the government agreed on those first March measures, it was only thinking about what would happen and what would be the consequences of the pandemic, and you know very well that when any measure is taken that all facts must then be considered, all the effects that would be and how such a situation would reflect both on the economy and on private lives, and in the first place on the health of the population or the whole nation. Therefore, when such measures are taken, they must be very well thought out. You have to take full parameters as if you're doing a new budget because all of the details you have to take care of. So in that first set, the measure covered what we had previously adopted, and we cannot say that it was very bad at that moment. The second set of measures came after this not even 15 days and today we adopted it and you must admit that there are many factors involved that have helped and calmed the whole situation and the uncertainty that has been caused by these two disasters. In the first part of the fee itself was 3,250 plus contributions, now it is 4,000 plus contributions, and in the meantime you see that there have been changes in that everything, every employer who fired a part of the worker precisely because of this uncertainty that he will be able to continue to work, has been given the opportunity to bring these employees back, and at this point there are 13,600 employees who then exercise the right, so they do not interrupt the employment relationship and return to the system of work and have the right to compensation of 4,000 kuna increased for the contributions that are once again on the burden of the state budget and what is important to say that the weight of these measures is over 8.5 billion kuna. At this point, we know that over 60,000 taxpayers, or entrepreneurs, have requested this measure and that more than 600 million kunas have already been paid. Very soon, so in the month, and only a practical application was made. What you should also say is that in, that citizenship and what you have in certain legal requirements is actually a request for a moratorium and so on. credit obligations are all understood, but at this point what we have brought is that through the amendments to the General Tax Law we have regulated exactly the possibility of these obligations being suspended temporarily, to stop the implementation and for all other public duties, and it is certainly always a question of what, after 3 months or after 6 months. And it's perfectly justified that we all think about it because each one of us has or has or has credit obligations and certainly doesn't care when that obligation arrives. However, let the government do and do these, these two packages that will be adopted within a very short period of time, and a new measure that will allow citizens to be so much more peaceful and that it can function in this way. It's already mentioned today what happens and when it's going to happen. In fact, it's very important how long it's going to take this particular measure that's caused by Covido-19. And what remains secretly to us in the following certainly 7, 8 if not for many years, which is these measures that will need to be done to help citizens rebuild apartments, houses, historical sights, churches, etc. and we will certainly have much help from EU funds. What we are also talking about when we talk about a set of these measures is about paying VAT, I have already mentioned that in the VAT projection for this year there were over 50 we expect revenue 55 and some billion kuna and now after this everything that happens pandemic, there is no tourism, there is no consumption, and besides these elemental disasters, then we can assume how much impact all this will have on the revenue side of the budget that cannot expect so much charge and which will have to think very much about a lot of other sources of funding. We must not forget that it is already in previous measures that it is possible for companies to private up to 7.5 million traffic or over 7.5 with a 20 per cent or more drop in traffic to 50%, that the possibility of partly prolonging, reprogramming, to write off part of the claim and debt, therefore a large part of these measures has already been consumed and I think that the Government has responded in a very good and rapid way about all of this. What you just insisted on, and this secretary of state expected to answer your question, so it really can't happen if something isn't caused by disease, infection, etc. that pay compensation cannot then be compensated from a source of compulsory health insurance, then there are other measures because you know it is illegal. So you can't prejudge something, so you can't be sick, but there was a measure for it, and there's a way that you can pay off on a different basis, and another way that can be helped, and eventually it's accepted and we finally adopted it. So when we look at the total of these measures that are now over 45 billion kuna plus 20 billion that have reached commitments from previous periods, then you see that the set of these measures is over 9.6% of our GDP, which is certainly more than many other European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197921	Thank you, thank you. We're continuing on behalf of the clubs. Next registered counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. A colleague of Zekanovic does not have and in accordance with Article 233 he loses the right to talk about this item of the agenda for, throughout the entire debate. We continue with the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, colleagues of Grmoje and colleagues of Bulj shared the debate. First one's a colleague of the Grmoi. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197922	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we warned with that first package of government measures that these measures would not be enough, we said that we needed to go to the write-off, not to the delays, and the government listened to us. At that time, no amendment to the opposition was accepted. Not because these amendments were bad because it proved later that the government was all what we were saying at the Most but also other colleagues actually accepted, but they weren't accepted just because they came from the ranks of the opposition. Today we have the same situation, the second, second round of the Government package, all the amendments we have given have been rejected and it can be concluded that in this crisis situation the opposition shows unity and constructiveness, and by ruling again shows one party boredom. This is what grieves all over this story, and in particular the sadness that those first to be thought of, to whom the first should be intended package they will come third in a row, in the third round after Easter. Our seniors, our pensioners, our unemployed, our blocked and completed. MOST first thinks of you or think of you first, not as the last, as those on which the measures will be taken after the Easter. We asked the Croatian Parliament to continue the session, to support itself or our proposal because we too have a proposal on a moratorium on loans and performances or a proposal from colleagues from the SDP, but we do not even ask for that. Give you your ruling proposal, give your government colleagues your proposal we will gladly raise your hand to him. Our citizens who are the most endangered in our society deserve a peaceful and peaceful Easter, deserve a resurrection without a cold, a resurrection without fear, a Easter in joy with their families. So much for me, and hopefully here you'll change your mind, there's still time, the president of the assembly can call and tomorrow's session of the assembly, the government can give its measures and we'll be happy to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197923	Please stop the time for a moment, thank you. A little intervention. Thank you, ma'am or miss. Here you go, fellow Bull, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197924	My colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representatives of the government, why am I partly disappointed? Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said so too, but it is noticeable in the general public that the opposition is making constructive proposals, and that the Government simply rejects them, and anything proposed constructively by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the opposition accepts it. These measures that the MOST has also given, and we are now discussing the SDP measures especially about the most endangered, about the postponement of the credit, about the delay of the performance, that's what the first tribal is about, the first measure. These people are the most endangered right now. No one would forgive these people, but it would be delayed if they weren't responsible for this crisis. And what he would point to here, today was a vote on the results of Croatian politics, poor conduct of Croatian agriculture, bad leadership, so I gave the law on the ban on the sale of agricultural land. The government rejected it, both foreign and legal, foreign and legal individuals. It is the government of the Republic of Croatia, the honourable representatives of the government, the citizens, if you are looking, who refused to sell agricultural land, refused my proposal to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. And the agricultural land, is, right now, agriculture has said that the wrong policies we had mainly towards agriculture so that it disappoints me that the opposition is constructive at this point, accepts all the proposals that you government representatives make, and you reject all of ours from the opposition, but these are proposals for the benefit of the citizens. Well, a lot of the suggestions I've made for SDP hasn't voted for them, but this is a good proposal, I'll support it. You would hardly accept any amendment, any proposal from the opposition. Why? Because you're using both the crisis and this health and economic crisis exclusively for the PR, and that's not good, everyone here is equal, we're all at risk. Thus, when we are discussing these laws and speaking now with us at Easter today, he represented the council in this crisis, of course, that they should be much, much more constructive from the position of power. If we're looking for a delay, because now it's SDP law, and MOST suggested it, the MOST Club and this and other colleagues in the opposition don't see any reason why you wouldn't accept it and why the government didn't put that measure into emergency procedure and we would vote again today or come tomorrow. And not now for Easter you leave that space, the greatest Christian holiday I congratulate from this place I wish all happy and blessed Easter, the greatest Christian holiday to all our citizens. For days, it was broken whether markets should be opened, so of course the triba with all the respect measures because it is more likely to be infected by the coronary virus in a closed area trade chain, but foreign products are sold there, and domestic products were mostly sold in the markets. Here I hear the announcement now and it is my pleasure that after a long, long application will open up markets that should not have been closed at all, but with all the criteria of respect that the Tribals would respect as in trade chains, but better to buy Italian pomidores, it is better to buy strawberries than this Spain than Vrgoračka, it is better to buy meaning those products. Here, I would say in the end that I am disappointed that we are not continuing to work while all groups of unemployed, retired, particularly completed and blocked and, of course, all these measures he has proposed in this case suggest opposition to what we are leaving. The government could have made this simple, it could have made a proposal for its additions and we could have settled it in this big week before it meant Big Thursday and Big Friday. In this way we would actually come to a solution and a peaceful Easter. In the end, you would wish all the citizens a happy and blessed Easter, hopefully if there are measures here, you see 151 of us here that on this greatest Christian holiday and Croatian believers will have the possibility under all measures either within the sacral churches, either outside churches, here you in the government or in front of churches or in the courtyards will be allowed at least to share, not all, part of the people, the believers can unfortunately have the opportunity to participate in this greatest Christian meanings on Easter, the greatest Christian holiday and the sacrament. And once again, I wish you all a happy and blessed Easter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197925	Thank you. We are continuing to debate on behalf of the club of MPs, next is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, in front of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Taritash. So five minutes dark, five minutes Taritate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197926	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the Crown Virus or Covida-19, no matter what we call it, has caused major changes in our lives. One of these changes will also be seen on the greatest Christian holiday of Easter that we will certainly not be working in a circle of some broader family because everyone is staying home and I really respect that if you are guarding yourself, guarding someone else and keeping everyone around you and we are taking care of it. We sit here at a distance, we don't shake hands, we take care of each other, and when we talk to someone, we use space. And that's all the coronary virus has changed, but something hasn't changed. It did not change that when it comes to opposition proposals that they will get their place in the Croatian Parliament in the worst time, so now not even the evening term, but after the vote, this package of laws won and did not change that when the opposition gives amendments, that these amendments, no matter how reasonable they may be, how helpful they might even be, that they refuse to explain themselves. I'm just going to refer to me as the favorite amendment that was rejected today by our club, we've given an amendment that is related to office leaders and tourism that, because of the Corona virus or Covida-19, they no longer need to know foreign language. So when the coronary is a virus or a Covida-10, those who run offices, they don't have to know foreign language with tourism. And now we say the amendment of my people so don't do crazy things, it has nothing to do with it, and it's being rejected, and it's quite serious, the secretary of state has explained why it's happening, if you're asking me why, I don't know, but it's been pretty serious. But let's get back to this subject. The first set of measures that was in March, I must admit that I'm always somehow trying to understand, so whether or not I agree with that first set of measures that we can call March I understood. We didn't know what the scales were, no matter what the crown was rolling behind the hills when it came to Europe, someone got a little better, someone got a little worse. It was not a willingness to bring some options, or some variants, because it did not know how long this would take. So I had this first set of measures that way. The second set of measures I called April 1 0, because with the certainty that a second set of measures will come in April which we will call April 2 0, all those who spoke can't go in just a delay you have to write off, you have to define something. We spoke as opposition MPs, they spoke to the businessmen, they all said, and in that second set of measures, some things were heard. And you saw that at the vote that was today and that was 130 of us, I don't remember when we were, the last time we were 130 when there was a set of measures or a little less of those Marchs, it just means that after all, the MPs, no matter how we were perceived, are responsible. We are responsible for what we are saying, we are responsible for certain crisis situations and this responsibility and opposition parliamentary deputies are really ready to take over on their backs and no matter what you're discussing and with some things you disagree with and some things you warn us that now the situation is next, which is that we need to support and support a set of measures, but for tango we need two. Tango doesn't go to one, so no matter how you turn around, but the other one's just like that, he's gone to sleep somewhere, and he's waiting somewhere. That's what I'm saying between, so the opposition suggests something, and on the other hand it's a government that's pretty hard to say that these things can't be accepted, but then at some headquarters conferences that I can really say that it seems to me that it's doing a good job, it's using time to deal with some political inexperiences, which is not good. So, at these moments, the opposition has made clear everything from the government that comes, and we conclude that it is good that it will help the citizen, we will support the citizens, but we also think that the time when the opposition proposes something, so sit down, talk, let's talk. And it's not even a problem that then the government in some package April 2 0, May 1 0 or that took what was there and said here we took and said one sentence is the subject of a common agreement. As long as the crown lasts, it should listen to experts and they somehow predict how it will grow, fall, linearly and everything else. What will be the consequences of the Corone or Covida-19 on the economy that no one, regardless of the experiences they have, can predict. It seems to us that this crisis is to be used for a few things. The first thing to take advantage of is a little look at our laws being written. They're being written unreasonablely, written in a way that we don't want them to be understood by anyone, complicated, complicated in procedures, we tend to complicate where we shouldn't. Maybe one of the situations, or the outcome of this crisis, that we all think about it together a little bit. I will only take one example, of course I live in the City of Zagreb, until the City of Zagreb would care, an example of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the behaviour of the City of Gas. People closed the gas in houses that weren't even damaged by the earthquake because they were well built. The gas station said okay, to let you gas out, you have to come to us, you have to fill in 3 or 4 requirements in the context of the crown only you come to us maybe someone has, so we'll split it up and pay 3,000 kuna and then when you do all that, then we'll make a list of priorities and we'll go and release that gas. My people, if it weren't true, it would be for one of those comedies or soap operas, but that's true. So, the first time I heard it from a guy in the city gas station, I was sitting at home, I thought I heard something wrong, I heard something. So, from this crisis, maybe we could come out smarter because look at the e-citizen working neatly, everything works through emails, let's be something smarter and try to see the regulations and see what we regulate and how we regulate it. Another thing we should be able to get out of this crisis, we should be clearly wondering what kind of economy we want for Croatia, whether we want to hang on to tourism, whether we want to only hang on to imports and certain services, or if we think something else is going on here. Today we voted for the amendments to the Agriculture Act, which in the sense of no one at all is disputed, but in the debate we're the Minister of Resorna was with us, we said something we might need to take well-meaningly, we think the time has come when agriculture is for a serious reset. Something about that farm and the way we work is wrong. This is the moment when we can reset ourselves, we can take the green plan that the EU has made regarding climate change, more climate change after 2 months we no longer mention ourselves, and two months ago our mouths were full of climate change, see what the green threshold for agriculture is, and maybe it's a strategy for the development of Croatia's agriculture with some adjustments. From this set of laws, it is especially important that the law which speaks of a delay is related to loans. No, and that's what I said to the secretary of state, and I repeat, and now for the rest of this pay phone, don't let this crisis that's hit us all, we still don't know what the scales are, the ones that come out unscathed or richer, be banks, like it was in every crisis. Let's try to really take care of our citizens and the problems they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197927	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The last reported debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives was a debate reported by counterpart Tomislav Žagar, in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197928	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear State Secretarys and State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. The HSU Club, independent representatives, New Politics and SNAGA will support this set of laws proposed by the SDP Club because one member of our club participated actively in the preparation of these laws. Why is that? Well, this set of laws, first of all, all those measures that the government, which we voted today, are vertical and horizontally expanding. Vertically in the amount of compensation and assistance to be provided, and horizontally to most of our citizens who are not covered by these measures that we adopted here at HS today. Namely, the secretary of state here when she initially explained why the government rejects these bill proposals, I apologize, that's a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club said two important dates, one date was March 19th when the pandemic was declared and the second date was March 22nd when the earthquake was in Zagreb. Why do I mention these two laws? We can see that this process is extremely turbulent and dynamic and that the government, at least so far, has not shown the right way of planning, planning future activities, but is exclusively used for what is otherwise used when steering or managing, requires some kind of feedback, so on 23rd of the earthquake in Zagreb, the 23rd of March center has made a decision to ban leaving the place of residence. Watch out, places of residence, and then this caused a huge amount of passes that were issued because we have 6756 seats in Croatia. That picture shows how things work out only when they come up, and little is planned in advance. Of course, respecting the fact that it's hard to do things and plan ahead. The second thing that matters, as far as these measures are concerned, was not a great situation before the outbreak in the Republic of Croatia. So, even before the outbreak occurred, 140 thousand people were at the Employment Service, but we must not forget the large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had left the Republic of Croatia before that and hired in other countries. We also see that these citizens are returning to the Republic of Croatia, they have no place to go but to the Employment Service, and since the adoption, since the announcement, since the crisis occurred, we see that a large number of citizens have already ended up at the Employment Office. It is true that these government measures can be re-employed and re-received, this amount provided for in the measures. It is seen here that this is a serious, serious crisis and that what the secretary of state has highlighted, and what is the most important parameter in the whole crisis, which is the time of this crisis, which no one can predict how long it will last. So we have an extremely dynamic and busy period in which entrepreneurs will have to respond to the challenges ahead. That's why I think this set of measures is good, but the government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact, the Ministry of Finance, the minister, will have to respond as soon as possible to what kind of rebalancing is expected of the budget in the future. To that question, I think it's going to be the biggest, the biggest challenge on this issue is going to be. And what is crucial is why these measures should be supported. The government will certainly think of them if it does not support them, because although the announcement of this third set of measures will be directed towards citizens, so that it will not be late, because as I said, citizens who are already at the Employment Service, everyone who, whether earlier, has now gone to the Bureau, all who have had problems serving their obligations, especially loans, there are, of course, students, pensioners who find it difficult today. It's hard for them for a number of reasons, and mostly for the fact that their pensions are small, and then this crisis hit them. For all these citizens, therefore, measures should be taken to facilitate and enable them to live and overcome this difficult situation. When GDP is growing, the biggest benefit is those who are richer, but even when GDP falls, it breaks over the back of the poorest, and therefore these measures are very important. In the last debate there when we had in the INA building I mentioned it, I will mention again, that, not by chance, and the financial sector will not hesitate to come out of this process uncircumcised, and in fact they will try to come out uncircumcised in all ways, and that is what the credit rating agency which has reduced Croatia by one degree. Their assessment that GDP would fall by 5%, this could mean according to that rough, budget that the unemployment rate would be 2.5% at least and that is 50,000 people without jobs and these are the things that we will have to answer because it is about citizens who will be out of work, employers of course who will have to close their trades or their businesses and because of these things we need to think about measures as soon as possible and bring them forward. That's why I think this set of measures is good, we'll support them at the club, and I'm telling the government to think hard if he doesn't want to accept the proposals coming from the opposition, and we see that this is the case, so let the public, as soon as possible, have a set of measures that will allow citizens to overcome this crisis and live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197929	Thank you, too. We ended the discussion on behalf of the clubs. We're continuing an individual debate. I'd like to ask Miss for a little intervention, and then a colleague of mine, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197930	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the adoption of this second package, I believe that most of these legal proposals on behalf of the SDP Club will be implemented through the regulation and the former provisions of certain laws. Likewise, certain legislative proposals are not intended to say so to the address to which they might be said, but what I think is also why I came forward for an individual debate and wanted to share with you, and also to point out one problem that first and foremost my colleague Lalovac and I have been talking about in this assembly for a long time, which is a liquidity problem. And this directly binds to this law on credit forgiveness because when we talk about liquidity, then citizens are also liquid and liquid. So, did this legal proposal cover all the obligations that Croatian citizens have. Not only do Croatian citizens have only loans, they also have a commitment to leasing societies and a commitment to card houses, a commitment to insurance companies, a commitment to teleopers and a number of other obligations. Therefore, this law, and I think that the Government is thinking about it, must be complete and must cover all aspects of the obligations that our citizens have. Also, colleagues and colleagues should not forget that over the past few years Croatian entrepreneurs from craftsmen have had an extremely high investment cycle, investing money in economic activities. And many of them have found themselves in this package of measures that the government has proposed, which is to pay salaries and not have to pay pension and health for the simple reason, whether because of the provisions of the headquarters, whether because of this or that reason they simply stopped doing business. And we're talking about a moratorium on loans, so we just have to put all of them in those packages. And that's why the law deserves far wider scope, deserves far more attention for reasons, if we don't approach it that way she thinks we're going to make a lot of trouble. The other thing, from a month ago and a few days ago when there was a law on insurance in the assembly I repeat about the responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. To be honest, I expected that both business banks and Leasing companies and insurance companies would come out with some package of their own when this crisis started with one single goal to protect those who bring them profits. Because they, if those who took up credit with them who made insurance policies or who took something to Leasing if they can't pay them first, put them in trouble. So they should be in the interest of finding that first package. And I think the government is talking in that direction. We have heard that the CNB has already brought about certain changes that they can react to, and if in such a way we could approach this problem which I believe is crucial to the state's funding problem in the coming months, then the law would be comprehensive. And it's a good idea for a colleague from the SDP Club to propose it as a law, but this bill of yours solves only one small segment, just one small segment. Because what difference does it make whether you have to pay the loan or whether you need a war lying to society or whether you need to pay the war to the insurance company, no. It's your obligation that if, and what I think is still important at this point, if you work normally, you do business, you get paid, then this measure doesn't have to apply to you. This measure should apply to those who do not function normally, who do not receive salaries and ultimately we as a social state must take care of our citizens. And I'm saying I think the government will come out with a package that will certainly take care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, without intending to tell you, but colleagues and colleagues you've only dealt with this law one little segment, and that's why I wanted to share this debate with you because I think Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197931	We have one replica, please you can stay. He's a friend of Sagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197932	Dear fellow Shuker, I agree with you, it's true it would be very good for the banks to decide to negotiate with their clients to see which way it goes. However, this so you know from experience doesn't work, it just doesn't work, it's about positions of power, banks are extremely powerful compared to their clients, especially citizens. And actually this, as far as I understand it, is going towards the weakest, the most vulnerable, because with them banks are hardly going to negotiate. It is therefore necessary to define legal frameworks to create moratories on commitments, but not in such a way as to further accumulate interest later, but to simply buy that time for these people, so that while they overcome the crisis, they can continue to serve their obligations. Of course you're right when you talk about other obligations, like, according to the Leasing societies and everyone else, but I think it's from the position that it's hard to expect that banks will work that way. They still need to be legally forced to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197933	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197934	Comrade Sagar, that you listened carefully to what they said, I said that legally, if we need to, we need to solve everything. And the normal thing is that we have to think about those who are the most vulnerable, that we have to react here, but I repeat, everyone in their segment is important. And I guess the banks burned after that big crisis 10 years ago and how great they are. The placements had to be converted into non-refundable claims and that they would think and think about how to save those who ultimately bring them profits and repay loans and pay interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197935	Thank you. The next debate is a debate from fellow Pernar. And a little intervention from my colleague Pernar. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197936	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The solutions this government has for the current crisis are not adequate and will not solve it, and I will explain why. The main problem is with loans, by putting on a moratorium, the cause of the problem is not solved. The problem is that these loans will ultimately need to be paid back and that many people living on tourism during the summer months are expensive money to pay off the loan for the rest of the year. However, in this case, what will happen? Moratorium will last, for example. For the next few months, they'll run out of money from the season, it's just a season, for example. failed, which is very likely to happen and suddenly end this extraordinary state of Beroshevo. Yeah, this isn't gonna last forever. And what happens when it goes away? And then the banks will say now, look, there's no state of emergency, the loans have to go back, and the revenues from this summer are gone. Where are these people gonna get your loans back from? They've got nowhere to go. Another problem, all the time this moratorium, interest is accounted for. So are you aware of what that means? Where are people gonna get those interest back from? The legislator doesn't care. Here's an identical example of the work. The government says we're introducing a moratorium to execution. And what does that mean in practice? Well, in practice, it means that the same scheme goes on the same way. It's not going to stop now, it's just going to bring down that waterfall, as soon as these measures are cut off, and the reason for this whole executive hell is that the performances are actually given to public notebooks, which they can account for whatever fees and what ultimately, you have enormous costs of the execution, so people don't necessarily kill the debt for water of 200 kuna, but they get killed by the costs of the execution. They're getting killed by the fee that FINA's taking. FINA is taking an enormous fee. Did the government solve that question? No, I don't. The government neither solves the issue of interest, or there are no interest moratories, nor does it think about what will be left of income with people this summer, and when the moratorium passes, it will have to. Yes, when the moratorium passes and this state of emergency passes, it will have to continue to repay the loan, it has nowhere to go. The government doesn't care about that. This solution that the government has, you know what these solutions are? These are short-term solutions. Maybe the government has a solution to the election of parliamentarys at 9:00. I mean, what's it gonna be in 10, 11, 12, 1, 2, 3. Mesa, 5 months. Next year? And the government doesn't think about it. This is one crazy way, this policy has no vision whatsoever. Also, there's one more thing I want to say. If the population is not divided into young and old, both healthy and sick, and it will go with a general quarantine story that is being imposed on us at all times, it will take a very long time for a critical number of people in the population to get infected and get over the crown. Yeah, that's the problem. It's going to take a very long time, instead of being, because young people, they have no mortality at all, 0.1%. Instead of allowing young people to get over, get immunity, a critical part of the population to have resistance to this virus and end with quarantine measures, quarantine measures will be delayed indefinitely. And you know what kind of solution they're going to offer? Then he'll offer as a solution, what? The vaccine. And then they'll tell my people, we have to protect the weaker. But you all need to be vaccinated. And what about those who refuse to vaccinate? He'll be in trouble again. I don't see where this policy leads, I can't understand people who support the general instead of selective quarantine. I don't know how many more months they're planning on keeping the whole people in this agony because people are mentally firing and they can't take this condition anymore. But nobody cares about that, and half the country's on the minimal, which is what those who are unemployed and who were planning to do, seasons, have nothing to live on, so nobody cares. The state doesn't regulate it at all, I asked Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic, what about those who don't have a fee from the Stock Exchange? What do they live on now that they can't find a job? And Plenkovic says, Alardovic will find a solution. I don't see him yet. When will this solution come? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197937	Thank you, colleague Pernar. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Sasa Djujic, please a little intervention, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197938	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues from the SDP. So here's how much the government is interested in our measures and our proposals, this shows that there aren't any MPs in the hall right now except for the SDPs. So, they're full of the mouth of the community and all that... Now you're in, now you're in [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you're in. ... [[Intruder: Mr. Pernar.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197939	Mr. Pernar, Mr. Pernar Mr. Djujic, Mr. Pernar. [[You're in from the outside now.]] Mr. Pernar Mr. Pernar. ... [[Intruder: Yes.]] Mr. Pernar, a reminder [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm not gonna throw him out, but I'm giving him a warning, this behavior is not appropriate. [[Don't kick him out because then he'll say you threw him out on purpose so I can say there's no one but us.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197940	Here, I welcome fellow Pernar who just returned and fellow Shucker who has now entered, thank you very much. So what I'm saying is, this is already the 3rd package of measures SDP is proposing. 3. package, so after the first two of which none of them were adopted, none of them were accepted. So we propose certain solutions and certain measures that the Government then partially accepts after a while. The same thing is with this package. So here and just now, my colleague Schucker said in his debate that we're covering a small part, a small segment of the problem when we're talking about a moratorium on loans, that we haven't fully worked it out and worked it out, let's just say that the government is going to cover that part in its future action, and it's going to work it out together. But he didn't tell his colleague Shuker that our proposals, for example, were not working. He didn't say, because he knows that he's part part of it, part of it's good. I listened well, I heard it all right. Well, what's the problem, you know what my colleague Shucker is? We are proposing these packages because the ruling HDZ has not included the opposition since the first day of the conversation. You didn't turn it on. You can nod all you want. You're not. You are sitting alone with yourself and this second package of government measures that was now, which was delayed in part you presented to your coalition partners, and you did not find it appropriate to invite opposition representatives to this conversation, you did not. Because you don't need us, because you don't care what we have to say, and that shows this hall here today. Empty, just you fellow Shucker, here you are, and colleague Pernar. And my colleague Pernar. ... So when I don't have anyone, how am I supposed to, what am I gonna mention about Sanader when he's not here? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What am I going to say? Who? I mean, what am I going to say, here, a colleague I don't know, who? Who? You tell me, fellow Shuker, when you're alone. There's no one here. Nobody cares. The SDP is a colleague here, is, is, we've had enough. So, look, we suggest, you don't listen, you don't care. Another thing again, so it's not the devil that none of our proposals are right. We are in this package of measures, I am now not going to enter into each individual, but colleagues Bernardic and Lalovac said in the introduction, this is the third package that includes citizens, citizens who are also the most socially endangered of whom the government has not considered at the moment. I'm not saying he won't think in his third package. But I don't understand why the opposition isn't involved. You say, "Here's a good suggestion, and you didn't even bother to fix it." So today we wouldn't be discussing this or counting here if Prime Minister Plenkovic's first day had called all the presidents of the opposition parliamentary parties and said, let's hear, let's all heads together, who has any suggestions. So maybe one part of our measures would be included already in the government's package and instead, and all the time you're talking here, make suggestions, thank you, but that's not enough. It's not good, but we're going alone. We only represent coalition partners. Gentlemen, this concerns the entire country, both left and right and all citizens, not just HDZ and its coalition partners. And for that, here we appeal to you, let us in, so we can't wait until you remember something, until you remember citizens with credits. Well, we had to propose a law. We don't have another model. Our representatives didn't sit with the government's representatives at the meeting so they could make some kind of suggestion there, so here you are, fellow Shuker, you complete it and you say, and you made a good proposal. Here, there's only the ones with the loans, there's no lying, there's no insurance houses, there's no such thing as that, so we could do a whole proposal together. And this is how we have to make suggestions when you don't listen to us, you don't want to hear us. You're saying it's not time for politicizing, and it's yesterday as a charger. Plenkovic, Sanader, Bozinovic, in his uniform on the fifth, 5th day in a row, calls counterpart Bernardic and SDP. That's, what's that? That's not politicizing? You've got suggestions, you've got suggestions, we'll respect everything, you don't respect anything today. You haven't accepted any of our amendments today. So what exactly are all our suggestions stupid? Well, I didn't realize it from your discussions that we're proposing nonsense or stupidity, but even praise it, but look, what, we're enough for ourselves. That's not good. We're not at war, but we're not in any ordinary condition. And not to mention, this session procedure, first in that building of INA over there, and today here and limiting replicas and speeches, I hope that from the 15th time we get back to our building things will go back to normal. I don't have any more time, but I expect we'll get back to normal and start listening to us as an opposition. Because, look, this situation will pass, I hope as soon as possible. Maybe in a month, maybe in two. Maybe in 3 and then they'll [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to file accounts. [[Intruder: Stay here.]] So it won't be binco Support, we can all the time... [[We have 3 replicas.]] Okay, thank you, here, just to finish the thought. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197941	Thank you. A colleague of Hajdukovic's. Here's the first replica, the second one's a colleague of Shucker's, then a colleague of Jagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197942	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djujic, you're talking about a call for community, this lack of respect for the opposition, so I'd just like to go over there and say that HDZ calls for consensus and for community only when it suits them. And you know how they experience that unity and consensus? "Here you can back us up." And we are not criticizing or criticizing, nor criticizing, but making concrete suggestions. Yeah, maybe some of our proposals aren't perfect, but that's why, in the debate, we should all come up with the best proposals to protect our citizens. And.../incomprehensible... when we do that to HDZ, they reject it. And therefore, I fear that these measures will eventually turn out to be flawed in a lot of things, that they will change many times, that they will contribute to the uncertainty of the labour market and the market in general in the economy and we will actually produce exactly the counterproductive effect of what we wanted, which is to protect citizens, workers, but also entrepreneurs and economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197943	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197944	Comrade Hajdukovic, of course, that all our measures are not perfect, such as the Government's all measures. But two heads are smarter than one, and that's what we've been trying to do all along to deal with this crisis, not to have the HDZ running its story. Well, look, they dropped the Parliament, that debate in the INA about that package last time was nothing, what pro-forma, out there at the President of the Parliament saying you have the right to 2 replicas per club. So they don't even want to listen to us. They won't listen to us today. So it's not going anywhere. So, we should, this is not a HDZ crisis and its coalition partners, but all of Croatia's citizens, and we must have the opportunity to talk together and all the best, every party, every political option that has in its ranks to make it easier for the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197945	Thank you. Next replica, fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197946	Thank you very much. Well, it's not good to say things that aren't right. I'll use the softest expression, if my colleague Bauk were here, he could confirm to you that the Prime Minister has summoned all these leaders and opposition parties and clubs and has exposed them to measures to discuss. So much for that, that's the facts. Secondly, I think my personal debate today was about discussing the subject. Third thing, colleague Djujic, we've known each other for a long time. I was expecting, since I'm the only MP from the opposition here, that you're going to try to put in some arguments to convince me that something is not contained in the existing laws, that I did something wrong. You've been talking all along about how someone like this, how you're somebody like that. Okay, that's what you said, that's what your colleagues will say, but explain why your laws are good, I even said that one law and missed a target because those funds can't pay off what they're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197947	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197948	And fellow Shuker, I expected you to convince us why our laws are not good and that the government did better than us and that we should give up. But on the contrary, you said that one segment did well in this moratorium law on loans, so what do I have to explain to you that this is a good move? Well, you know it better than I do, you said it yourself. In fact, you've spread the story that we haven't covered the Leasing Houses, that we haven't included insurance companies, so here's what we talked about before, we could have given one quality whole law together. And when you said we didn't sit down, that we didn't, that, uh, Comrade Bauk, here he came now, that the Prime Minister invited them to that first package of measures that the entrepreneurs and all welcomed to the knife together. This last vote we voted here today at noon you presented to coalition partners on Thursday and on Friday came to debate after a hasty procedure in HS, i.e. in the basement of the INA on 2 representatives per club. And we couldn't make a contribution, no one listened to us, no amendment was adopted, today Here, who's listening to us? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Who are we talking to?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197949	Thank you. Last replica, colleague Sagar Comrade Sagar, here you go. [[Intruder: My emotions are working.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197950	Dear colleague Djujic. So, you said it right. The situation is quite complex, and when you say that we're going back to normal, then you should keep in mind that this return will be extremely difficult. It is clear that there will be a danger to the health of citizens and that at that moment citizens will start living normally. But back to those positions that weren't good before this crisis, I'm talking about economic situations where citizens were and the economy is going to be difficult to achieve, let alone what we planned before this crisis in terms of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. So it's very important that the government listens to you now, that it really listens to all the good advice because at this point we're just responding to what's happening right now. We are not thinking about what will happen in the future, and in these measures there are many proposals that will affect the future, and so we need to think about what will be in the future because we already need to know what it is, what kind of rebalancing the government will have to propose soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197951	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197952	My debate was like this because five minutes is really little to explain and to explain each of these measures. I think some of them are making their own argument. But why was I talking about this debate? That's because I'm afraid, and I see it, that the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic don't care what we think or care about. There's one proof today. So today he's talking about this law on tracking. He talks, he says, well, you gave all the data to Facebook and Google, so why don't you give it to HDZ? Why don't you give us, too, even so they follow you, so let's follow you. And then the journalists tell them, but it wasn't adopted in the Parliament, today it's, it's a decision to go to another reading, then he says, and well, it's not today, it's going to be adopted next week. So here's how HDZ sees us as the most representative or legislative body in the country. And for that reason I appeal once again to HDZ and to the government, please include representatives of the opposition, listen to us, tell us, this is stupid, this is smart, but we are going together to look for solutions for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197953	Thank you. Next individual debate... The next individual debate is a debate by colleagues from Peja Grbina, here are some interventions. Here you go, buddy Grbin, here you go, thank you. Careful fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197954	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will concentrate on two things that matter to me personally, and I also believe that they are important to a large number of Croatian citizens, and one especially to people from the area I come from, from Istria and the entire Adriatic coast. The first thing is, of course, a moratorium on loans. Dear fellow Shuker, saying just before me, said the law proposed by the moratorium on loans was missing. My answer is, okay, but unlike the government's proposal, at least he exists. The government has not proposed such a missing proposal, the government has proposed nothing. The government has only left it to banks and bankers that, on the basis of their own decision, their own goodwill, their own profit assessment, solve the problem of postponing the loan with their debtors. And what does it look like in practice? A few people came to me, for example, one lady has a loan, she's been paying him off for a while, 3,000 kuna, exactly 2700 kn per month. She will have to pay 6,000 kuna additional interest for the six-month delay, 6,000 kuna. 1,000 kunas have calculated the monthly bank's interest. A gentleman contacted me last year who took a loan, also at war about 3,000 kuna per month, but because he took the loan last year at this point mostly pays interest, and the principal will come in line for some better days. He will postpone by 18,000 kuna for the six months he would have paid during that period of 6 months, so to get a delay in the payment of 18,000 kuna which he will definitely have to pay, to him, the interest for those 6 months exceeds the amount of 12,000 kuna. 12,000 kuna additional interest will be paid to the bank on his loan. And you know what the worst part of it still has to be solemnized by the credit contract annex, and as an amount of course, it will account for the full amount of credit, which means that it will still have 1,500 – 2,000 kuna. So he's going to be spending six months on 15 thousand kunas. For a delay in payment of 18,000 kuna, they will pay 15,000 kuna. With all due respect, it's neither moral nor fair, nor useful. The delay, without the simultaneous delay of payment of interest or the release of interest payments, is not intended. It is only temporary assistance to citizens and citizens who will pay you the same citizens and citizens extremely expensive one day when they start returning credit. And what else is going to happen? Given the duration of only 6 months, and it is evident that many will not return to the position of paying off the loan even longer after that since it only lasts 6 months it does not achieve real effects. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, if you want to help Croatian citizens and citizens, Croatian society and the Croatian economy you do not have to accept the SDP proposal, I support what my colleague Schuker said, make it comprehensive, refer it to the procedure, I will first, I will raise my hand to him first, but you must, you must suspend the course of interest during the delay, otherwise there is no purpose. The other problem I want to talk about is the renter's problem. Household owners do not pay income tax according to actual income, but pay it according to the flat-rate rate determined according to the number of bearings in the frameworks of the prescribed law. Last year we raised the amount of sheets, we made it possible for local self-government units to go up to 1,500 kuna instead of a maximum of 300 kuna earlier, I'm talking about income tax rate, to make it quite clear. So we increased the amount multiplely and it was introduced to pay for additional beds, which was not previously the case. At present, as far as I'm aware, most or almost all of the shoppers have been delayed. However, it is quite clear, it is clear that income from the tourist season in these three months, so 4, 5 and 6, and probably not even afterwards. The delay is fine for now, but please, before the period on which the delay is given, bring a measure of the write-off of the flat-rate income tax from the tenant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197955	Thank you. Stay here please, you have one replica. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197956	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, I had to intervene because my colleague Peja is a lawyer, and I wouldn't want to give him a lecture, but when you have a loan, then you get a payment plan. In the payment plan you have a monthly war that contains war and contains interest and a bank if you do not need to pay the principal, but you have to pay the corresponding part of the interest and that is what we all need to talk about why I said it wasn't just loans to Croatian citizens and businessmen that it has full, but such a figure when you bring it out it's totally incorrect because you're not talking about the same thing, it's not interest on funds that haven't been paid for 3 months. I repeat, when you raise a loan, when you enter a Leasing relationship or anything else you get a payment plan and it is clearly based on the law you know what it contains. So this information of yours is not correct, you got it wrong, and you unfortunately misread it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197957	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My esteemed colleague Shuker didn't get it from me, it was obtained by citizens from banks asking for a postponement of the loan. It was given to the citizens of the banks, the citizens got this bill, and the banks want to charge them for it. And by the way, I know very well that there's interest on the capital. If the loan payment started last year, then you and I know very well that the principal remained intact. And that six months of paying interest on that principal will be very difficult for whoever's taking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197959	Stay still here was still a replica of a fellow Laloveca.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197960	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms I see you mentioned the tenants, but certainly what should be noted is that the government has unfortunately not thought about those who are in the lease of business premises, which are now closed business spaces and when there is no, means the contract between the tenant and the tenant is now zero kuna. However, there is no clear answer from the tax administration or the Government whether they will be charged at market value for this lease, so all these people who rent business premises will receive a fee for either VAT or income tax. So here you're talking about one category, but I think this category, too, means that they're renting business premises so that in 3 or 6 months, VAT or income taxes don't come out, especially when the market doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197961	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague, but first of all, he would direct his own representatives to the government. Last week I spoke about the problem of renting a business space and there are two problems. The first is the one you addressed, which is the fact that many tenants have freed their tenants from the rent because they are aware that they need good, good people. At the same time, however, regardless of the amount not paid by the lease, the tax administration accounts for the value added tax, but also the income tax or profit tax, and that by assessment. It's not right, and I think the ministry should address it in the relevant tax laws. However, there is another problem, and I ask you to transfer this to the Minister of State Property, which is the problem that there is no possibility in the Law on the Hire of Business Space that there is no possibility that, any state, any local self-government of freedom of the tenants from the obligation to pay or to reduce that obligation. So... We have to change that law, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197963	Thank you. Comrade Matteljan, here you go, no need for intervention, colleague Grbin didn't touch the work space, but fine, if you want then... Well, fellow Mattelian, Mathelan. Damir Mateljan, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197964	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Secretary of State. The SDP shows itself in this crisis situation, acts as a responsible and serious party. On the one hand, this is affirmative, so we have accepted in two rounds a package of measures that the Government has sent to debate in this House, which concerns helping those who are at risk of spreading the COVID-19 virus. On the other hand, we're bringing, we're proposing our own measures that unfortunately come across something like this. So, uh, the government's self-interest, the self-interest of ruling MPs actually tells us what the government thinks about these measures, or what they think about the SDP and what they feel unfortunately about the opposition. The government when it also adopted that first set of measures, including the law that we had not debated, is the Civil Protection Act, saying, so on these measures, the Government has also urged the local state to also plant its financial backs and that it is also the local state that will adapt some of its measures to help all those, whether they are citizens or those companies that have died in this crisis. The local state has also done so in a way that it could, freeing the municipal fee, the communal contribution itself, paying the market price of kindergarten so that they can survive, however, what the government did not say, what is in some way not being said, and in this House I have not heard, let alone in the media, and that is that it is, in fact, with those first and other measures that the local state has just planted its back for reasons, because that financial burden on those measures that go as free entrepreneurs is just directed at the only tax, on the only real tax which is exclusively a tax belonging to local self-government, which is income tax. Without income tax, which accounts for almost 70% of all original incomes from local self-government, local self-government can survive this month to two days. Those who are with... Which so far seemed to us to be highly developed areas, won't last a month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is very important to tell people that this one will not have preschool education, that their infrastructure local will be able to disintegrate, that there will be no public lighting, that there will be no public transport, or people need to tell, that these measures will partially save the economy and that they will completely destroy the level of local self-government that we have achieved so far. It will simply be so if we don't come up with compensatory measures that no one talks about, and I understand why no one talks about compensatory measures because there is no money for compensation measures. So when we talk about planting the backs of local self-government, then there are things that don't have just financial weight, but also that organisational weight. The famous name around the pass. Finally, the public and the government have realized that there are over 300 units of local self-government that are simply not functionally whole and cannot function in a way that in that unit local self-government citizens can achieve both rights and all their therefore things they must do, such as, the most banal going to the bank, to the post office, to the pharmacy because you have municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have no banks, no post office, no pharmacy, no elementary school or anything else. And this depends not only on their size or their critical mass, but on their capacitation, both to people and to their financial capacitation. I don't know how much time I have left, so I'm going to figure it out. So usually after all these crises we like to go out with that sentence that's total flossula, which is, we're going to come out of this crisis even stronger and stronger. [[/Intruder: 15.]] We won't. So we'll get out of this crisis weaker and worse. But I hope at least So wiser that what concerns [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The local self-government will go into this reform of the local self-government reform. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197965	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Gordan Maras, colleague Maras, come in. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197966	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. I must admit that, I have, I feel strange in this hall and all this together when a man looks at you a little bit sorry and people who work here in the organization and people from HRT because you have a feeling that this is being done as a tower at the moment of the whole situation, or the system of decision-making in the Republic of Croatia, where we, as the Croatian Parliament, are moving from the hall to the hall from Šubićeva to INU, might now be able to go to another hall, in another town, I think that the institution as a Croatian Parliament must participate more and decide in the whole crisis that is happening in the Republic. So, if as a state we do not respect our institutions, if we have a meeting president who here says that the Rules of Procedure are 100% non-respectable, I think it is one of the most recent statements I have heard in the Croatian Parliament or on the other hand says about 129 votes, it sends you a message in fact that the Croatian Parliament as an institution at the moment seems to bother the HDZ, which is also seen from the overall behaviour, work, and at the end of the day and the situation which is now the government in this Chamber, where there is usually no one else. And on the other hand, discussing such important issues in these circumstances sounds pointless, because you see that you're proposing things, very serious things. Because when you propose that citizens do not pay for a year, they have a moratorium on loans it is a very serious thing for Croatian citizens, perhaps of crucial importance to survive the next year, which will be marked by crisis, loss of work, loss of income from tourism and all that is, then I think that such a topic is shown respect for both Croatian citizens and parliament to discuss under normal conditions in front of parliamentary representatives that this topic is accepted with respect and that we eventually come together to a certain solution. Because if the opposition supports the government's measures, so what is not logical is that instead of Vice-President Sanader giving lessons to opposition deputies he takes into account what the opposition is proposing. And the other thing when we suggest also one measure, means that when it comes to parents who at the moment have a problem with organising their lives in general how to educate children, how to stay at home, how to go to work, how to combine it all together, you can't use it in the most part of the grandparents' cases because if parents do, they're exposed, so they can pass on to their children, and then their parents can't look after their children because they can get infected too, so they're huge problems. And if, at that point, we suggest that we take a model by which one parent can stay at home and pay for sick leave, as the Health Insurance Act covers some other examples, so that's a very important topic. It deserves to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, it deserves to be heard, it deserves to be considered and perhaps accepted. We can't accept the situation where the secretary of state comes and says he's not authorized to talk about it here because like he's not the finance minister or not the prime minister, they're the only ones who can. Well, we don't live in a monarchy, where one person decides what can be done, what can't be done. Although it looks like some of them are just fine with you. We live in a parliamentary democracy where parliament plays its part and I am dissatisfied with how it all works now, and I must admit that I will talk about it in the future and when we return to the Hall of the Croatian Parliament and appeal here and to the people sitting in the presidency of the assembly, and I will certainly speak to the representative of our club to simply not allow such a situation. So we live in parliamentary democracy, we're responsible people, we can contribute to this situation as painlessly as possible for our fellow citizens. We don't agree with the statements he made before Mr. Pernar I think that this time we're fighting a crisis is good, that we're all satisfied that we have very few infected and deceased in relation to other countries and we support it and we will continue to support it if it works in a quality way and on the other hand if we can participate We want to participate, we want to enable solutions that will help Croatian citizens to get through this crisis as well as we can and the more painlessly we can not do anything to get Croatian citizens to live normally as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197967	Stay here, please. We have two replicas. He's my first colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197968	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I also think that measures and what the government is doing at this point are good and that it gives good results, and we, with our SDP, as a constructive opposition with our proposals just want it to be better, especially with this third package of measures. We are thinking about the time that comes after this health crisis, meaning in a few months, because we, with our package of measures, have included exactly those citizens that the Government has not included in its activities so far. And that's why I think we should maybe listen a little bit more. And as for the functioning and work of the assembly, I agree with you and I will talk about it all the time and keep warning about it and I want once again here to underline the line that these 15 days, 20 as far as we're not in the building of the Croatian Parliament, but in the basement of the INE there are no days we joined in the order that we have the same rules. So, not to disrespect the Rules of Procedure, but there are no agreements, because today it's worth one thing, tomorrow it's worth something else, then the day after tomorrow it's worth the third, then one chairman respects one rule, the other, and that's not good. We have a Rules of Procedure which is a sacred letter to us in all situations, if anything needs to be changed, then we need to change the Rules of Procedure and we all need to adapt to that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197969	Okay, thank you, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197970	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. I think that if we function as a rule or not, by 100% of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djujic has taken 1% of the time limit on the replica, so anyone can choose for themselves if the rules don't apply to everyone. And on this side, I ask you to pass it on to the President of the Croatian Parliament that we want to function normally and that all of this together is quite nothing and that in some way Croatian citizens deserve to do it in some normal conditions, to transfer their problems, to try to solve their problems and to contribute together to this crisis as soon as possible and to allow Croatian citizens to have confidence in the institutions that represent them. The message that none sits here except Mr. Shucker of HDZ MPs is a message that automatically denys the call on joint action by HDZ [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely visible from what's going on here. [[Intruder: Next replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.]] So... HDZ with a figure in its pocket calls all opposition parties... [[/Intruder: Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197971	Comrade Maras, please. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197972	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I absolutely agree with you in your qualifications that parliament should behave in crisis situations. For example, the Hungarians had a very good solution before this happened, namely that Orban received such broad powers. According to their Constitution, in the event of an emergency, parliament is constantly sitting, no one can disband it and every 15 days the government should submit a report to Parliament which, on the basis of this report, then extends or reduces, or extends the state of emergency. The role of Parliament here should be crucial precisely because of what we talked about. Some measures are imperfect and just in the discussion with more ideas and from multiple sides and more angles, we can come up with quality solutions. One of these is the staying of one parent at home and because of small children and because of the risk of transmission of infections, so we also protect the health of the population, protect jobs because the state jumps in where it can and we try to help as much as possible. Our citizens to adapt to the new creation [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a situation. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Hajdukovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197973	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197974	Thank you. I absolutely agree with you, and I think that in this situation the most we could do is help us, given that hundreds of citizens who share their problems with us every day are talking to us. But I ask you, if we are calling for joint action and unity, where is Jandrokovic now? Where's Branko Bacic? Where are all these HDZ people who need to discuss with us the proposals that help Croatian citizens? Di, where's Ante Sanader who called the opposition SDP yesterday if he hadn't suggested anything constructive? Where are these people, why aren't they taking part here with us in this debate? Why don't they say if our proposal is good or bad? Can it or cannot it be applied? Which is why it does not allow Croatian citizens to go peacefully to Easter and not think about paying off their loans and not leave them at the mercy of their banks. Believe me, if we don't set the rules the way To be for all [[Intruder: Time.]] identically, that people know transparently what their right is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Which is what it isn't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Banks will do so in his arrangement. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] I think that It's not correct and yes [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] We should put it that way. [[Intruder: Comrade Hajdukovic, please prepare for discussion.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197975	Thank you. Please, intervention, colleague Hajdukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Here you are Mr. Hajdukovic, please, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. Here you are, colleague Hajdukovic.]] Well, unfortunately, this crisis has shown how unprepared we are for these situations in every sense. In economics, I would dare say politically, which, we are witnessing right now, organisational, logistics, social, etc., etc. Let's just take the farm. This crisis has shown our agricultural production on its knees, which is simply a victim of many years of bad policy, poor direction, non-strategic thinking. That's right, so unfortunately we're victims and in a political sense because we don't have enough culture politically to listen to everything, all the suggestions, all the problems on the table and try to deal with these problems together. I fear that HDZ's unity is only, that is, their calls for unity are only when it suits them and that their perception of community and consensus is based on "that is what you can support us, we allow you to support us". But it's not the point, it's not the purpose of parliamentary democracy. Just because there are more of us from different parts of Croatia, from different segments of life in Croatia, we can give better suggestions, we can warn of some of the problems that perhaps the Government or we as legislators have initially missed and may warn of some things that may later have serious repercusions. One of them is definitely paying off citizens' loans. Why? Many were financially planning differently, things that are unfortunately very difficult, since this epidemic, I read in one medium that about a thousand people get fired daily. If that's true, it's a terrible piece of information. In the meantime, there was also an earthquake in Zagreb, so many families in Zagreb are exposed to an additional unplanned cost of housing adaptation, if they were lucky that their apartments were still useful. For all these people, the postponement of payments, or the moratorium on the payment of loans per year, will mean little space for, to catch air, to be financially consolidated and to continue to pay their commitments. Without that beginning, I'm afraid it'll be very difficult for them, that many won't be able to repay their debts, many will lose their jobs in the meantime, we don't know how further the pandemic situation will move, as far as the economy is concerned, so we're trying to solve this equation with all the unknowns so that at least one acquaintance can be introduced into it. Also, no one has mentioned seasonal employees except for our measures so far, the 3rd package of measures. Or permanent, so-called. Permanent season. There are slightly less than 6 thousand in Croatia. These are people who, during the season, make about 6 to 7 months enough to survive the whole year and thus service their debts and all the other financial obligations they have. Since nothing's happened since the season, we need to think about protecting these exactly, slightly less than 6,000 people. If we're counting on it to be 6,000 families, then you can imagine how much repercussion could be if we don't adequately protect them. Also, people who have been fired as a consequence of the crown will be a major problem or we need to help them and take care of them, help them to stop their feet and serve them in their short - term financial obligations if God gives them no credit. Also, no one mentions employees who are at the Bureau who have no compensation. What's the number of people like that? So they have no right to any compensation for various reasons, which now because of a crisis that will become and grow into an economic crisis have no right and have no perspective of finding a job soon. It's the same segment of people we have to worry about and who we have to help. Therefore, as I have said, our measures may not be perfect, neither are the government's measures, but I believe that with one different approach, in a broader dialogue and in a dialogue with more respect, above all, from the ruling to the opposition, there would be much more quality proposals. Because I am afraid that these government proposals will need to be corrected more than once, that they will be subject to quite frequent changes and that this will create additional uncertainty among citizens but also in the economy because of the constant changes in market conditions, whether labour, whether the economy, or markets in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197977	Please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197978	My colleague Hajdukovic and I, with this proposal, are essentially concerned about citizens who have not yet felt this crisis. So, you said yourself when this health problem goes down for, we hope as soon as possible that a part of the people except for those who are unemployed and who live on the edge of poverty and those who stood up to yesterday will feel this crisis very well. And now let's say I set an example, today at the 2nd month of this year the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was about 6,500 kuna, I'm going to stick to those figures. So someone who had 6,500 kuna before this pandemic, took out a loan, planned his own life, got hit by this situation, and, say, most employers put these workers on a minimum or these 4,000 kuna due to government measures. So these workers lost 2,000, 2,500 kuna, and they'll only feel that later. This moratorium on loans means a lot to them, and it makes the situation much easier because other than preserving jobs, we encourage and spending citizens right now. in this way that these funds can be spent. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197979	Thank you, colleague Giujic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197980	I agree, fellow Djujic, that the crisis will end today, the consequences will be great and long-term. So we can't predict how many more people will lose their jobs, unfortunately, how much pay cuts, purchasing power, if it comes to question and swearing courses, it's also going to be a big problem. So there's a lot of problems waiting for us. But the same thing that's important for us to point out when we talk about our moratorium law, I think it's that those who have a good financial situation don't have to use this law. So those who have regular incomes, which will continue to have regular incomes, can choose to continue to service their debts to banks. That way, they won't be cut off as far as the payment plan or the end of their commitment to the bank is concerned, as they planned, but unfortunately I'm afraid they'll be in your minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197981	Thank you. I would like a little intervention and an individual debate from colleague Karolina Leaković. Here you go. Last reported debate, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, if we are in a crisis without precedent, and we are in the midst of the worst yet to come, and then, at least economically, then from the government and the political and economic elite as residents, it is certain that we have the right to expect solutions that will benefit the largest number of people. And these people who live on their work, not on capital, not on rent, not on inheritance, not on the accumulated, but on people, and these are the ones that live in Croatia the most, in fact, on their fair salary regardless of whether it is earned in trade, in the food industry, in transport, in services, in schools, in the hospital or in the office. If we work indefinitely on a particular one, then our contracts are extended every, every few months, maybe not always in accordance with the law, and we know that there are such situations too. He knew that the government declaredly insists on community, it's not a new word discovered, but it seems to me that for this government, a new word has been discovered, or one that is very often in the use of last weeks of solidarity. We're saying that the health crisis, or the government, is saying that we need to overcome the health crisis with common forces, appeal to the responsibility of each and every one of us, and I can certainly agree with that and I can support it. Of course, if we are not deprived of human rights in this government’s once unnecessarily restrictive decisions and, of course, if we are not deliberately deceived and tried to hide some information. We know that we have recently had such a case with the purchase of medical equipment, and we have had one case with a secret meeting in the government between the prime minister, the culture minister and the editor-in-chief of several media houses on which, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not want to present details and did not answer any questions about the meeting. The public and journalists must never, nor in this situation, remain deprived of the answers to questions about how decisions are made, why the main editors of some media houses were invited to a meeting in the government and what they were promised, to report on government measures that they would receive in return. So, unlike this solidarity when it comes to the health crisis and the epidemiological measures, when it comes to economics, I think it's hard to agree that we're all on the same boat, that it's the same for all of us, that the crisis on all of us is the same, that we all have to tighten the belt, that either we're all gonna challenge and save private entrepreneurs and their property, or we're all going to fail, and that it's not the time to question each other, and it's especially not the time to insist on working rights, on collective contracts, on collective agreements, on coefficients, says cut yourself immediately and now without any renunciation, etc., in other words socialize or share private losses, and we don't touch private profits. It has already been said today on several occasions that we have not seen how the banks have reacted in this crisis whether they have submitted part of the burden. They did not bear part of the burden, however, we saw that the owners of private companies better sent their workers and most of their workers to the stock market immediately, although perhaps they should not have done so. If we ever find out, so what is the number of those who immediately sent workers to the stock market and before measures, we will, of course, ask the Ministry of Labour and HZZ. We know there's no write-off for citizens, no lifting unnecessary banking obligations, no abandonment of performances, no appraisals. We still haven't actually made a decision about parents who care for children who don't go to school and kindergarten to determine what SDP is looking for today. We also did not make a decision that even now unemployed who have worked less than 9 months in the past 24 months have the right to compensation, this should certainly be taken into account. And there are a lot of problems that people warn us about, so I will take advantage of the opportunity with us of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health to warn him of a letter of 17 March which she sent to the Ministry, directed the Croatian Association for Rare Diseases, which warns of a special situation involving employees who are at the same time patients with autoimmune diseases, parents of chronically ill children who raise their voices and warn that they have to work, and they are very exposed to the group, so I call on the ministry to take care of their health. Ideas for the State to be a cornerstone of economic policy, economic activity to use this crisis to change the dominant political economic paradigm, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, we have yet to hear and I appeal in this regard. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197983	Thank you. And my last debate with my colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197984	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last few weeks a paradigm of relations with state institutions has changed. The rule so far is to say so to the public or most citizens in some vague situation between institutions and individuals as a rule stood aside from individuals. And lately, in this vague situation between individuals and institutions, they tend to side with the institution especially if it's the police about healthcare professionals or about someone from these now we call it the more popular service represented by the state. It is good when institutions gain greater trust from citizens, but it is never good to give non-critical trust to anyone, to either individual or to institutions. Therefore, they should always be questioned and treated critically. One of the equative examples was the police's conduct in the case of two citizens in Split who wanted to take a walk, and then there was, I would say training, unnecessary training of strictness against individuals, and there was a journalist there and it became generally known. We have then a reverse case, so in front of a church also in Split police showed much more tolerance, patience towards a priest who invited people to mass, and when the officers came to warn them that it was a violation of the headquarters's recommendations then he fell into an argument with a policeman that a police officer had finally had to interpret something from a religion, it was perhaps excessive tolerance, but somewhere between this situation the increased power of the institution I would say in relation to the rights of the individual should find a good balance. This is why it is good for us to talk about this in the Croatian Parliament live at the thematic session of the Committee on Human Rights. So, on one portal came an article about what all citizens ask the attorney general, I wouldn't say that it was an explanation of litigation with state institutions, it was really about certain individual problems of life that people came across because of this epidemic and the rapid ones, but when the measures were faster then they weren't enough, there wasn't enough thought about possible side effects that I believe had time to think about them further to be avoided. What do all the citizens actually write to the D.A.? So most often it's about people who got fired, and for various reasons they can't exercise their rights as unemployed people. Then it is about students who, because of their inability to work during the epidemic, cannot be supported and asked the competent authorities to assist students in the form of a delay in the payment of tuition. Afterwards, citizens have problems communicating with HZZ, and related to the exercise of the right for the unemployed. Most often they fail to obtain feedback on who is processing or their demands and fail to exercise rights. They are particularly numerous citizens who have jobs but who fail to work because of their obligations to young children in circumstances where kindergartens and schools are closed, then they do not know how to take care of children when they have to work again because of the end of their vacation and sick leave, then they state that despite their open-label care, employers call them to return to work, then others report that the employer determines 7-day work without rest despite the care of underage children, and then ask that the employer asks them to work even though he has not provided them with protections such as masks and gloves, then the worker reported whose employer requests to come to work personally even though he does not live in a city where he works and depends on public transportation and can't de facto come. The employers are also reporting. And that's to say, someone hired two seasons, but now he doesn't know what to do with them and their compensation, and in the end we have cases because of these passes, so he can't worry, come to visit a child living in another municipality, and he doesn't get a pass. Retired people who can't go to a bank, to a pharmacy, etc., or to a post office to raise a pension because they don't have a post office. And all these problems, I'm here, as long as I have time to count, require reaction, require reaction. an institution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197985	First, it's Mrs. Crescent. Buric, she can have an intervention at any moment, please, then colleague Schuker. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197986	Thank you. Thank you so much, Vice President HS. So, very briefly. We are here today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 5 state secretaries from 5 different ministries, now the two of us have delivered an oral opinion on the SDP package and by the fact that we were 5 out of 5 different ministries, I think it's a very clear message of respect for the promoter and I'm not saying it at all that I would be pathetic but very honest and open. Health is not everything, however, all without health is absolutely nothing and it is a saying that is more than ever proved true today. What I am also glad is that today most are in a direct or indirect way, regardless of what political groups came from, that parliamentary representatives and MPs have said that this double crisis that we are facing is strategically well-led and that we have good governance. Moreover, this is what we are talking about today, which is a package of measures, which, which is unlegislative, this government, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, has provided only so far 65 billion kuna and what I must mention, is that it is neither the first nor the last package of measures. You know that yourself. - Mrs. Crescent. Leakovic asked a question about people who had lost their jobs in this crisis, and that is why we are talking about the number of about 13,000 people, newly unemployed, which is why the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, or the executive body of the Croatian Employment Service yesterday, included in the criteria for obtaining support for the preservation of jobs, the possibility that employers who report to this support should these people return to work, that they can get that support for them too, so we are talking about support from 4 thousand kuna. There he is. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197987	Stay, you have one more replica, please. Thank you very much. [[- Yeah, good.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk. [[Intruder: Please.]] Thank you. So then, no, no, wait, wait, there's another line, don't leave yet, there's a colleague named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197988	Thank you. State Secretary. It's a good-looking jump, "Health isn't everything, but without health, we're nothing." Did I quote correctly? [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] The saying, it's more to me, it's to be honest, it's more to me to jump. [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] But health protection can't be a front for anything to be done. You can't do everything. So, you need to balance between health, among other segments of life, and you know what our Constitution says, what's everything? Thus, even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the state, the right to life, to ban torture, cruel and humiliating treatment and punishment, thoughts, freedom of mind, conscience, and religion cannot be limited. That's all. So, I agree on the importance of what you've said, but I'm not in favour of such rhetoric justifying possible restrictions on everything and everything for health, but I like the saying, now it's not, it's good, but it's not good for political game. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197989	Here, answer, secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197990	Thank you, Honorable Representative Bauk. So I repeat again. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to preserve health, protect health, on the other hand, preserve jobs, stand behind all Croatian entrepreneurs and workers and try and help and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197991	Thank you, too. Now my colleague Schuker is on behalf of the MPs' club final. I'm just asking for my colleagues' intervention. Thank you. How? I don't doubt you, just what I'm stressing. Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197992	Thank you very much. Well, I answered about three things. The first was once in the Croatian Parliament to have mutual respect among MPs and respect for what the MPs wanted to say. Unfortunately, however, those who spoke most today about how there are no MPs in the Assembly, now there are none in the assembly. There are four of us left. The other thing I wanted to say, I'm honest, but really this is what I tell you out of the soul, after all, and my debate was like this, I expected that colleagues from the SDP who have been reported for discussion each by one or two laws will try to explain the legal proposals to us, and with this, a couple of colleagues who have mentioned certain things, we haven't heard anything. We heard attacks on the government. This is what the Government likes, so eventually on the President of the Parliament, on this, on that, etc., I think today was a debate to fight, not to conflict, to oppose opinions and to think about how to solve this crisis. And lastly, yesterday, I just got this information, the EU Commission confirmed HBOR's portfolio loan scheme for liquidity, so much so that I'm going to mention again and apostrophe my colleague Lalovec, the two of us, no matter what we're from different clubs, are saying that at this point we need to secure funds from all possible sources, and this is just another confirmation that the government is working on all fronts. Some things can be spoken publicly, and some things can be spoken of only when they happen. It is a good thing that anyone who has any knowledge of professional everyday life as a proposal in the Croatian Parliament, but look at colleagues and colleagues, maximum respect and according to this institution was that the colleagues from the club who proposed this legislative proposal would be more present in this debate, it would simply point to the seriousness of this proposal, this is not reading any lesson, but when you give the political rival a chance for creamworth then it would be a shame not to take advantage of it. And how seriously you think about these suggestions of yours is best shown by those who spoke of them, I say honor with exceptions, and these exceptions remain now and in the assembly, the best shows how many people are left in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197993	Thank you, too. My colleague Bauk, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is final, and I apologize on behalf of the Proposer, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Proposer 10, 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197994	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Shuker, Honored Representative Hajdukovic, Honored representative Leakovic, the esteemed vice president, then what you should welcome yourself to, I thank you. So, first of all, the SDP Club didn't choose the time of the debate, we got it this afternoon, we could discuss it tomorrow morning, it might end something more, it might be a little more media attention, but the debate is in line with 90% of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, these 10% of what the president of the day said to adapt it to the situation. We think it was our responsibility to propose a package of measures to help citizens in the first place because some of these proposals can happen in a very similar way from the government in the next month, it can happen. Well, then we'll have what you just said about creamworth, and we'll be able to say we told you or we suggested. And I don't see that that's some big problem, it's a political competition in these circumstances of the epidemic. So when a normal boxing situation without gloves is put on a little thicker gloves and watch every word, and sometimes some of our colleagues still fail to resist calling to cross that fine line between this constructive community that we witness and regular situations. So I would, however, be encouraged by criticism from fellow Shucker once again, briefly said what our proposals were, so 10 measures to help citizens affected by the pandemic. First fee of at least 4,000 kuna per month in the next 3 months for unemployed people who were fired. Then a fee of half a minimum salary per month or 1,625 kuna for the unemployed on the stock market and do not receive any compensation. Permanent seasons fee at a minimum salary of 3,250 kuna per month, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for social assistance users, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for pensioners with small pensions as well as for all persons below the income censorship, a cancellation of the RTV subscription for pensioners with small pensions and social assistance users. Subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna per month for renting the apartment for all of the most affected groups. Terminate the execution and increase the amount of wages exempt from the performance, issue of bank cards for blocked citizens for the on-line transaction, abolishing charges on-line transaction as in crisis conditions no physical contact. I don't think I've even listed all these suggestions. I believe that we will also get a written statement from the government before voting on our proposals, so that, since they have been proposed last week, and I can know the work and functioning of the government agree that maybe there was not enough time to get the government's written statement, but until the vote, since we now have a week's break, we can really get the government's written statement on our bill proposals, too, so that the foundation of them and the foundation of the government's work in the future would allow us to see how much these arguments have been justified, and how much they were merely the fruit of us proposing something without the government's proposal. It's the same thing in political life that's possible. I also believe that the assembly will find time to discuss perhaps in a united debate, such as today, proposals from other promoters, not only the SDP Club, but also other proposings, and that we will have to decide whether we are still in this situation in the constructive community as it is said, but it is not a good way not to accept any proposal, or any amendment of the opposition. Then indeed, as counterpart Maras said, we may be serving as a tower, and at the same time the bodies that make decisions are especially spared, excluded from criticism, the Maltas do not welcome any criticism against them on the knife as if they were protected from criticism or as if I were going to say it without a problem, holy cows, so there are no sacred cows in democracy. But what matters is that their decisions should be implemented and respected, but it is allowed and desirable if they are not good critics because they have also created certain problems for citizens who may still be less than the problems that have been spared by the citizens, for example, I think most of all about preventing the spread of the infection. I thank again everyone who participated, thank the state secretaries from all five ministries, especially my colleague Buric and colleagues from the health ministry who was Plazonic, where he was a representative in the previous assembly of the parliament, but I was afraid not to make a mistake, who remained until the end and representatives, especially colleagues Suker who stayed until the end. I hope that, on our return to the Croatian Parliament, we will continue with the normal dynamics of the debate, that the Parliament will remain a place of control of the government and to prevent the arbitrary conduct of a body that is not good when they have no control and that I believe that other colleagues, whether they are from a position or opposition, will contribute. So, I think that in Croatia, we have long fought for democracy so that only so democratic institutions would now deprive their constitutional powers. Some laws could be passed today by agreement and by a two-thirds majority, but the Constitutional Court will then discuss it well, and for everything else we see next week in the new debate, in the new confrontations of opinions, I believe in new constructive decisions that citizens will be able to cope with this crisis as easily as possible. It will be easy if this lasts for two months, but if it lasts longer then the end of the epidemic will sooner be declared by the Minister of Finance than the Minister of Health because suddenly our alternative will die from hunger or from the crown of the virus becoming a general alternative. Therefore, we can endure for some time, but we also need to think about the scenarios of how to live in co-existence with the coronary virus with the least consequences for society, for citizens, for the economy and for the way we're used to living until the middle of the 3rd month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197995	Thank you. That concludes the debate on a set of ten laws, we'll vote on them when the conditions are met. Another information for counterpart Leaković, a colleague of Hajdukovic, a colleague of Shuker and a colleague of Bauk, the work of the Parliament continues on Wednesday 15th April at 9.30 p.m. on Mark's square with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Coastal Research Security, Carbon Exploitation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 821. Thank you very much and the secretary of state for being here. I wish everyone a happy Easter. Goodbye. SESSION DISCONTINUED
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197996	Final draft law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 888., the promoter is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, which the Government does not accept. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the law has not received the required number of votes has not been passed. 77 is against, 37 for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197997	Let's move on to the agenda. We have already agreed to conduct a joint discussion on the set of 6 laws proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club and one joint SDP representative's club and representative Goran Aleksic's team, and on three proposals for a conclusion submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, these are: - Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the Law on Contribution, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal for the Act on the Law on Obligors, First and Second Amendments, - Final Proposal for the Law on the Complementary of the Law on the Morals, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal of the Law on Obligations, the Emergency Act on the Taxes, the Second Amendments of the Act, the Second Amendments, the Second Amendment of the Act, the Act on the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Protection of the Act, the Law on the Act, the Second Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Rec, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Protection of the Law on the First, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the First, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law on the Law of the First, the First, the Law on the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the First, the Law on the Law on the Law, the Law of the Law, the Law, the Law, the Law of the First Act, the Law, on the Law on the Law of the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law, the Law, the First Act, the Law, the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on the Working of the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice. The government didn't deliver an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197998	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning, we warned a month and a half ago about the effects of the crisis caused by the coronary virus. Three weeks ago, we went out with our first package with more than 15 measures to help citizens and preserve jobs. Our measures were not then adopted by the government. Since the first government measures that followed only by our measures were too focused on prolongation, on delays, and they were not enough help for entrepreneurs, nor their employees, and time was leaking, the SDP sent our second package of more than 10 laws to save the economy and jobs, which we are unfortunately considering today. The second package comes today after voting on the government's package, shows in fact only demeaning and opposition, but also citizens, especially those citizens who have lost their jobs in the last two weeks due to late government reactions, over 20,000 of them as well as those citizens who at this point fear losing their jobs. Further demeaning comes precisely because the government was not even ready to manifest itself on this proposal. This only shows the relationship that currently exists in Croatia with all those who are trying to constructively help their proposals the poorest, most endangered, unemployed and other most vulnerable groups of citizens who are going through a severe crisis in Croatia thanks to the coronary virus. It is precisely because of a late reaction from the Government that the SDP proposed in the second package a write-off, not just a postponement of taxes and contributions, and we have suggested that we exempt the payment of profit tax for all entrepreneurs because this is not a time in which they can simply or should credit the state. Secondly, we have proposed the release from the payment of the flat-rate tax for craftsmen and small tenants due to special circumstances because they are closed due to the decision of the headquarters and we have proposed to write down 100% of the contributions for salaries to employees during the duration of the crisis simply so that they can help these people because they are closed by the decision of the headquarters due to the crown of the virus. After a very high public pressure, after we had pushed in the SDP for the past three weeks, offered to the Croatian public, and also to the Croatian government to help solve these problems in trying to preserve jobs, after pushing them to move faster, to simply do more in the direction of protection and employers, but also jobs, only one step was taken to help the economy. Therefore, the proposals for a write-down of taxes and contributions were accepted. But now you need at this specific moment of help right now to the citizens, to do what is not done. Help those most vulnerable, workers, but also unemployed, parents who stay with children at home, but also those workers who stay at home alone in self-insulation, as well as those on the first line of defense against the epidemic. Therefore, the SDP continues to insist on its second package of laws to help preserve jobs and therefore we still feel that our proposals are needed at this point. It is necessary to increase the basis for compensation for self-insulation workers to the average salary level because this fee of 2100 kuna is simply too small for a man's life. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide paid leave to at least one parent who spends time at home with his child under 12 years of age, especially since in this situation the parent is particularly affected at work. It is also necessary to increase the amount of non-taxable payments to help employers in particularly sensitive activities in the root of the crisis to reward their workers, especially those now on the first line of defence against the epidemic and helping Croatian citizens not to lack anything, so that they can reward traders, so that they can reward pharmacists, drivers, workers and logistics workers, as well as security guards, those whose simple work in these difficult times has not stopped but is even more pronounced. 4. it would be responsible to enable workers who are at risk of a job due to the crisis to pay 75% of the salary, up to a maximum of 5,100 kuna, it is a small cost to the state, and it is certainly a guarantee of a much better life for those people who cannot work in these conditions. And they can't work primarily on sectors for which Croatia's GDP depends most, it's tourism and hospitality. Tourism reminds me that it accounts for over 20% of our GDP, when tourism and hospitality are at stake in the government in this segment has done absolutely nothing, practically nothing but petty cosmetic and technical changes. We recall that the SDP has proposed to abolish the obligation to pay the flat-rate tax for small tenants, we have also proposed to abolish the obligation to pay advances for artisan craftsmen and to abolish certain parafiscal duties including the flat-rate amount of tourist tax and membership fee to the tourist community during the crisis. And I remind you that we will continue to insist that VAT in tourism and catering goes to 5% especially at this time of crisis, as we today insist that VAT on food delivery goes to 0% because we believe that in these difficult times, especially in the circumstances of the crisis when people order delivery needs to act on one hand and to reduce prices, but also to reduce taxes to those who have suffered the most damages due to the crisis, and these are the caterers. At a time of crisis, we must be solid, especially us politicians who represent citizens, especially those who are most affected by this crisis and who have lost their jobs or gone to a minimum. We therefore propose that for the next three months, parliamentary representatives and other state officials, other than those on the first line of defence against the virus, work for a minimumer to solidarity with a number of citizens who will be affected by this crisis, and unfortunately more and more in Croatia. 70,000 social assistance users, 240,000 blocked, more than 400,000 citizens living below the poverty threshold of 1,940 kuna, mostly part of the pensioners. In just two weeks of the crisis primarily due to a late government reaction, over 20,000 workers are jobless, another 400,000 fear for losing their jobs. For 5,500 permanent seasons and over that number as well as for more than 100,000 people registered on the stock market, and now they are not receiving any compensation for the simple prospect of employment is almost completely destroyed due to the crisis and they need help. So, it's over a million of the most vulnerable who can't pay the directors soon, can't pay the rent for the apartment, can't pay the loans. It is already clear that this crisis will take, in particular, a recovery from the crisis, so that we insist in the SDP that it is necessary to secure the moratorium on loans for a year, not just three months, and in a way that the interest is calculated in order to ensure on one hand the safety of entrepreneurs to continue their business, but in order to make them the most important thing, to ensure that citizens continue their normal lives without fear and uncertainty. It is necessary at this point to suspend and tighten interest, we have also suggested and is in this set of laws to help the economy and preserve jobs. So I want to say, in the SDP, we will continue to insist on the moratorium, on paying off loans for a year, but we will also insist on our third package of measures to help the citizens we presented the other day, which includes. First, a fee of 4,000 kuna per month in the next three months for unemployed people who were fired because of the root crisis, thanks to a late reaction from the government, a protection supplement of 750 kuna per month for all users of social assistance, etc. The minimum fee guaranteed is 70,000, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for all those who have income below the poverty threshold, so it's between 350 and 400,000 people below the threshold of 1,940 kuna per person for the most part of the pensioners, so these are pensioners with small pensions. We will insist on a fee of half the minimum wage, i.e. $1,625 per month for the unemployed currently on the stock market, who do not receive any remuneration and whose chance of employment has been completely destroyed due to the crisis, we will insist on continuing seasons at a minimum wage of 3,250 kuna per month of them 5,500, simply people have to live on something. Also, we propose to abolish the RTTV subscription precisely for these most affected layers of citizens, as well as a subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna renting the apartment for these mentioned categories, of course for people who are hired. What I would particularly like to put an emphasis on, I would like to stress that our legal proposals to be referred to in the procedure will require a suspension of the performance and an increase in the amount of pay free of charge, as well as the issue of bank cards blocked with a certain spending limit and the abolition of transactions i.e. compensation for transactions in online payments simply so that under the conditions of the crisis there will be no physical contact. We believe that these measures are very concrete, that they are implemented and that they should act quickly to help the most vulnerable groups of citizens, unemployed, pensioners, permanent seasons, social assistance users. I call on the government to consider them and to respect them as she has already complied with some of our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u197999	Thank you. Continuing, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198000	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would only briefly comment on the moratorium law on the loans of debtors why it matters. In his statement, the CNB made public, i.e. according to the recommendations of the European Central Bank or the European Banking Supervisory Mechanism in Frankfurt, it said for a year that you have a framework for all business entities and citizens not to go to... claims. In other words, what does that mean? The CNB, or regulator, has already given a year to all business banks how to treat claims in their books, which means that banks already have the opportunity to do so. What does it matter? If this crisis, we all know, and we're aware that it can't end in three months, if the banks start to collect claims after three months, but now we have a liquidity problem, they'll simply suck all the money out of the system. If businesses and citizens come to them after three months, all these amounts, simply when the economy needs to be returned if they are bank priorities they will simply suck all the money out of the system if they have insurance instruments, they can charge much better from the state, they can be charged sooner than the state. And that's why it's important to calm down if we're saving the economic system now, now we're saving the economy of the Republic of Croatia. After three months, banks cannot be a priority over the state and cannot be a priority over other suppliers. And that's why it's important, and all the legal mechanisms have to be very good at controlling the whole process now. And here's why our intensity was to go with this moratorium for a year, only to those who are in liquid problems, only to those citizens who are at a minimum and only to those who are at risk, that they are simply given the opportunity to cope in that particular period of time. But what I'm warning you all the time is that it's simply our biggest fear of liquidity, liquidity or the insolvency of the system, that the system doesn't crack in the 6th month, is that we won't be able to get foreign exchanges about tourism and that simply when the economy starts to turn to make priority to suppliers and to pay bills, and only later will the banks that have the biggest capital and later come to the state that when the economy starts and collects their claims. Here's what I'd like to ask my colleague, Alexic, if that's what we agreed on for the last words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198001	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198002	I thank the SDP first of all for inviting me to propose with them the Moratorium on Loans Act, as this is my area of action since the beginning of the Croatian Parliament of the Bank, credit institutions, debts. I also note that it is very good that certain measures of force are also proposed in this third package, it will be proposed that we already proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia deblocking accounts, bans on enforcement, cards to everyone for free, free Internet banking, all this is important in these moments to enable citizens. The SNAGA party has proposed 16 measures in total, but I would now say something more about these moratories because it is the subject of exposure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has announced as one of the measures of the moratorium on the payment of the loan claim, as announced by the government of the Republic of Croatia, however, the government has not proposed a binding measure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has obviously discussed this with banks because banks have offered moratories to citizens, but these moratories include the calculation of interest, and these interest rates reach the day the moratorium ceases to operate and then they are deployed to wars or whatever bank it intends to negotiate with its debtors. It's not a moratorium. Such a moratorium of banks approve consumers, businesses, anyone and in a normal situation, therefore it is not a moratorium that must be made possible in the current crisis situation. In the current crisis situation, a moratorium must be allowed to collect claims from loans without interest and without any other charges being charged. If the moratorium lasts a year, and it should take a year, because the crisis will not stop the day the virus stops working, but the crisis will continue, because we will all be in the most citizens' problems, businesses less because they will start working, which is why the measure needs to be extended for a year. And it is easy to reduce the measure in the meantime if there is a better situation between citizens and businesses. Croatian banks can handle this measure without a problem. Croatian banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is excess liquidity. What does that mean? This means that they have 34 billion kunas of their own money that they can do whatever they want to do because they are not obliged to account for that money to anyone. And these 10 billion I said now seem to have fired the CNB in the last tranche another number of billions, so their liquidity is even greater than, that excess liquidity is even more than 34 billion kuna. Therefore, the banks must wait for the payment, and in addition the banks are obliged to the Croatian citizens who have robbed for the course of the franc, for the payment of interest that was illegal for a total of 20 billion kuna, hence those banks that are due to all of us, and perhaps for those of you who are here with me now, perhaps some of you banks owe us, and the banks they owe us should not now be charged in the annuity crisis. What's still missing, and what we haven't covered by the law is the licking, so the licking should be covered by the moratorium, it's primarily important for those companies that deal with transport, so they've got to get to licking buses, some other means of transport or the means of working in agriculture, so it's not working for them now, they need to be given a lysing moratorium because they don't fit at this time. So there are a series of measures still missing, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider this bill that we have put into the SDP procedure and I as Parliament's representative of the SNAGA party. I hope you will also consider this new package of measures mentioned by my colleague Bernardic, about cards, about unblocking citizens, about breaking up accounts, about free Internet banking. I don't think there's gonna be a problem with that, the government hasn't done it yet, but I don't think the government will have a problem with that, and that if the government doesn't even accept this proposal, they're going to prepare their proposal the way the government thinks it's best and they're going to put it in the process within about 7 to 10 days. Here's thank you for listening very carefully to what I've put forward and I hope you'll accept all of it in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198003	Thank you to Reverend Goran Aleksic. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinovic has a request for the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198004	... in accordance with Article. 248. The Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work seek a five-minute break in front of the club Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to warn the citizens and here present representatives of the complexity, the additional complexity of this economic situation in Croatia for which this second round of measures will not be sufficient today. In that sense, and thus I want to change Croatia constructively to this proposal for a package of measures that is now being discussed, I would like to draw particular attention to the second pension pillar. I'm looking for and I suggest, respected citizens, that they all be deposited in another pension column frozen during the crisis. Why? Because every month, on average, about 500 million kuna is paid into the second pension column, which is about 6 billion kuna a year. Now imagine how much it would mean, respected citizens, 500 million kunas every month during the crisis that you can get that money that's missing from the state, that you can pay minimum workers who have lost their jobs, social cases, those who are seasons that no one sees or asks what they're doing somewhere in between. Therefore, I think it is very important and we take advantage of this situation, we are ready, we have excellent economic experts in the party to change Croatia, we use this crisis to start reforming the second pension pillar, to transform it, to give people freedom to transfer their money or to the first pension column where they will guarantee the state or to the third liberal so that they can be rich or lost, but the time is so. If we do this, we will drastically reduce public debt, repair public finances and contribute to saving the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198005	Thank you. I'll have a break by 14.50. THE PURPOSE
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198006	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.50 HOURS]] So we have three replicas, we have two replicas at the exhibition of our colleagues Bernardic, we have one replica on the presentation of our fellow Lalovec. First fellow Maras at the fair of fellow Bernardic. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you explained a whole series of laws that I don't think it's a good thing we didn't discuss before the vote today, because some proposals are certainly still very current and we just need to apply them. One such proposal is also the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act where we predicted that one parent should be allowed to stay with his child if both parents work because we know that school doesn't work, that our children are home. We must thank parents who at this time are making a great effort to make up for this situation that is with their children, teachers who send tasks parents must work because they simply have to gain knowledge. And it would be much easier if the state would allow one parent to be at home with his child and do what is necessary. Here's what I want you to further comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198008	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198009	Dear colleague Maras. Maybe that's why you said that we don't actually have the government's opinion today because if they asked anyone responsible from the health care system of any epidemiologist, you'd say that for the possibility of spreading the infection isn't as good as our thousands of citizens do, going to work with children because they don't have anywhere to leave them. They're going with little boys, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia it hasn't been recorded yet, but we've seen that young people and children can be infected around the world and unfortunately the coronarys of the virus are dying. Not to mention when you bring a child to work, that virus can spread faster. So I can't believe that in a month there's no understanding, no sense, no common sense when it comes to treating parents who should stay home with their children for up to 12 years to prevent and spread the infection, but to make their lives much more pleasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198010	Thank you. The next replica of a colleague of the coat of arms on a colleague of Bernardic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198011	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Maras spoke of one important measure, and I would single out one other which seems to me to be extremely important for Croatian citizens, which is a matter of moratorium on loan payments. What the government of the Republic of Croatia has agreed with Croatian business banks and what business banks are giving based on their decision is all but a moratorium. It is a delay, a delay that citizens and citizens will pay dearly because during the duration of that delay they will be charged interest on the entire principal of the loan. So, in this way, the banks will actually cost 6 months of delays to Croatian citizens and make extra money in this way. That is why I believe that this may be the most important measure of all that we have proposed, and I absolutely advocate its adoption and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198012	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198013	First of all, thank you, fellow coat of arms, for that observation. That's what we're going to insist on, it's inadmissible that at this difficult moment the banks are reaching for additional profits in those who are unhappy with this crisis, which are the most endangered. And it is unacceptable for the government to calmly observe that additional interest is being charged on loans that people can no longer pay, especially those 20,000 people who are out of work thanks to the late government reaction or those 400,000 who fear that they will lose their jobs because simply those companies where they work today are closed. And that's why it's necessary, and that's why we're going to insist on making a moratorium on loans for the citizens for a year, but in a way that doesn't account for any extra interest because it's absolutely certain that this crisis is going to last and that we're going to need some more time to get out of this crisis. That's why we've been looking for a year, not any less prolongation periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198014	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask a colleague of Lalovec and a colleague of Maras you have a replica on a colleague of Lalovec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198015	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, I'd like to comment on the situation regarding the delay and moratorium on the loans. At this point, we have a situation that is not regulated and defined, so some banks haven't charged loans by this date until they see that citizens are applying for them to process and examine it in some way who would have the right and who wouldn't have the right. But I think and I think it would be normal for the state to regulate the system and know exactly what situation citizens are entitled to the moratorium for a year and on the other hand to protect them from the uncertainty of the next months and the next year. Because we know all seasons will be zero, over 300,000 people will be out of a job very soon, 300,000 took advantage of the possibility of being on the minimal offered by the government, the state has to do it urgently, so we don't have time to wait because the banks already recognized certain problems I think the state should too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198016	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198017	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, for asking. That's why the SDP also proposes a moratorium for a year, precisely because this won't be over in three months, only at 6 and 7 months we'll see the state of unemployment in society, we'll see that a number of companies that will only then open their doors at 6 and 7 months start from zero, let's not forget that they start from scratch that these three months of moratorium mean nothing to them. These companies will all take more than a year to recover their pre-crisis traffic. And because of this, when these companies start from zero, they will likely have minimally certain revenues, no tourism, no economic activity, and therefore it is important that in the 6th, 7th and 8th months when economic activity is due to return, not all banks will be frozen to purchase all of the liquidity from the system and thus will still cause economic recession and therefore we expect a very fast liquidity fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198018	Thank you. Now the government's representatives will give an additional explanation in a united call it a 15-minute debate with you being able to replicate each and every one of them, they will change. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198019	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In addition, to the set of legal regulations as well as the conclusions proposed in this agenda, a total of 10, what was introduced and said in view of the government's obligation to give its position and opinion, which for obvious reasons is the speed of action, given that these proposals are also by emergency procedure, here I use the opportunity to present at least in this section as regards the Ministry of Finance, so colleagues in their section. I would just like to begin by thanking my colleagues from the SDP and everyone who voted today for these legal regulations adopted by this House of Commons, proposed by the Government in order to mitigate the effects of the coronary epidemic of the virus. So far, we have had two packages of legislation in March and now in this month, totaling 32 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 18 decisions and 3 conclusions are all aimed at protecting the health of citizens, and, of course, preserving jobs and preserving the liquidity of businesses so that the economy can survive at all. In this regard, because of sustainability and the state budget itself, they would point out that in this way and in this way these measures so far have been developed by the Government in terms of citizenship, and solidarity and synchronisation in the work of all components of society is more than necessary and important to emerge from this crisis as little as possible and that the economy and society can function as a whole. As regards the legal rules that came from the Ministry's domain, there were five, the General Tax Law as a roof regulation that regulates the relationship between the tax authority and the taxpayer through whose... we went to regulate all these provisions concerning the suspension of payments to ultimately write down claims all under the tax code through the General Tax Code. This is what we wanted to shorten the procedures and go line-by-line in that part of taxation, all of the norms went through the General Tax Law, and now, after today's vote of law, of course, will be accessed and drawn up by the regulations themselves, which will set the deadlines where they are needed in terms of moving deadlines, as is, for example, allowed through the amendment of the Accounting Act, but in this section through the Regulation they will be allowed to be now 30.6. or some other date due to this operationality daily because the situation is changing, they can be freely said from day to day. So it's very important to know that as we know we have the main factor or factor in this whole situation completely unknown, it's the length of the duration of this crisis, and with its length and impact on the economy. Therefore, this dosing of measures that the state budget can take or will have to pass through some other types of funding must be such that it is sustainable, that it generally exists as a state budget. As regards these provisions of some of these proposals, I would just like to mention, for example, the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act where an untaxable reward for risk-related risks to elemental disasters is proposed, I would like to remind you that we already have these provisions in norms as untaxable including health care that was previously untaxable. So I'm really sorry, and I wouldn't want it to turn out that we don't want to meet all these good demands that are being proposed here, but since the regulations that are mutually synchronised are both the Ministry of Finance and the other members of the government. Certain proposals here are somewhat contrary to some of the activities that we have today supported by the government's adoption of these legal proposals. Of course, as far as the third round that the prime minister announced in terms of measures related to citizens is concerned, I believe the next measure, and which you are now pointing out here, and I assume that this will have more to say to the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198020	Thank you. I'm asking the next representative of the government. So on your show we have three replicas, we'll do that later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198021	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. I present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in oral form on the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the amount of support to preserve jobs in activities affected by the Crown virus, the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament not accept this proposal for a conclusion on increasing the amount of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the virus virus submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives' Club. First of all, I must stress that the focus of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to protect health, as well as to preserve all jobs and fight for every job. We stand firm behind Croatian workers, and in this sense there is a measure and all the other measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken. The meeting, held on 2 April 2020, concluded on the second group of measures to help the economy resulting from an outbreak of the coronary virus and the implementation of all these measures provided 65 billion kuna, I repeat 65 billion kuna. And for the support we are talking about, support for job conservation is provided 8.5 billion kuna and according to the current projections that we have, this measure will cover 500,000 workers. In accordance with the policy of preserving jobs, the amount of support to preserve jobs in sectors affected by the coronary virus has been increased from 3,250 kuna, as you know to 4,000 kuna per worker for April and May of this year, and employers using those support will also be freed from the cost of corresponding contributions. Just to remind you, the state is also carrying the burden of paying a contribution of around 1,500 kuna. And what I must especially point out is that on today, therefore, on 7 April, we have received 84,000 requests for about 500,000 workers, and only so far have we paid 600 million kuna. You remember that some day already the employers who applied and whose application or application was valid that one day they sat down 600 million kunas in total for a job-preservation measure or support. What I must also particularly stress and remind is that both employers and workers and trade unions and the entire Croatian public have, to a great extent, praised this measure of support for the preservation of jobs. The level of support is set at 4,000 kuna in order to cover as I have said as many workers as possible, to ensure the necessary material protection, to keep people in employment and to facilitate the business of employers under special circumstances and, of course, to account for available financial opportunities. What I must also point out when we talk about support for job conservation, it also existed in the past crisis that lasted during the SDP, but I must state that at that time the support for the preservation of jobs was consumed in 4 years only 2,008 times. Well, thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198022	Time, please. We have two replicas on your exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198023	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. As for the Ministry of Justice's portfolio, we have already repeated several times that with due attention, given the circumstances in which we are working on several amendments to the current legislative proposals. First of all, the executive procedures at this point have stopped. It is our recommendation to the public notaries to make all the public notes available for deadlines that will run when this situation continues. So our recommendation is that public notebooks make executive solutions, but don't send them to the executives until they pass the circumstances caused by the COVID-19 crisis. Also in the following days, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take new measures to fully halt the executive procedures until the elements of this health threat have passed. As regards the proposal to reduce the tightening interest rate on trade relations and contracts between traders and public rights persons, we believe that, although we appreciate the proposal's intention, it was not only in this particular section that the other relations were taken into account. Also in the non-standard part, it is not explained until the end, which means this feedback and justification of such feedback in view of the situation that has arisen since the day we declared the pandemic, which is 19 March 2020. Considering everything that you have suggested the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also working on this set of legal changes that will come in a package with a resolution of laws relating to the Ministry of Justice. The question of deadlines is also a matter of several laws, with due regard to the specificity of the issue of deadlines at the Ministry of Justice, we have proposed and in a few days everything about deadlines will be available to the public in order not to question the functioning of the judicial system as a whole. I repeat, it is not time for us to speak politically now, professionally with the justice portfolio we will do everything to address the issue of blocked citizens in a few days, the issue of enforcement in a way that will stop until the circumstances that require the situation to be normal in the Croatian state continue in a way that we can work on the new Executive Law, and that we now do in this part of the crisis stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198024	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198025	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives of colleagues and colleagues. Here before I start reading what I'm going to say today given these points that I would just remind everyone present today that today is World Health Organization Day, and we can especially speak with pleasure because we all know very well that one of the founders, and surely the first president of the World Health Organization was ours. Andrija Printer. First, he would refer to the proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I must say that the legal proposal suggests that one of the parents has the right to pay wages during the temporary prevention to work for the care of a child up to 12 years of life for the closure of educational institutions and that is, if the reasons for the closure of a health or safety nature are on the burden of HZZO funds. Since the rights provided under compulsory health insurance rights are directly linked to the use of healthcare in the existence of a disease or medical indication to achieve the same, that issue cannot be regulated by the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and cannot be achieved on the burden of the means of compulsory health insurance because there is no medical indication for the same in the sense of the Health Insurance Act. The second promemory is mine, which speaks of the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the maximum or maximum monthly amount of salary compensation, on the burden of HZZO assets, isolated or self-insulated employees due to the Covida-19 epidemic. This proposal proposes to increase the maximum monthly amount of salary compensation on the burden of HZZO funds to isolated or self-insulated employees due to an outbreak of covids and to the amount of the average salary in the Croatian Republic in January 2020. The proposal is not acceptable without the provision of additional funding from the state budget and therefore we do not agree with the proposal of this law Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198026	Thank you. Please give me just stay here, and we'll go the other way because we have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, followed by his colleague Maras. And I apologize to Anka's colleague, Mr. Taritash. Just stay, so you can answer immediately that we don't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198027	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State and I join in reminding ourselves that today is the World Health Day, especially dedicated to nurses and midwives who make a really big contribution to this fight. What I want to ask you is, are you in charge of ensuring the financial stability of this system in the ministry, because after the end of the crisis, the situation will be even worse, and therefore I appeal that, at the same time with the fight against the crown of the virus, you lead and fight to save the financial stability of the health system when the coronary crisis is over. Also, since we have all received a letter from the Chamber of Health Care Professionals of a special segment of health laboratory activity, to withdraw from the e-consultation of the law currently in the debate on medical biochemical activity because it is not in conformity with all stakeholders and is a discrimination against the employees of the laboratory profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198028	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198029	I would refer to this first part, to this second part, I think we've talked a lot about it, and I think that when this entire epidemic of Corona virus passes, we'll have plenty of time to talk about it in peace. As far as the financial situation is concerned, the fact is that we are now in a special position to provide health care to all those who have suffered from Covidom-19 infection and that this is our priority because it means not only that we have to provide financial resources for the adaptation of our hospital spaces, for the opening of respiratory centres, for the unification of certain functions of intensive care, intensive therapy, the acquisition of apparatus etc., etc., so for now we in one part would say reduced health work on issues of more selective procedures, and to the maximum focus on what cannot wait, and these are clearly medical emergencyes and malignant diseases, in this respect we have maximum orientation. and technical and financial, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198030	Thank you. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198031	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, as I understand from your debate, the government, or the state, has no money to pay to allow parents to stay, at least one of the two employed parents to stay with their children at home. When we estimated what the amount would be for the next period, we came to some billions of kunas if we used that exactly all in the Republic of Croatia in such a situation, which probably wouldn't be the case. But it's amazing to me that for our children, for parents who have to work with them on their home education, who have to take care of them, try to be sure in some way not to expose them to this whole situation under the motto "stay home" the government says there's no money for it. For some other things that cost the same thing, there's money. Now, you explain to me why the government can't find the money to keep each of our parent employees at least one of them, with their children at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198032	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198033	So I can't speak on behalf of the government, I'm not Prime Minister or Prime Minister, but I can say what and repeat what I said today and today this part of the financial compensation is not part of it, not part of which would be the health insurance from which patients who need to finance the health system as a whole are financed. So he just can't get into this law. If the government has money from some other means, I can't say it right now because I'm neither Minister of Finance nor Prime Minister, but I can't get into HZZO health insurance, it's not the same, there's no place for that legal space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198034	A fellow Maras injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198035	Thank you very much. The 238th article was injured, you here Mr. Secretary of State said you couldn't answer because you're neither Prime Minister nor Minister of Finance, and why did you come here to give your opinion on it? Are you just here to convey greetings and messages or represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about this law? You must give us an answer if you are a representative of the government. Why is it not possible to secure these funds in the state budget? It's going to be budget rebalance, plan them, you can't tell us that's not possible. So I'm begging you, Mr. Vice President, they're here. Government representatives have to give us answers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198036	Thank you, so in. So just for a second, so you can't because this isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Maras. [[/Intruder: Can I answer?]] So they give answers within their means, so no injured Rules of Procedure Please don't do this anymore. [[Intruder: Within its resources.]] Third replica of Anka's colleague, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198037	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you are here on behalf of your ministry and on behalf of the Government and we expect answers from you. In my replica, I ask you to read the following fact. So we at the GLAS Club immediately applied for an emergency procedure of the law where those in self-insulation linked to the threat we have from the virus would have a fee different from that prescribed at this point. What exactly is this about? It's about two weeks of self-insulation, and we only gave that up when it started, the fee was 2,100 kuna and it remained. But there's something else, when we looked at that law, that compensation for people who decided to donate an organ to someone, so they give someone their kidney, when they're on sick leave to receive a fee of 4,400 kuna in a month. So I'm interested in your position regarding these self-insulation and organ donation charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198038	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198039	It is difficult to compare the diseases resulting from organ transplants and the issue of organ transplanters with Covida-19 infection. These are two things that in medicine simply cannot be compared because they have neither the same etiology nor the same medical I would say weight. As for financial compensation to people who are in isolation or self-insulation, it is as much as the Government has decided at the moment that they can give, and whether there will be financial resources in the coming period depending on the development of the overall situation with this pandemic that is something we will see in the future, and probably according to that, we will then be different and financially oriented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198040	Thank you. Now we have three replicas of Secretary of State Salapic. The first is a colleague of the coat of arms, you can talk slowly, and you'll make one small intervention. Thank you. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198041	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, I assume you know what I'm going to ask you, and this concerns the situation in the judiciary and the fact that despite the announcements made by the Minister of Justice Mr. Bosnjakovic in the interim building of a meeting in the basement of a historic ININE building 10 days ago, we still don't have a law that would regulate the course of court deadlines in times of crisis. And you and I both know how many problems there are in the Croatian judiciary otherwise, we know that these problems are further highlighted now in the Kovid era, we know that there are courts that are blocked because individuals in these courts have been infected, we know that the earthquake makes it impossible to use a whole series of courts buildings in Zagreb. My question is, when are you going to refer to the procedure a law that will regulate the time-limits in court proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198042	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198043	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, we are in preparation for the deadline law, and we have already repeated it several times. It's not about one law. It's about a set of laws and a very sensitive matter. What I can say responsibly, the justice system in the circumstances in which we are caused by the earthquake, Covidom-19, works so that the rule of law is not compromised at any time. As for the specifics, we are in a few days will be after Easter and with you here in Parliament discussing this. There is nothing that would endanger any citizens of the Republic of Croatia to protect their rights, and also as far as investigative procedures are concerned, the urgency of court proceedings, all courts in the Republic of Croatia are doing their job in such a way that these laws are implemented no matter where the court is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198044	Thank you. The next replica of Anka's colleague Mrak Taritas, followed by counterpart Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198045	Before starting with the replicas, distinguished secretary of state, therefore we are in this area not because of the crown but because of the earthquake that was in Zagreb. The earthquake that was in Zagreb, what we have a chance to see has done a lot of damage in courts that are basically in the lower city where there was damage. I'm curious, of course, when you're here, then you're going to give us answers to what we have a chance to ask you, which is whether it started with the damage recovery, as you've thought, whether or not with the Ministry in charge of the property you're seeing some other locations where the work of the judiciary might take place, because some resolutions will take a very long time, and we think that life can't stop and we hope that this threat will end quickly, so that life will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198046	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198047	Thank you very much. You were the Minister of Construction, and then you know that some demands are complicated. As far as the County Court building in Zagreb is concerned, the reconstruction took place immediately after the earthquake and will eventually become operational. As for replacement properties, we have found several locations that will soon be published by one of them is a building on Harambasic Street that has about 4000 square meters, there will be moved by certain judicial institutions, the Commercial Court, part of the Administrative, etc. What we've been doing certainly from the day of the earthquake to today, we've taken steps to make the entire justice system work soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198048	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198049	Thank you. Dear Secretary Salapic, please answer my very simple question, you have now announced publicly that the government will prepare a stalemate of all tasks. But from what I've come from the media, I've concluded that it's a law relating to monetary performances, but I'm asking you specifically now, does this mean that it's going to be a stalemate of all tasks, means those who go through the FINE and those who the employer takes out from pay and pay the creditor where the pension is, too, part of the pension goes to the believer, will all of this be covered by the stalemate, and will there be a delay in the flow of tight interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198050	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198051	Your Honor, I've said and I repeat three times, we've been working on everything, we've made a recommendation to the public notaries to do a stop since the day the earthquake happened and these results caused by Covidom-19. No executioner has received an executive solution, no action, no execution, no actions. Within a week, we will unblock 240,000 citizens in time of 3 months when they will be able to fully manage their incomes in full amounts. As for the others, if I did not say in advance something that needs to be discussed on professional bodies, I would not want to be hasty to make sure that at this point we stop and help as many Croatian citizens as possible at the risk of this health threat in a way that we will stop as much as possible with the executive procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198052	Thank you. Next we have two replicas to the secretary of state, Mrs. Buric. We have, first is colleagues Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic. A little intervention, so we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198053	Dear Secretary of State, you have proudly pointed out in your presentation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the first step of 3,200 kuna in the second of 4,000 kunas net and around 5,200 gross for more than 80,000 employers and about 500,000 Croatian workers. I wonder if you can give us information on how much of these 500,000 workers before the crisis and before the decision on the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had a salary greater or significantly greater than that 3,200 kuna or 4,000 kuna or whether you can tell us how many of them fell to the minimum because of this government decision and whether these employers will still feel this crisis or not, or whether it will fall on the back of those 500,000 workers. And on the other hand, I have to comment that in your comparison of support from the SDP government I have an impression, I hope I'm wrong, as if you're lucky that this crisis hit Croatia so that you can say that HDZ has given 500,000 support, which is much less than he was giving the SDP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's exactly what I noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198054	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198055	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Giujic, I'm sorry that your feeling is cheating on you, it's very cheating on you. So I'll repeat our focus is health protection and on the other hand protection of all jobs. That is why we have provided an additional 8.5 billion kuna for the support measure to preserve jobs. What I must also tell you is that today we have 84,000 demands for about 500,000 workers, and so far we have paid about 600 million kuna. We're working at five speeds and moving on intensively. I just want to say that in the HZZ which is the implementing body for this measure, officials work in two shifts, so it is really intensive and what is our main intensity and the main goal is to preserve jobs. Also facilitating employers, facilitating workers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198056	Thank you. Next replica of colleague Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198057	Mrs Buric argued in her presentation that the measures of the government of the Republic of Croatia are equally supported by employers, workers and trade unions. It's only partially true. So you've respected almost all the proposals that came from the HUP, but not a single proposal that came from the union. Moreover, an amendment to the Labour Act has been prepared in your ministry to derogate workers' rights. That's fortunately prevented at the GSV session at least for the time being. Can you tell me if you are planning to bring any changes to the Labour Law in due time or if you are planning something else that we have already heard to suit workers, rather than going towards breaking this crisis just over their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198058	Thank you. Here's an answer from the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198059	Thank you very much. So that component, which is unfortunately unpredictable, is the duration of this entire crisis related to the crown, i.e. Covid-19. Our short-term measures and the medium-term measures are presented, before you. What I am extremely pleased about is that a very high consensus has been reached, I will repeat both employers and workers and unions and the overall social community and I believe that in any case it is something that is very important at this time and because of the feelings of our citizens and the sense of security and protection in very, very difficult and challenging times. Anyway, what I also have to tell you is that we've opened absolutely all the questions, we've assumed all the questions and we're considering [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198060	Thank you. And the last set of replicas on Secretary of State Zrinasic. There you go. You don't have a replica anymore. First up, she's a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198061	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have spent a lot of time with us in this crisis, and in your opening statement, you have explained what you have done, what you have done, what you intend to do. We don't normally think in GLAS that the state should always and every time everything is very sharp and everything needs to be regulated and regulated, but when it comes to banks, when it comes to the moratorium on loans, when it comes to the lying houses that colleagues were talking about in the opening presentation, we don't think that it can just work on a deal between the resolution minister and the banks, so that banks decide, we think it should also be defined by law. Don't let it happen to us that behind this crown epidemic and the downfall of the economy, the only one who will benefit from it and come out richer will be the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198062	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198063	Here, thank you very much. I agree with your suggestion in terms of the treatment of all entities in this crisis and the financial sector mentioned. Of course, this one division of all the participants in this situation is very important in terms of balance and tomorrow the continuation of life, as well as our citizens, and economic operators, and ultimately the financial institutions that in their part this is leaning on or these former ones are leaning on them. We have had some further proceedings that financial institutions have launched against the Republic of Croatia for, due to the adoption of certain legal norms that we still have court proceedings outside the Republic of Croatia, and in that sense, the government in the first steps has been better agreed than imperative if it is possible. Of course, this tall home and all together We'll bring certain regulations that are best. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198064	Thank you. Comrade coat of arms, here's another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198065	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, of course, and my question will be focused on the moratorium on loans, you understand why. I got word today by a gentleman with his situation, a loan he took last year, a war of 3,000 kunas a month, a clear principal in this year has paid nothing back. In order to get a six-month stay, so to get a refund of $18,000, the bank will account for an interest of more than 12,000. Do you think that's okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198066	Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198067	Thank you very much. Now you've brought up one case that is probably and life-like, I really can't get into the calculations right now, but the situations that have happened so far, or today, in terms of the crisis triggered by the corona virus, they're not at all comparable, so we're going to agree, and what this crisis is about to take action is to take those measures that were unimaginable until yesterday. So in this sense, what we are discussing today and what will be discussed in the coming days and making appropriate decisions will certainly require some measures that may not have been imagined in the past, and so this question that you are now asking, indeed weighs now what is right, you are a lawyer in the given conduct in terms of the Law on Mandatory Relations and other measures that, in certain exceptional circumstances, are necessary to take, this is something that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198068	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198069	Thank you, Vice President. So, first of all, I would like to say that all state secretaries here represent the government and I can't say that they don't represent the government, if they don't represent the government, they shouldn't have come here, she should have come as Prime Minister and Minister. Why is the suspension of the moratorium on loans of 3 months not sufficient? Because people took credit for example. in tourist activity extended either quality or expanded their accommodation facilities. This season is gone, it is clear to all of us, because the crown must stop not only in Croatia it must stop throughout Europe or around the world for tourists to go at all. Those people already know. What does it mean to them if after three months they have to pay off the loan, and they don't make money because this year they won't make any money. So, come on, let's approach the reasonable problem, reasonablely. So this proposal of ours to be for a year until they start working, until they start working is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198070	Thank you. Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198071	Thank you very much for asking. The measures launched by the Government during March and relating to the Coronal Virus, of course, are seen in terms of other Member States that are economically stronger and more powerful in terms of the construction of measures concerning the state budget. In this part and other measures that are not directly related to the state budget, of course the government has watched other Member States do so since we are EU members. Indeed, it is one graduation and degree of measures, so that the synchronicity and solidarity of all participants is now extremely important and not only as a flossula, and not only as a flossula, but also as an necessity to overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198072	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the proposal, actually, a set of laws. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, so she is a colleague of Grozdana Peric's. Here you go, after the intervention, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198073	Respect for the esteemed vice president, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, first and foremost to the Government, and we must always respect all the good proposals that are possible to always be accepted and incorporated into even better legal proposals. What we cannot accept at this time, which is this set of your laws, the SDP proposal, primarily because, as you know, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, and unfortunately, the earthquake that took place on the 22nd of this month and last month, so the two situations that were in any scenario were actually amazing. When the government agreed on those first March measures, it was only thinking about what would happen and what would be the consequences of the pandemic, and you know very well that when any measure is taken that all facts must then be considered, all the effects that would be and how such a situation would reflect both on the economy and on private lives, and in the first place on the health of the population or the whole nation. Therefore, when such measures are taken, they must be very well thought out. You have to take full parameters as if you're doing a new budget because all of the details you have to take care of. So in that first set, the measure covered what we had previously adopted, and we cannot say that it was very bad at that moment. The second set of measures came after this not even 15 days and today we adopted it and you must admit that there are many factors involved that have helped and calmed the whole situation and the uncertainty that has been caused by these two disasters. In the first part of the fee itself was 3,250 plus contributions, now it is 4,000 plus contributions, and in the meantime you see that there have been changes in that everything, every employer who fired a part of the worker precisely because of this uncertainty that he will be able to continue to work, has been given the opportunity to bring these employees back, and at this point there are 13,600 employees who then exercise the right, so they do not interrupt the employment relationship and return to the system of work and have the right to compensation of 4,000 kuna increased for the contributions that are once again on the burden of the state budget and what is important to say that the weight of these measures is over 8.5 billion kuna. At this point, we know that over 60,000 taxpayers, or entrepreneurs, have requested this measure and that more than 600 million kunas have already been paid. Very soon, so in the month, and only a practical application was made. What you should also say is that in, that citizenship and what you have in certain legal requirements is actually a request for a moratorium and so on. credit obligations are all understood, but at this point what we have brought is that through the amendments to the General Tax Law we have regulated exactly the possibility of these obligations being suspended temporarily, to stop the implementation and for all other public duties, and it is certainly always a question of what, after 3 months or after 6 months. And it's perfectly justified that we all think about it because each one of us has or has or has credit obligations and certainly doesn't care when that obligation arrives. However, let the government do and do these, these two packages that will be adopted within a very short period of time, and a new measure that will allow citizens to be so much more peaceful and that it can function in this way. It's already mentioned today what happens and when it's going to happen. In fact, it's very important how long it's going to take this particular measure that's caused by Covido-19. And what remains secretly to us in the following certainly 7, 8 if not for many years, which is these measures that will need to be done to help citizens rebuild apartments, houses, historical sights, churches, etc. and we will certainly have much help from EU funds. What we are also talking about when we talk about a set of these measures is about paying VAT, I have already mentioned that in the VAT projection for this year there were over 50 we expect revenue 55 and some billion kuna and now after this everything that happens pandemic, there is no tourism, there is no consumption, and besides these elemental disasters, then we can assume how much impact all this will have on the revenue side of the budget that cannot expect so much charge and which will have to think very much about a lot of other sources of funding. We must not forget that it is already in previous measures that it is possible for companies to private up to 7.5 million traffic or over 7.5 with a 20 per cent or more drop in traffic to 50%, that the possibility of partly prolonging, reprogramming, to write off part of the claim and debt, therefore a large part of these measures has already been consumed and I think that the Government has responded in a very good and rapid way about all of this. What you just insisted on, and this secretary of state expected to answer your question, so it really can't happen if something isn't caused by disease, infection, etc. that pay compensation cannot then be compensated from a source of compulsory health insurance, then there are other measures because you know it is illegal. So you can't prejudge something, so you can't be sick, but there was a measure for it, and there's a way that you can pay off on a different basis, and another way that can be helped, and eventually it's accepted and we finally adopted it. So when we look at the total of these measures that are now over 45 billion kuna plus 20 billion that have reached commitments from previous periods, then you see that the set of these measures is over 9.6% of our GDP, which is certainly more than many other European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198074	Thank you, thank you. We're continuing on behalf of the clubs. Next registered counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. A colleague of Zekanovic does not have and in accordance with Article 233 he loses the right to talk about this item of the agenda for, throughout the entire debate. We continue with the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, colleagues of Grmoje and colleagues of Bulj shared the debate. First one's a colleague of the Grmoi. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198075	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we warned with that first package of government measures that these measures would not be enough, we said that we needed to go to the write-off, not to the delays, and the government listened to us. At that time, no amendment to the opposition was accepted. Not because these amendments were bad because it proved later that the government was all what we were saying at the Most but also other colleagues actually accepted, but they weren't accepted just because they came from the ranks of the opposition. Today we have the same situation, the second, second round of the Government package, all the amendments we have given have been rejected and it can be concluded that in this crisis situation the opposition shows unity and constructiveness, and by ruling again shows one party boredom. This is what grieves all over this story, and in particular the sadness that those first to be thought of, to whom the first should be intended package they will come third in a row, in the third round after Easter. Our seniors, our pensioners, our unemployed, our blocked and completed. MOST first thinks of you or think of you first, not as the last, as those on which the measures will be taken after the Easter. We asked the Croatian Parliament to continue the session, to support itself or our proposal because we too have a proposal on a moratorium on loans and performances or a proposal from colleagues from the SDP, but we do not even ask for that. Give you your ruling proposal, give your government colleagues your proposal we will gladly raise your hand to him. Our citizens who are the most endangered in our society deserve a peaceful and peaceful Easter, deserve a resurrection without a cold, a resurrection without fear, a Easter in joy with their families. So much for me, and hopefully here you'll change your mind, there's still time, the president of the assembly can call and tomorrow's session of the assembly, the government can give its measures and we'll be happy to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198076	Please stop the time for a moment, thank you. A little intervention. Thank you, ma'am or miss. Here you go, fellow Bull, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198077	My colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representatives of the government, why am I partly disappointed? Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said so too, but it is noticeable in the general public that the opposition is making constructive proposals, and that the Government simply rejects them, and anything proposed constructively by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the opposition accepts it. These measures that the MOST has also given, and we are now discussing the SDP measures especially about the most endangered, about the postponement of the credit, about the delay of the performance, that's what the first tribal is about, the first measure. These people are the most endangered right now. No one would forgive these people, but it would be delayed if they weren't responsible for this crisis. And what he would point to here, today was a vote on the results of Croatian politics, poor conduct of Croatian agriculture, bad leadership, so I gave the law on the ban on the sale of agricultural land. The government rejected it, both foreign and legal, foreign and legal individuals. It is the government of the Republic of Croatia, the honourable representatives of the government, the citizens, if you are looking, who refused to sell agricultural land, refused my proposal to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. And the agricultural land, is, right now, agriculture has said that the wrong policies we had mainly towards agriculture so that it disappoints me that the opposition is constructive at this point, accepts all the proposals that you government representatives make, and you reject all of ours from the opposition, but these are proposals for the benefit of the citizens. Well, a lot of the suggestions I've made for SDP hasn't voted for them, but this is a good proposal, I'll support it. You would hardly accept any amendment, any proposal from the opposition. Why? Because you're using both the crisis and this health and economic crisis exclusively for the PR, and that's not good, everyone here is equal, we're all at risk. Thus, when we are discussing these laws and speaking now with us at Easter today, he represented the council in this crisis, of course, that they should be much, much more constructive from the position of power. If we're looking for a delay, because now it's SDP law, and MOST suggested it, the MOST Club and this and other colleagues in the opposition don't see any reason why you wouldn't accept it and why the government didn't put that measure into emergency procedure and we would vote again today or come tomorrow. And not now for Easter you leave that space, the greatest Christian holiday I congratulate from this place I wish all happy and blessed Easter, the greatest Christian holiday to all our citizens. For days, it was broken whether markets should be opened, so of course the triba with all the respect measures because it is more likely to be infected by the coronary virus in a closed area trade chain, but foreign products are sold there, and domestic products were mostly sold in the markets. Here I hear the announcement now and it is my pleasure that after a long, long application will open up markets that should not have been closed at all, but with all the criteria of respect that the Tribals would respect as in trade chains, but better to buy Italian pomidores, it is better to buy strawberries than this Spain than Vrgoračka, it is better to buy meaning those products. Here, I would say in the end that I am disappointed that we are not continuing to work while all groups of unemployed, retired, particularly completed and blocked and, of course, all these measures he has proposed in this case suggest opposition to what we are leaving. The government could have made this simple, it could have made a proposal for its additions and we could have settled it in this big week before it meant Big Thursday and Big Friday. In this way we would actually come to a solution and a peaceful Easter. In the end, you would wish all the citizens a happy and blessed Easter, hopefully if there are measures here, you see 151 of us here that on this greatest Christian holiday and Croatian believers will have the possibility under all measures either within the sacral churches, either outside churches, here you in the government or in front of churches or in the courtyards will be allowed at least to share, not all, part of the people, the believers can unfortunately have the opportunity to participate in this greatest Christian meanings on Easter, the greatest Christian holiday and the sacrament. And once again, I wish you all a happy and blessed Easter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198078	Thank you. We are continuing to debate on behalf of the club of MPs, next is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, in front of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Taritash. So five minutes dark, five minutes Taritate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198079	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the Crown Virus or Covida-19, no matter what we call it, has caused major changes in our lives. One of these changes will also be seen on the greatest Christian holiday of Easter that we will certainly not be working in a circle of some broader family because everyone is staying home and I really respect that if you are guarding yourself, guarding someone else and keeping everyone around you and we are taking care of it. We sit here at a distance, we don't shake hands, we take care of each other, and when we talk to someone, we use space. And that's all the coronary virus has changed, but something hasn't changed. It did not change that when it comes to opposition proposals that they will get their place in the Croatian Parliament in the worst time, so now not even the evening term, but after the vote, this package of laws won and did not change that when the opposition gives amendments, that these amendments, no matter how reasonable they may be, how helpful they might even be, that they refuse to explain themselves. I'm just going to refer to me as the favorite amendment that was rejected today by our club, we've given an amendment that is related to office leaders and tourism that, because of the Corona virus or Covida-19, they no longer need to know foreign language. So when the coronary is a virus or a Covida-10, those who run offices, they don't have to know foreign language with tourism. And now we say the amendment of my people so don't do crazy things, it has nothing to do with it, and it's being rejected, and it's quite serious, the secretary of state has explained why it's happening, if you're asking me why, I don't know, but it's been pretty serious. But let's get back to this subject. The first set of measures that was in March, I must admit that I'm always somehow trying to understand, so whether or not I agree with that first set of measures that we can call March I understood. We didn't know what the scales were, no matter what the crown was rolling behind the hills when it came to Europe, someone got a little better, someone got a little worse. It was not a willingness to bring some options, or some variants, because it did not know how long this would take. So I had this first set of measures that way. The second set of measures I called April 1 0, because with the certainty that a second set of measures will come in April which we will call April 2 0, all those who spoke can't go in just a delay you have to write off, you have to define something. We spoke as opposition MPs, they spoke to the businessmen, they all said, and in that second set of measures, some things were heard. And you saw that at the vote that was today and that was 130 of us, I don't remember when we were, the last time we were 130 when there was a set of measures or a little less of those Marchs, it just means that after all, the MPs, no matter how we were perceived, are responsible. We are responsible for what we are saying, we are responsible for certain crisis situations and this responsibility and opposition parliamentary deputies are really ready to take over on their backs and no matter what you're discussing and with some things you disagree with and some things you warn us that now the situation is next, which is that we need to support and support a set of measures, but for tango we need two. Tango doesn't go to one, so no matter how you turn around, but the other one's just like that, he's gone to sleep somewhere, and he's waiting somewhere. That's what I'm saying between, so the opposition suggests something, and on the other hand it's a government that's pretty hard to say that these things can't be accepted, but then at some headquarters conferences that I can really say that it seems to me that it's doing a good job, it's using time to deal with some political inexperiences, which is not good. So, at these moments, the opposition has made clear everything from the government that comes, and we conclude that it is good that it will help the citizen, we will support the citizens, but we also think that the time when the opposition proposes something, so sit down, talk, let's talk. And it's not even a problem that then the government in some package April 2 0, May 1 0 or that took what was there and said here we took and said one sentence is the subject of a common agreement. As long as the crown lasts, it should listen to experts and they somehow predict how it will grow, fall, linearly and everything else. What will be the consequences of the Corone or Covida-19 on the economy that no one, regardless of the experiences they have, can predict. It seems to us that this crisis is to be used for a few things. The first thing to take advantage of is a little look at our laws being written. They're being written unreasonablely, written in a way that we don't want them to be understood by anyone, complicated, complicated in procedures, we tend to complicate where we shouldn't. Maybe one of the situations, or the outcome of this crisis, that we all think about it together a little bit. I will only take one example, of course I live in the City of Zagreb, until the City of Zagreb would care, an example of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the behaviour of the City of Gas. People closed the gas in houses that weren't even damaged by the earthquake because they were well built. The gas station said okay, to let you gas out, you have to come to us, you have to fill in 3 or 4 requirements in the context of the crown only you come to us maybe someone has, so we'll split it up and pay 3,000 kuna and then when you do all that, then we'll make a list of priorities and we'll go and release that gas. My people, if it weren't true, it would be for one of those comedies or soap operas, but that's true. So, the first time I heard it from a guy in the city gas station, I was sitting at home, I thought I heard something wrong, I heard something. So, from this crisis, maybe we could come out smarter because look at the e-citizen working neatly, everything works through emails, let's be something smarter and try to see the regulations and see what we regulate and how we regulate it. Another thing we should be able to get out of this crisis, we should be clearly wondering what kind of economy we want for Croatia, whether we want to hang on to tourism, whether we want to only hang on to imports and certain services, or if we think something else is going on here. Today we voted for the amendments to the Agriculture Act, which in the sense of no one at all is disputed, but in the debate we're the Minister of Resorna was with us, we said something we might need to take well-meaningly, we think the time has come when agriculture is for a serious reset. Something about that farm and the way we work is wrong. This is the moment when we can reset ourselves, we can take the green plan that the EU has made regarding climate change, more climate change after 2 months we no longer mention ourselves, and two months ago our mouths were full of climate change, see what the green threshold for agriculture is, and maybe it's a strategy for the development of Croatia's agriculture with some adjustments. From this set of laws, it is especially important that the law which speaks of a delay is related to loans. No, and that's what I said to the secretary of state, and I repeat, and now for the rest of this pay phone, don't let this crisis that's hit us all, we still don't know what the scales are, the ones that come out unscathed or richer, be banks, like it was in every crisis. Let's try to really take care of our citizens and the problems they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198080	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The last reported debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives was a debate reported by counterpart Tomislav Žagar, in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198081	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear State Secretarys and State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. The HSU Club, independent representatives, New Politics and SNAGA will support this set of laws proposed by the SDP Club because one member of our club participated actively in the preparation of these laws. Why is that? Well, this set of laws, first of all, all those measures that the government, which we voted today, are vertical and horizontally expanding. Vertically in the amount of compensation and assistance to be provided, and horizontally to most of our citizens who are not covered by these measures that we adopted here at HS today. Namely, the secretary of state here when she initially explained why the government rejects these bill proposals, I apologize, that's a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club said two important dates, one date was March 19th when the pandemic was declared and the second date was March 22nd when the earthquake was in Zagreb. Why do I mention these two laws? We can see that this process is extremely turbulent and dynamic and that the government, at least so far, has not shown the right way of planning, planning future activities, but is exclusively used for what is otherwise used when steering or managing, requires some kind of feedback, so on 23rd of the earthquake in Zagreb, the 23rd of March center has made a decision to ban leaving the place of residence. Watch out, places of residence, and then this caused a huge amount of passes that were issued because we have 6756 seats in Croatia. That picture shows how things work out only when they come up, and little is planned in advance. Of course, respecting the fact that it's hard to do things and plan ahead. The second thing that matters, as far as these measures are concerned, was not a great situation before the outbreak in the Republic of Croatia. So, even before the outbreak occurred, 140 thousand people were at the Employment Service, but we must not forget the large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had left the Republic of Croatia before that and hired in other countries. We also see that these citizens are returning to the Republic of Croatia, they have no place to go but to the Employment Service, and since the adoption, since the announcement, since the crisis occurred, we see that a large number of citizens have already ended up at the Employment Office. It is true that these government measures can be re-employed and re-received, this amount provided for in the measures. It is seen here that this is a serious, serious crisis and that what the secretary of state has highlighted, and what is the most important parameter in the whole crisis, which is the time of this crisis, which no one can predict how long it will last. So we have an extremely dynamic and busy period in which entrepreneurs will have to respond to the challenges ahead. That's why I think this set of measures is good, but the government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact, the Ministry of Finance, the minister, will have to respond as soon as possible to what kind of rebalancing is expected of the budget in the future. To that question, I think it's going to be the biggest, the biggest challenge on this issue is going to be. And what is crucial is why these measures should be supported. The government will certainly think of them if it does not support them, because although the announcement of this third set of measures will be directed towards citizens, so that it will not be late, because as I said, citizens who are already at the Employment Service, everyone who, whether earlier, has now gone to the Bureau, all who have had problems serving their obligations, especially loans, there are, of course, students, pensioners who find it difficult today. It's hard for them for a number of reasons, and mostly for the fact that their pensions are small, and then this crisis hit them. For all these citizens, therefore, measures should be taken to facilitate and enable them to live and overcome this difficult situation. When GDP is growing, the biggest benefit is those who are richer, but even when GDP falls, it breaks over the back of the poorest, and therefore these measures are very important. In the last debate there when we had in the INA building I mentioned it, I will mention again, that, not by chance, and the financial sector will not hesitate to come out of this process uncircumcised, and in fact they will try to come out uncircumcised in all ways, and that is what the credit rating agency which has reduced Croatia by one degree. Their assessment that GDP would fall by 5%, this could mean according to that rough, budget that the unemployment rate would be 2.5% at least and that is 50,000 people without jobs and these are the things that we will have to answer because it is about citizens who will be out of work, employers of course who will have to close their trades or their businesses and because of these things we need to think about measures as soon as possible and bring them forward. That's why I think this set of measures is good, we'll support them at the club, and I'm telling the government to think hard if he doesn't want to accept the proposals coming from the opposition, and we see that this is the case, so let the public, as soon as possible, have a set of measures that will allow citizens to overcome this crisis and live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198082	Thank you, too. We ended the discussion on behalf of the clubs. We're continuing an individual debate. I'd like to ask Miss for a little intervention, and then a colleague of mine, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198083	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the adoption of this second package, I believe that most of these legal proposals on behalf of the SDP Club will be implemented through the regulation and the former provisions of certain laws. Likewise, certain legislative proposals are not intended to say so to the address to which they might be said, but what I think is also why I came forward for an individual debate and wanted to share with you, and also to point out one problem that first and foremost my colleague Lalovac and I have been talking about in this assembly for a long time, which is a liquidity problem. And this directly binds to this law on credit forgiveness because when we talk about liquidity, then citizens are also liquid and liquid. So, did this legal proposal cover all the obligations that Croatian citizens have. Not only do Croatian citizens have only loans, they also have a commitment to leasing societies and a commitment to card houses, a commitment to insurance companies, a commitment to teleopers and a number of other obligations. Therefore, this law, and I think that the Government is thinking about it, must be complete and must cover all aspects of the obligations that our citizens have. Also, colleagues and colleagues should not forget that over the past few years Croatian entrepreneurs from craftsmen have had an extremely high investment cycle, investing money in economic activities. And many of them have found themselves in this package of measures that the government has proposed, which is to pay salaries and not have to pay pension and health for the simple reason, whether because of the provisions of the headquarters, whether because of this or that reason they simply stopped doing business. And we're talking about a moratorium on loans, so we just have to put all of them in those packages. And that's why the law deserves far wider scope, deserves far more attention for reasons, if we don't approach it that way she thinks we're going to make a lot of trouble. The other thing, from a month ago and a few days ago when there was a law on insurance in the assembly I repeat about the responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. To be honest, I expected that both business banks and Leasing companies and insurance companies would come out with some package of their own when this crisis started with one single goal to protect those who bring them profits. Because they, if those who took up credit with them who made insurance policies or who took something to Leasing if they can't pay them first, put them in trouble. So they should be in the interest of finding that first package. And I think the government is talking in that direction. We have heard that the CNB has already brought about certain changes that they can react to, and if in such a way we could approach this problem which I believe is crucial to the state's funding problem in the coming months, then the law would be comprehensive. And it's a good idea for a colleague from the SDP Club to propose it as a law, but this bill of yours solves only one small segment, just one small segment. Because what difference does it make whether you have to pay the loan or whether you need a war lying to society or whether you need to pay the war to the insurance company, no. It's your obligation that if, and what I think is still important at this point, if you work normally, you do business, you get paid, then this measure doesn't have to apply to you. This measure should apply to those who do not function normally, who do not receive salaries and ultimately we as a social state must take care of our citizens. And I'm saying I think the government will come out with a package that will certainly take care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, without intending to tell you, but colleagues and colleagues you've only dealt with this law one little segment, and that's why I wanted to share this debate with you because I think Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198084	We have one replica, please you can stay. He's a friend of Sagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198085	Dear fellow Shuker, I agree with you, it's true it would be very good for the banks to decide to negotiate with their clients to see which way it goes. However, this so you know from experience doesn't work, it just doesn't work, it's about positions of power, banks are extremely powerful compared to their clients, especially citizens. And actually this, as far as I understand it, is going towards the weakest, the most vulnerable, because with them banks are hardly going to negotiate. It is therefore necessary to define legal frameworks to create moratories on commitments, but not in such a way as to further accumulate interest later, but to simply buy that time for these people, so that while they overcome the crisis, they can continue to serve their obligations. Of course you're right when you talk about other obligations, like, according to the Leasing societies and everyone else, but I think it's from the position that it's hard to expect that banks will work that way. They still need to be legally forced to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198086	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198087	Comrade Sagar, that you listened carefully to what they said, I said that legally, if we need to, we need to solve everything. And the normal thing is that we have to think about those who are the most vulnerable, that we have to react here, but I repeat, everyone in their segment is important. And I guess the banks burned after that big crisis 10 years ago and how great they are. The placements had to be converted into non-refundable claims and that they would think and think about how to save those who ultimately bring them profits and repay loans and pay interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198088	Thank you. The next debate is a debate from fellow Pernar. And a little intervention from my colleague Pernar. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198089	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The solutions this government has for the current crisis are not adequate and will not solve it, and I will explain why. The main problem is with loans, by putting on a moratorium, the cause of the problem is not solved. The problem is that these loans will ultimately need to be paid back and that many people living on tourism during the summer months are expensive money to pay off the loan for the rest of the year. However, in this case, what will happen? Moratorium will last, for example. For the next few months, they'll run out of money from the season, it's just a season, for example. failed, which is very likely to happen and suddenly end this extraordinary state of Beroshevo. Yeah, this isn't gonna last forever. And what happens when it goes away? And then the banks will say now, look, there's no state of emergency, the loans have to go back, and the revenues from this summer are gone. Where are these people gonna get your loans back from? They've got nowhere to go. Another problem, all the time this moratorium, interest is accounted for. So are you aware of what that means? Where are people gonna get those interest back from? The legislator doesn't care. Here's an identical example of the work. The government says we're introducing a moratorium to execution. And what does that mean in practice? Well, in practice, it means that the same scheme goes on the same way. It's not going to stop now, it's just going to bring down that waterfall, as soon as these measures are cut off, and the reason for this whole executive hell is that the performances are actually given to public notebooks, which they can account for whatever fees and what ultimately, you have enormous costs of the execution, so people don't necessarily kill the debt for water of 200 kuna, but they get killed by the costs of the execution. They're getting killed by the fee that FINA's taking. FINA is taking an enormous fee. Did the government solve that question? No, I don't. The government neither solves the issue of interest, or there are no interest moratories, nor does it think about what will be left of income with people this summer, and when the moratorium passes, it will have to. Yes, when the moratorium passes and this state of emergency passes, it will have to continue to repay the loan, it has nowhere to go. The government doesn't care about that. This solution that the government has, you know what these solutions are? These are short-term solutions. Maybe the government has a solution to the election of parliamentarys at 9:00. I mean, what's it gonna be in 10, 11, 12, 1, 2, 3. Mesa, 5 months. Next year? And the government doesn't think about it. This is one crazy way, this policy has no vision whatsoever. Also, there's one more thing I want to say. If the population is not divided into young and old, both healthy and sick, and it will go with a general quarantine story that is being imposed on us at all times, it will take a very long time for a critical number of people in the population to get infected and get over the crown. Yeah, that's the problem. It's going to take a very long time, instead of being, because young people, they have no mortality at all, 0.1%. Instead of allowing young people to get over, get immunity, a critical part of the population to have resistance to this virus and end with quarantine measures, quarantine measures will be delayed indefinitely. And you know what kind of solution they're going to offer? Then he'll offer as a solution, what? The vaccine. And then they'll tell my people, we have to protect the weaker. But you all need to be vaccinated. And what about those who refuse to vaccinate? He'll be in trouble again. I don't see where this policy leads, I can't understand people who support the general instead of selective quarantine. I don't know how many more months they're planning on keeping the whole people in this agony because people are mentally firing and they can't take this condition anymore. But nobody cares about that, and half the country's on the minimal, which is what those who are unemployed and who were planning to do, seasons, have nothing to live on, so nobody cares. The state doesn't regulate it at all, I asked Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic, what about those who don't have a fee from the Stock Exchange? What do they live on now that they can't find a job? And Plenkovic says, Alardovic will find a solution. I don't see him yet. When will this solution come? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198090	Thank you, colleague Pernar. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Sasa Djujic, please a little intervention, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues from the SDP. So here's how much the government is interested in our measures and our proposals, this shows that there aren't any MPs in the hall right now except for the SDPs. So, they're full of the mouth of the community and all that... Now you're in, now you're in [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you're in. ... [[Intruder: Mr. Pernar.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198092	Mr. Pernar, Mr. Pernar Mr. Djujic, Mr. Pernar. [[You're in from the outside now.]] Mr. Pernar Mr. Pernar. ... [[Intruder: Yes.]] Mr. Pernar, a reminder [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm not gonna throw him out, but I'm giving him a warning, this behavior is not appropriate. [[Don't kick him out because then he'll say you threw him out on purpose so I can say there's no one but us.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198093	Here, I welcome fellow Pernar who just returned and fellow Shucker who has now entered, thank you very much. So what I'm saying is, this is already the 3rd package of measures SDP is proposing. 3. package, so after the first two of which none of them were adopted, none of them were accepted. So we propose certain solutions and certain measures that the Government then partially accepts after a while. The same thing is with this package. So here and just now, my colleague Schucker said in his debate that we're covering a small part, a small segment of the problem when we're talking about a moratorium on loans, that we haven't fully worked it out and worked it out, let's just say that the government is going to cover that part in its future action, and it's going to work it out together. But he didn't tell his colleague Shuker that our proposals, for example, were not working. He didn't say, because he knows that he's part part of it, part of it's good. I listened well, I heard it all right. Well, what's the problem, you know what my colleague Shucker is? We are proposing these packages because the ruling HDZ has not included the opposition since the first day of the conversation. You didn't turn it on. You can nod all you want. You're not. You are sitting alone with yourself and this second package of government measures that was now, which was delayed in part you presented to your coalition partners, and you did not find it appropriate to invite opposition representatives to this conversation, you did not. Because you don't need us, because you don't care what we have to say, and that shows this hall here today. Empty, just you fellow Shucker, here you are, and colleague Pernar. And my colleague Pernar. ... So when I don't have anyone, how am I supposed to, what am I gonna mention about Sanader when he's not here? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What am I going to say? Who? I mean, what am I going to say, here, a colleague I don't know, who? Who? You tell me, fellow Shuker, when you're alone. There's no one here. Nobody cares. The SDP is a colleague here, is, is, we've had enough. So, look, we suggest, you don't listen, you don't care. Another thing again, so it's not the devil that none of our proposals are right. We are in this package of measures, I am now not going to enter into each individual, but colleagues Bernardic and Lalovac said in the introduction, this is the third package that includes citizens, citizens who are also the most socially endangered of whom the government has not considered at the moment. I'm not saying he won't think in his third package. But I don't understand why the opposition isn't involved. You say, "Here's a good suggestion, and you didn't even bother to fix it." So today we wouldn't be discussing this or counting here if Prime Minister Plenkovic's first day had called all the presidents of the opposition parliamentary parties and said, let's hear, let's all heads together, who has any suggestions. So maybe one part of our measures would be included already in the government's package and instead, and all the time you're talking here, make suggestions, thank you, but that's not enough. It's not good, but we're going alone. We only represent coalition partners. Gentlemen, this concerns the entire country, both left and right and all citizens, not just HDZ and its coalition partners. And for that, here we appeal to you, let us in, so we can't wait until you remember something, until you remember citizens with credits. Well, we had to propose a law. We don't have another model. Our representatives didn't sit with the government's representatives at the meeting so they could make some kind of suggestion there, so here you are, fellow Shuker, you complete it and you say, and you made a good proposal. Here, there's only the ones with the loans, there's no lying, there's no insurance houses, there's no such thing as that, so we could do a whole proposal together. And this is how we have to make suggestions when you don't listen to us, you don't want to hear us. You're saying it's not time for politicizing, and it's yesterday as a charger. Plenkovic, Sanader, Bozinovic, in his uniform on the fifth, 5th day in a row, calls counterpart Bernardic and SDP. That's, what's that? That's not politicizing? You've got suggestions, you've got suggestions, we'll respect everything, you don't respect anything today. You haven't accepted any of our amendments today. So what exactly are all our suggestions stupid? Well, I didn't realize it from your discussions that we're proposing nonsense or stupidity, but even praise it, but look, what, we're enough for ourselves. That's not good. We're not at war, but we're not in any ordinary condition. And not to mention, this session procedure, first in that building of INA over there, and today here and limiting replicas and speeches, I hope that from the 15th time we get back to our building things will go back to normal. I don't have any more time, but I expect we'll get back to normal and start listening to us as an opposition. Because, look, this situation will pass, I hope as soon as possible. Maybe in a month, maybe in two. Maybe in 3 and then they'll [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to file accounts. [[Intruder: Stay here.]] So it won't be binco Support, we can all the time... [[We have 3 replicas.]] Okay, thank you, here, just to finish the thought. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198094	Thank you. A colleague of Hajdukovic's. Here's the first replica, the second one's a colleague of Shucker's, then a colleague of Jagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198095	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djujic, you're talking about a call for community, this lack of respect for the opposition, so I'd just like to go over there and say that HDZ calls for consensus and for community only when it suits them. And you know how they experience that unity and consensus? "Here you can back us up." And we are not criticizing or criticizing, nor criticizing, but making concrete suggestions. Yeah, maybe some of our proposals aren't perfect, but that's why, in the debate, we should all come up with the best proposals to protect our citizens. And.../incomprehensible... when we do that to HDZ, they reject it. And therefore, I fear that these measures will eventually turn out to be flawed in a lot of things, that they will change many times, that they will contribute to the uncertainty of the labour market and the market in general in the economy and we will actually produce exactly the counterproductive effect of what we wanted, which is to protect citizens, workers, but also entrepreneurs and economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198096	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198097	Comrade Hajdukovic, of course, that all our measures are not perfect, such as the Government's all measures. But two heads are smarter than one, and that's what we've been trying to do all along to deal with this crisis, not to have the HDZ running its story. Well, look, they dropped the Parliament, that debate in the INA about that package last time was nothing, what pro-forma, out there at the President of the Parliament saying you have the right to 2 replicas per club. So they don't even want to listen to us. They won't listen to us today. So it's not going anywhere. So, we should, this is not a HDZ crisis and its coalition partners, but all of Croatia's citizens, and we must have the opportunity to talk together and all the best, every party, every political option that has in its ranks to make it easier for the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198098	Thank you. Next replica, fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198099	Thank you very much. Well, it's not good to say things that aren't right. I'll use the softest expression, if my colleague Bauk were here, he could confirm to you that the Prime Minister has summoned all these leaders and opposition parties and clubs and has exposed them to measures to discuss. So much for that, that's the facts. Secondly, I think my personal debate today was about discussing the subject. Third thing, colleague Djujic, we've known each other for a long time. I was expecting, since I'm the only MP from the opposition here, that you're going to try to put in some arguments to convince me that something is not contained in the existing laws, that I did something wrong. You've been talking all along about how someone like this, how you're somebody like that. Okay, that's what you said, that's what your colleagues will say, but explain why your laws are good, I even said that one law and missed a target because those funds can't pay off what they're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198100	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198101	And fellow Shuker, I expected you to convince us why our laws are not good and that the government did better than us and that we should give up. But on the contrary, you said that one segment did well in this moratorium law on loans, so what do I have to explain to you that this is a good move? Well, you know it better than I do, you said it yourself. In fact, you've spread the story that we haven't covered the Leasing Houses, that we haven't included insurance companies, so here's what we talked about before, we could have given one quality whole law together. And when you said we didn't sit down, that we didn't, that, uh, Comrade Bauk, here he came now, that the Prime Minister invited them to that first package of measures that the entrepreneurs and all welcomed to the knife together. This last vote we voted here today at noon you presented to coalition partners on Thursday and on Friday came to debate after a hasty procedure in HS, i.e. in the basement of the INA on 2 representatives per club. And we couldn't make a contribution, no one listened to us, no amendment was adopted, today Here, who's listening to us? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Who are we talking to?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198102	Thank you. Last replica, colleague Sagar Comrade Sagar, here you go. [[Intruder: My emotions are working.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198103	Dear colleague Djujic. So, you said it right. The situation is quite complex, and when you say that we're going back to normal, then you should keep in mind that this return will be extremely difficult. It is clear that there will be a danger to the health of citizens and that at that moment citizens will start living normally. But back to those positions that weren't good before this crisis, I'm talking about economic situations where citizens were and the economy is going to be difficult to achieve, let alone what we planned before this crisis in terms of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. So it's very important that the government listens to you now, that it really listens to all the good advice because at this point we're just responding to what's happening right now. We are not thinking about what will happen in the future, and in these measures there are many proposals that will affect the future, and so we need to think about what will be in the future because we already need to know what it is, what kind of rebalancing the government will have to propose soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198104	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198105	My debate was like this because five minutes is really little to explain and to explain each of these measures. I think some of them are making their own argument. But why was I talking about this debate? That's because I'm afraid, and I see it, that the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic don't care what we think or care about. There's one proof today. So today he's talking about this law on tracking. He talks, he says, well, you gave all the data to Facebook and Google, so why don't you give it to HDZ? Why don't you give us, too, even so they follow you, so let's follow you. And then the journalists tell them, but it wasn't adopted in the Parliament, today it's, it's a decision to go to another reading, then he says, and well, it's not today, it's going to be adopted next week. So here's how HDZ sees us as the most representative or legislative body in the country. And for that reason I appeal once again to HDZ and to the government, please include representatives of the opposition, listen to us, tell us, this is stupid, this is smart, but we are going together to look for solutions for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198106	Thank you. Next individual debate... The next individual debate is a debate by colleagues from Peja Grbina, here are some interventions. Here you go, buddy Grbin, here you go, thank you. Careful fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198107	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will concentrate on two things that matter to me personally, and I also believe that they are important to a large number of Croatian citizens, and one especially to people from the area I come from, from Istria and the entire Adriatic coast. The first thing is, of course, a moratorium on loans. Dear fellow Shuker, saying just before me, said the law proposed by the moratorium on loans was missing. My answer is, okay, but unlike the government's proposal, at least he exists. The government has not proposed such a missing proposal, the government has proposed nothing. The government has only left it to banks and bankers that, on the basis of their own decision, their own goodwill, their own profit assessment, solve the problem of postponing the loan with their debtors. And what does it look like in practice? A few people came to me, for example, one lady has a loan, she's been paying him off for a while, 3,000 kuna, exactly 2700 kn per month. She will have to pay 6,000 kuna additional interest for the six-month delay, 6,000 kuna. 1,000 kunas have calculated the monthly bank's interest. A gentleman contacted me last year who took a loan, also at war about 3,000 kuna per month, but because he took the loan last year at this point mostly pays interest, and the principal will come in line for some better days. He will postpone by 18,000 kuna for the six months he would have paid during that period of 6 months, so to get a delay in the payment of 18,000 kuna which he will definitely have to pay, to him, the interest for those 6 months exceeds the amount of 12,000 kuna. 12,000 kuna additional interest will be paid to the bank on his loan. And you know what the worst part of it still has to be solemnized by the credit contract annex, and as an amount of course, it will account for the full amount of credit, which means that it will still have 1,500 – 2,000 kuna. So he's going to be spending six months on 15 thousand kunas. For a delay in payment of 18,000 kuna, they will pay 15,000 kuna. With all due respect, it's neither moral nor fair, nor useful. The delay, without the simultaneous delay of payment of interest or the release of interest payments, is not intended. It is only temporary assistance to citizens and citizens who will pay you the same citizens and citizens extremely expensive one day when they start returning credit. And what else is going to happen? Given the duration of only 6 months, and it is evident that many will not return to the position of paying off the loan even longer after that since it only lasts 6 months it does not achieve real effects. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, if you want to help Croatian citizens and citizens, Croatian society and the Croatian economy you do not have to accept the SDP proposal, I support what my colleague Schuker said, make it comprehensive, refer it to the procedure, I will first, I will raise my hand to him first, but you must, you must suspend the course of interest during the delay, otherwise there is no purpose. The other problem I want to talk about is the renter's problem. Household owners do not pay income tax according to actual income, but pay it according to the flat-rate rate determined according to the number of bearings in the frameworks of the prescribed law. Last year we raised the amount of sheets, we made it possible for local self-government units to go up to 1,500 kuna instead of a maximum of 300 kuna earlier, I'm talking about income tax rate, to make it quite clear. So we increased the amount multiplely and it was introduced to pay for additional beds, which was not previously the case. At present, as far as I'm aware, most or almost all of the shoppers have been delayed. However, it is quite clear, it is clear that income from the tourist season in these three months, so 4, 5 and 6, and probably not even afterwards. The delay is fine for now, but please, before the period on which the delay is given, bring a measure of the write-off of the flat-rate income tax from the tenant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198108	Thank you. Stay here please, you have one replica. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198109	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, I had to intervene because my colleague Peja is a lawyer, and I wouldn't want to give him a lecture, but when you have a loan, then you get a payment plan. In the payment plan you have a monthly war that contains war and contains interest and a bank if you do not need to pay the principal, but you have to pay the corresponding part of the interest and that is what we all need to talk about why I said it wasn't just loans to Croatian citizens and businessmen that it has full, but such a figure when you bring it out it's totally incorrect because you're not talking about the same thing, it's not interest on funds that haven't been paid for 3 months. I repeat, when you raise a loan, when you enter a Leasing relationship or anything else you get a payment plan and it is clearly based on the law you know what it contains. So this information of yours is not correct, you got it wrong, and you unfortunately misread it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198110	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My esteemed colleague Shuker didn't get it from me, it was obtained by citizens from banks asking for a postponement of the loan. It was given to the citizens of the banks, the citizens got this bill, and the banks want to charge them for it. And by the way, I know very well that there's interest on the capital. If the loan payment started last year, then you and I know very well that the principal remained intact. And that six months of paying interest on that principal will be very difficult for whoever's taking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198112	Stay still here was still a replica of a fellow Laloveca.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198113	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms I see you mentioned the tenants, but certainly what should be noted is that the government has unfortunately not thought about those who are in the lease of business premises, which are now closed business spaces and when there is no, means the contract between the tenant and the tenant is now zero kuna. However, there is no clear answer from the tax administration or the Government whether they will be charged at market value for this lease, so all these people who rent business premises will receive a fee for either VAT or income tax. So here you're talking about one category, but I think this category, too, means that they're renting business premises so that in 3 or 6 months, VAT or income taxes don't come out, especially when the market doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198114	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague, but first of all, he would direct his own representatives to the government. Last week I spoke about the problem of renting a business space and there are two problems. The first is the one you addressed, which is the fact that many tenants have freed their tenants from the rent because they are aware that they need good, good people. At the same time, however, regardless of the amount not paid by the lease, the tax administration accounts for the value added tax, but also the income tax or profit tax, and that by assessment. It's not right, and I think the ministry should address it in the relevant tax laws. However, there is another problem, and I ask you to transfer this to the Minister of State Property, which is the problem that there is no possibility in the Law on the Hire of Business Space that there is no possibility that, any state, any local self-government of freedom of the tenants from the obligation to pay or to reduce that obligation. So... We have to change that law, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198116	Thank you. Comrade Matteljan, here you go, no need for intervention, colleague Grbin didn't touch the work space, but fine, if you want then... Well, fellow Mattelian, Mathelan. Damir Mateljan, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Secretary of State. The SDP shows itself in this crisis situation, acts as a responsible and serious party. On the one hand, this is affirmative, so we have accepted in two rounds a package of measures that the Government has sent to debate in this House, which concerns helping those who are at risk of spreading the COVID-19 virus. On the other hand, we're bringing, we're proposing our own measures that unfortunately come across something like this. So, uh, the government's self-interest, the self-interest of ruling MPs actually tells us what the government thinks about these measures, or what they think about the SDP and what they feel unfortunately about the opposition. The government when it also adopted that first set of measures, including the law that we had not debated, is the Civil Protection Act, saying, so on these measures, the Government has also urged the local state to also plant its financial backs and that it is also the local state that will adapt some of its measures to help all those, whether they are citizens or those companies that have died in this crisis. The local state has also done so in a way that it could, freeing the municipal fee, the communal contribution itself, paying the market price of kindergarten so that they can survive, however, what the government did not say, what is in some way not being said, and in this House I have not heard, let alone in the media, and that is that it is, in fact, with those first and other measures that the local state has just planted its back for reasons, because that financial burden on those measures that go as free entrepreneurs is just directed at the only tax, on the only real tax which is exclusively a tax belonging to local self-government, which is income tax. Without income tax, which accounts for almost 70% of all original incomes from local self-government, local self-government can survive this month to two days. Those who are with... Which so far seemed to us to be highly developed areas, won't last a month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is very important to tell people that this one will not have preschool education, that their infrastructure local will be able to disintegrate, that there will be no public lighting, that there will be no public transport, or people need to tell, that these measures will partially save the economy and that they will completely destroy the level of local self-government that we have achieved so far. It will simply be so if we don't come up with compensatory measures that no one talks about, and I understand why no one talks about compensatory measures because there is no money for compensation measures. So when we talk about planting the backs of local self-government, then there are things that don't have just financial weight, but also that organisational weight. The famous name around the pass. Finally, the public and the government have realized that there are over 300 units of local self-government that are simply not functionally whole and cannot function in a way that in that unit local self-government citizens can achieve both rights and all their therefore things they must do, such as, the most banal going to the bank, to the post office, to the pharmacy because you have municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have no banks, no post office, no pharmacy, no elementary school or anything else. And this depends not only on their size or their critical mass, but on their capacitation, both to people and to their financial capacitation. I don't know how much time I have left, so I'm going to figure it out. So usually after all these crises we like to go out with that sentence that's total flossula, which is, we're going to come out of this crisis even stronger and stronger. [[/Intruder: 15.]] We won't. So we'll get out of this crisis weaker and worse. But I hope at least So wiser that what concerns [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The local self-government will go into this reform of the local self-government reform. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198118	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Gordan Maras, colleague Maras, come in. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. I must admit that, I have, I feel strange in this hall and all this together when a man looks at you a little bit sorry and people who work here in the organization and people from HRT because you have a feeling that this is being done as a tower at the moment of the whole situation, or the system of decision-making in the Republic of Croatia, where we, as the Croatian Parliament, are moving from the hall to the hall from Šubićeva to INU, might now be able to go to another hall, in another town, I think that the institution as a Croatian Parliament must participate more and decide in the whole crisis that is happening in the Republic. So, if as a state we do not respect our institutions, if we have a meeting president who here says that the Rules of Procedure are 100% non-respectable, I think it is one of the most recent statements I have heard in the Croatian Parliament or on the other hand says about 129 votes, it sends you a message in fact that the Croatian Parliament as an institution at the moment seems to bother the HDZ, which is also seen from the overall behaviour, work, and at the end of the day and the situation which is now the government in this Chamber, where there is usually no one else. And on the other hand, discussing such important issues in these circumstances sounds pointless, because you see that you're proposing things, very serious things. Because when you propose that citizens do not pay for a year, they have a moratorium on loans it is a very serious thing for Croatian citizens, perhaps of crucial importance to survive the next year, which will be marked by crisis, loss of work, loss of income from tourism and all that is, then I think that such a topic is shown respect for both Croatian citizens and parliament to discuss under normal conditions in front of parliamentary representatives that this topic is accepted with respect and that we eventually come together to a certain solution. Because if the opposition supports the government's measures, so what is not logical is that instead of Vice-President Sanader giving lessons to opposition deputies he takes into account what the opposition is proposing. And the other thing when we suggest also one measure, means that when it comes to parents who at the moment have a problem with organising their lives in general how to educate children, how to stay at home, how to go to work, how to combine it all together, you can't use it in the most part of the grandparents' cases because if parents do, they're exposed, so they can pass on to their children, and then their parents can't look after their children because they can get infected too, so they're huge problems. And if, at that point, we suggest that we take a model by which one parent can stay at home and pay for sick leave, as the Health Insurance Act covers some other examples, so that's a very important topic. It deserves to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, it deserves to be heard, it deserves to be considered and perhaps accepted. We can't accept the situation where the secretary of state comes and says he's not authorized to talk about it here because like he's not the finance minister or not the prime minister, they're the only ones who can. Well, we don't live in a monarchy, where one person decides what can be done, what can't be done. Although it looks like some of them are just fine with you. We live in a parliamentary democracy where parliament plays its part and I am dissatisfied with how it all works now, and I must admit that I will talk about it in the future and when we return to the Hall of the Croatian Parliament and appeal here and to the people sitting in the presidency of the assembly, and I will certainly speak to the representative of our club to simply not allow such a situation. So we live in parliamentary democracy, we're responsible people, we can contribute to this situation as painlessly as possible for our fellow citizens. We don't agree with the statements he made before Mr. Pernar I think that this time we're fighting a crisis is good, that we're all satisfied that we have very few infected and deceased in relation to other countries and we support it and we will continue to support it if it works in a quality way and on the other hand if we can participate We want to participate, we want to enable solutions that will help Croatian citizens to get through this crisis as well as we can and the more painlessly we can not do anything to get Croatian citizens to live normally as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198120	Stay here, please. We have two replicas. He's my first colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198121	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I also think that measures and what the government is doing at this point are good and that it gives good results, and we, with our SDP, as a constructive opposition with our proposals just want it to be better, especially with this third package of measures. We are thinking about the time that comes after this health crisis, meaning in a few months, because we, with our package of measures, have included exactly those citizens that the Government has not included in its activities so far. And that's why I think we should maybe listen a little bit more. And as for the functioning and work of the assembly, I agree with you and I will talk about it all the time and keep warning about it and I want once again here to underline the line that these 15 days, 20 as far as we're not in the building of the Croatian Parliament, but in the basement of the INE there are no days we joined in the order that we have the same rules. So, not to disrespect the Rules of Procedure, but there are no agreements, because today it's worth one thing, tomorrow it's worth something else, then the day after tomorrow it's worth the third, then one chairman respects one rule, the other, and that's not good. We have a Rules of Procedure which is a sacred letter to us in all situations, if anything needs to be changed, then we need to change the Rules of Procedure and we all need to adapt to that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198122	Okay, thank you, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198123	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. I think that if we function as a rule or not, by 100% of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djujic has taken 1% of the time limit on the replica, so anyone can choose for themselves if the rules don't apply to everyone. And on this side, I ask you to pass it on to the President of the Croatian Parliament that we want to function normally and that all of this together is quite nothing and that in some way Croatian citizens deserve to do it in some normal conditions, to transfer their problems, to try to solve their problems and to contribute together to this crisis as soon as possible and to allow Croatian citizens to have confidence in the institutions that represent them. The message that none sits here except Mr. Shucker of HDZ MPs is a message that automatically denys the call on joint action by HDZ [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely visible from what's going on here. [[Intruder: Next replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.]] So... HDZ with a figure in its pocket calls all opposition parties... [[/Intruder: Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198124	Comrade Maras, please. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I absolutely agree with you in your qualifications that parliament should behave in crisis situations. For example, the Hungarians had a very good solution before this happened, namely that Orban received such broad powers. According to their Constitution, in the event of an emergency, parliament is constantly sitting, no one can disband it and every 15 days the government should submit a report to Parliament which, on the basis of this report, then extends or reduces, or extends the state of emergency. The role of Parliament here should be crucial precisely because of what we talked about. Some measures are imperfect and just in the discussion with more ideas and from multiple sides and more angles, we can come up with quality solutions. One of these is the staying of one parent at home and because of small children and because of the risk of transmission of infections, so we also protect the health of the population, protect jobs because the state jumps in where it can and we try to help as much as possible. Our citizens to adapt to the new creation [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a situation. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Hajdukovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198126	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198127	Thank you. I absolutely agree with you, and I think that in this situation the most we could do is help us, given that hundreds of citizens who share their problems with us every day are talking to us. But I ask you, if we are calling for joint action and unity, where is Jandrokovic now? Where's Branko Bacic? Where are all these HDZ people who need to discuss with us the proposals that help Croatian citizens? Di, where's Ante Sanader who called the opposition SDP yesterday if he hadn't suggested anything constructive? Where are these people, why aren't they taking part here with us in this debate? Why don't they say if our proposal is good or bad? Can it or cannot it be applied? Which is why it does not allow Croatian citizens to go peacefully to Easter and not think about paying off their loans and not leave them at the mercy of their banks. Believe me, if we don't set the rules the way To be for all [[Intruder: Time.]] identically, that people know transparently what their right is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Which is what it isn't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Banks will do so in his arrangement. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] I think that It's not correct and yes [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] We should put it that way. [[Intruder: Comrade Hajdukovic, please prepare for discussion.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198128	Thank you. Please, intervention, colleague Hajdukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Here you are Mr. Hajdukovic, please, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. Here you are, colleague Hajdukovic.]] Well, unfortunately, this crisis has shown how unprepared we are for these situations in every sense. In economics, I would dare say politically, which, we are witnessing right now, organisational, logistics, social, etc., etc. Let's just take the farm. This crisis has shown our agricultural production on its knees, which is simply a victim of many years of bad policy, poor direction, non-strategic thinking. That's right, so unfortunately we're victims and in a political sense because we don't have enough culture politically to listen to everything, all the suggestions, all the problems on the table and try to deal with these problems together. I fear that HDZ's unity is only, that is, their calls for unity are only when it suits them and that their perception of community and consensus is based on "that is what you can support us, we allow you to support us". But it's not the point, it's not the purpose of parliamentary democracy. Just because there are more of us from different parts of Croatia, from different segments of life in Croatia, we can give better suggestions, we can warn of some of the problems that perhaps the Government or we as legislators have initially missed and may warn of some things that may later have serious repercusions. One of them is definitely paying off citizens' loans. Why? Many were financially planning differently, things that are unfortunately very difficult, since this epidemic, I read in one medium that about a thousand people get fired daily. If that's true, it's a terrible piece of information. In the meantime, there was also an earthquake in Zagreb, so many families in Zagreb are exposed to an additional unplanned cost of housing adaptation, if they were lucky that their apartments were still useful. For all these people, the postponement of payments, or the moratorium on the payment of loans per year, will mean little space for, to catch air, to be financially consolidated and to continue to pay their commitments. Without that beginning, I'm afraid it'll be very difficult for them, that many won't be able to repay their debts, many will lose their jobs in the meantime, we don't know how further the pandemic situation will move, as far as the economy is concerned, so we're trying to solve this equation with all the unknowns so that at least one acquaintance can be introduced into it. Also, no one has mentioned seasonal employees except for our measures so far, the 3rd package of measures. Or permanent, so-called. Permanent season. There are slightly less than 6 thousand in Croatia. These are people who, during the season, make about 6 to 7 months enough to survive the whole year and thus service their debts and all the other financial obligations they have. Since nothing's happened since the season, we need to think about protecting these exactly, slightly less than 6,000 people. If we're counting on it to be 6,000 families, then you can imagine how much repercussion could be if we don't adequately protect them. Also, people who have been fired as a consequence of the crown will be a major problem or we need to help them and take care of them, help them to stop their feet and serve them in their short - term financial obligations if God gives them no credit. Also, no one mentions employees who are at the Bureau who have no compensation. What's the number of people like that? So they have no right to any compensation for various reasons, which now because of a crisis that will become and grow into an economic crisis have no right and have no perspective of finding a job soon. It's the same segment of people we have to worry about and who we have to help. Therefore, as I have said, our measures may not be perfect, neither are the government's measures, but I believe that with one different approach, in a broader dialogue and in a dialogue with more respect, above all, from the ruling to the opposition, there would be much more quality proposals. Because I am afraid that these government proposals will need to be corrected more than once, that they will be subject to quite frequent changes and that this will create additional uncertainty among citizens but also in the economy because of the constant changes in market conditions, whether labour, whether the economy, or markets in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198130	Please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198131	My colleague Hajdukovic and I, with this proposal, are essentially concerned about citizens who have not yet felt this crisis. So, you said yourself when this health problem goes down for, we hope as soon as possible that a part of the people except for those who are unemployed and who live on the edge of poverty and those who stood up to yesterday will feel this crisis very well. And now let's say I set an example, today at the 2nd month of this year the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was about 6,500 kuna, I'm going to stick to those figures. So someone who had 6,500 kuna before this pandemic, took out a loan, planned his own life, got hit by this situation, and, say, most employers put these workers on a minimum or these 4,000 kuna due to government measures. So these workers lost 2,000, 2,500 kuna, and they'll only feel that later. This moratorium on loans means a lot to them, and it makes the situation much easier because other than preserving jobs, we encourage and spending citizens right now. in this way that these funds can be spent. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198132	Thank you, colleague Giujic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198133	I agree, fellow Djujic, that the crisis will end today, the consequences will be great and long-term. So we can't predict how many more people will lose their jobs, unfortunately, how much pay cuts, purchasing power, if it comes to question and swearing courses, it's also going to be a big problem. So there's a lot of problems waiting for us. But the same thing that's important for us to point out when we talk about our moratorium law, I think it's that those who have a good financial situation don't have to use this law. So those who have regular incomes, which will continue to have regular incomes, can choose to continue to service their debts to banks. That way, they won't be cut off as far as the payment plan or the end of their commitment to the bank is concerned, as they planned, but unfortunately I'm afraid they'll be in your minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198134	Thank you. I would like a little intervention and an individual debate from colleague Karolina Leaković. Here you go. Last reported debate, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198135	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, if we are in a crisis without precedent, and we are in the midst of the worst yet to come, and then, at least economically, then from the government and the political and economic elite as residents, it is certain that we have the right to expect solutions that will benefit the largest number of people. And these people who live on their work, not on capital, not on rent, not on inheritance, not on the accumulated, but on people, and these are the ones that live in Croatia the most, in fact, on their fair salary regardless of whether it is earned in trade, in the food industry, in transport, in services, in schools, in the hospital or in the office. If we work indefinitely on a particular one, then our contracts are extended every, every few months, maybe not always in accordance with the law, and we know that there are such situations too. He knew that the government declaredly insists on community, it's not a new word discovered, but it seems to me that for this government, a new word has been discovered, or one that is very often in the use of last weeks of solidarity. We're saying that the health crisis, or the government, is saying that we need to overcome the health crisis with common forces, appeal to the responsibility of each and every one of us, and I can certainly agree with that and I can support it. Of course, if we are not deprived of human rights in this government’s once unnecessarily restrictive decisions and, of course, if we are not deliberately deceived and tried to hide some information. We know that we have recently had such a case with the purchase of medical equipment, and we have had one case with a secret meeting in the government between the prime minister, the culture minister and the editor-in-chief of several media houses on which, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not want to present details and did not answer any questions about the meeting. The public and journalists must never, nor in this situation, remain deprived of the answers to questions about how decisions are made, why the main editors of some media houses were invited to a meeting in the government and what they were promised, to report on government measures that they would receive in return. So, unlike this solidarity when it comes to the health crisis and the epidemiological measures, when it comes to economics, I think it's hard to agree that we're all on the same boat, that it's the same for all of us, that the crisis on all of us is the same, that we all have to tighten the belt, that either we're all gonna challenge and save private entrepreneurs and their property, or we're all going to fail, and that it's not the time to question each other, and it's especially not the time to insist on working rights, on collective contracts, on collective agreements, on coefficients, says cut yourself immediately and now without any renunciation, etc., in other words socialize or share private losses, and we don't touch private profits. It has already been said today on several occasions that we have not seen how the banks have reacted in this crisis whether they have submitted part of the burden. They did not bear part of the burden, however, we saw that the owners of private companies better sent their workers and most of their workers to the stock market immediately, although perhaps they should not have done so. If we ever find out, so what is the number of those who immediately sent workers to the stock market and before measures, we will, of course, ask the Ministry of Labour and HZZ. We know there's no write-off for citizens, no lifting unnecessary banking obligations, no abandonment of performances, no appraisals. We still haven't actually made a decision about parents who care for children who don't go to school and kindergarten to determine what SDP is looking for today. We also did not make a decision that even now unemployed who have worked less than 9 months in the past 24 months have the right to compensation, this should certainly be taken into account. And there are a lot of problems that people warn us about, so I will take advantage of the opportunity with us of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health to warn him of a letter of 17 March which she sent to the Ministry, directed the Croatian Association for Rare Diseases, which warns of a special situation involving employees who are at the same time patients with autoimmune diseases, parents of chronically ill children who raise their voices and warn that they have to work, and they are very exposed to the group, so I call on the ministry to take care of their health. Ideas for the State to be a cornerstone of economic policy, economic activity to use this crisis to change the dominant political economic paradigm, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, we have yet to hear and I appeal in this regard. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198136	Thank you. And my last debate with my colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last few weeks a paradigm of relations with state institutions has changed. The rule so far is to say so to the public or most citizens in some vague situation between institutions and individuals as a rule stood aside from individuals. And lately, in this vague situation between individuals and institutions, they tend to side with the institution especially if it's the police about healthcare professionals or about someone from these now we call it the more popular service represented by the state. It is good when institutions gain greater trust from citizens, but it is never good to give non-critical trust to anyone, to either individual or to institutions. Therefore, they should always be questioned and treated critically. One of the equative examples was the police's conduct in the case of two citizens in Split who wanted to take a walk, and then there was, I would say training, unnecessary training of strictness against individuals, and there was a journalist there and it became generally known. We have then a reverse case, so in front of a church also in Split police showed much more tolerance, patience towards a priest who invited people to mass, and when the officers came to warn them that it was a violation of the headquarters's recommendations then he fell into an argument with a policeman that a police officer had finally had to interpret something from a religion, it was perhaps excessive tolerance, but somewhere between this situation the increased power of the institution I would say in relation to the rights of the individual should find a good balance. This is why it is good for us to talk about this in the Croatian Parliament live at the thematic session of the Committee on Human Rights. So, on one portal came an article about what all citizens ask the attorney general, I wouldn't say that it was an explanation of litigation with state institutions, it was really about certain individual problems of life that people came across because of this epidemic and the rapid ones, but when the measures were faster then they weren't enough, there wasn't enough thought about possible side effects that I believe had time to think about them further to be avoided. What do all the citizens actually write to the D.A.? So most often it's about people who got fired, and for various reasons they can't exercise their rights as unemployed people. Then it is about students who, because of their inability to work during the epidemic, cannot be supported and asked the competent authorities to assist students in the form of a delay in the payment of tuition. Afterwards, citizens have problems communicating with HZZ, and related to the exercise of the right for the unemployed. Most often they fail to obtain feedback on who is processing or their demands and fail to exercise rights. They are particularly numerous citizens who have jobs but who fail to work because of their obligations to young children in circumstances where kindergartens and schools are closed, then they do not know how to take care of children when they have to work again because of the end of their vacation and sick leave, then they state that despite their open-label care, employers call them to return to work, then others report that the employer determines 7-day work without rest despite the care of underage children, and then ask that the employer asks them to work even though he has not provided them with protections such as masks and gloves, then the worker reported whose employer requests to come to work personally even though he does not live in a city where he works and depends on public transportation and can't de facto come. The employers are also reporting. And that's to say, someone hired two seasons, but now he doesn't know what to do with them and their compensation, and in the end we have cases because of these passes, so he can't worry, come to visit a child living in another municipality, and he doesn't get a pass. Retired people who can't go to a bank, to a pharmacy, etc., or to a post office to raise a pension because they don't have a post office. And all these problems, I'm here, as long as I have time to count, require reaction, require reaction. an institution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198138	First, it's Mrs. Crescent. Buric, she can have an intervention at any moment, please, then colleague Schuker. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198139	Thank you. Thank you so much, Vice President HS. So, very briefly. We are here today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 5 state secretaries from 5 different ministries, now the two of us have delivered an oral opinion on the SDP package and by the fact that we were 5 out of 5 different ministries, I think it's a very clear message of respect for the promoter and I'm not saying it at all that I would be pathetic but very honest and open. Health is not everything, however, all without health is absolutely nothing and it is a saying that is more than ever proved true today. What I am also glad is that today most are in a direct or indirect way, regardless of what political groups came from, that parliamentary representatives and MPs have said that this double crisis that we are facing is strategically well-led and that we have good governance. Moreover, this is what we are talking about today, which is a package of measures, which, which is unlegislative, this government, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, has provided only so far 65 billion kuna and what I must mention, is that it is neither the first nor the last package of measures. You know that yourself. - Mrs. Crescent. Leakovic asked a question about people who had lost their jobs in this crisis, and that is why we are talking about the number of about 13,000 people, newly unemployed, which is why the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, or the executive body of the Croatian Employment Service yesterday, included in the criteria for obtaining support for the preservation of jobs, the possibility that employers who report to this support should these people return to work, that they can get that support for them too, so we are talking about support from 4 thousand kuna. There he is. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198140	Stay, you have one more replica, please. Thank you very much. [[- Yeah, good.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk. [[Intruder: Please.]] Thank you. So then, no, no, wait, wait, there's another line, don't leave yet, there's a colleague named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198141	Thank you. State Secretary. It's a good-looking jump, "Health isn't everything, but without health, we're nothing." Did I quote correctly? [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] The saying, it's more to me, it's to be honest, it's more to me to jump. [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] But health protection can't be a front for anything to be done. You can't do everything. So, you need to balance between health, among other segments of life, and you know what our Constitution says, what's everything? Thus, even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the state, the right to life, to ban torture, cruel and humiliating treatment and punishment, thoughts, freedom of mind, conscience, and religion cannot be limited. That's all. So, I agree on the importance of what you've said, but I'm not in favour of such rhetoric justifying possible restrictions on everything and everything for health, but I like the saying, now it's not, it's good, but it's not good for political game. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198142	Here, answer, secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198143	Thank you, Honorable Representative Bauk. So I repeat again. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to preserve health, protect health, on the other hand, preserve jobs, stand behind all Croatian entrepreneurs and workers and try and help and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198144	Thank you, too. Now my colleague Schuker is on behalf of the MPs' club final. I'm just asking for my colleagues' intervention. Thank you. How? I don't doubt you, just what I'm stressing. Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198145	Thank you very much. Well, I answered about three things. The first was once in the Croatian Parliament to have mutual respect among MPs and respect for what the MPs wanted to say. Unfortunately, however, those who spoke most today about how there are no MPs in the Assembly, now there are none in the assembly. There are four of us left. The other thing I wanted to say, I'm honest, but really this is what I tell you out of the soul, after all, and my debate was like this, I expected that colleagues from the SDP who have been reported for discussion each by one or two laws will try to explain the legal proposals to us, and with this, a couple of colleagues who have mentioned certain things, we haven't heard anything. We heard attacks on the government. This is what the Government likes, so eventually on the President of the Parliament, on this, on that, etc., I think today was a debate to fight, not to conflict, to oppose opinions and to think about how to solve this crisis. And lastly, yesterday, I just got this information, the EU Commission confirmed HBOR's portfolio loan scheme for liquidity, so much so that I'm going to mention again and apostrophe my colleague Lalovec, the two of us, no matter what we're from different clubs, are saying that at this point we need to secure funds from all possible sources, and this is just another confirmation that the government is working on all fronts. Some things can be spoken publicly, and some things can be spoken of only when they happen. It is a good thing that anyone who has any knowledge of professional everyday life as a proposal in the Croatian Parliament, but look at colleagues and colleagues, maximum respect and according to this institution was that the colleagues from the club who proposed this legislative proposal would be more present in this debate, it would simply point to the seriousness of this proposal, this is not reading any lesson, but when you give the political rival a chance for creamworth then it would be a shame not to take advantage of it. And how seriously you think about these suggestions of yours is best shown by those who spoke of them, I say honor with exceptions, and these exceptions remain now and in the assembly, the best shows how many people are left in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198146	Thank you, too. My colleague Bauk, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is final, and I apologize on behalf of the Proposer, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Proposer 10, 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Shuker, Honored Representative Hajdukovic, Honored representative Leakovic, the esteemed vice president, then what you should welcome yourself to, I thank you. So, first of all, the SDP Club didn't choose the time of the debate, we got it this afternoon, we could discuss it tomorrow morning, it might end something more, it might be a little more media attention, but the debate is in line with 90% of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, these 10% of what the president of the day said to adapt it to the situation. We think it was our responsibility to propose a package of measures to help citizens in the first place because some of these proposals can happen in a very similar way from the government in the next month, it can happen. Well, then we'll have what you just said about creamworth, and we'll be able to say we told you or we suggested. And I don't see that that's some big problem, it's a political competition in these circumstances of the epidemic. So when a normal boxing situation without gloves is put on a little thicker gloves and watch every word, and sometimes some of our colleagues still fail to resist calling to cross that fine line between this constructive community that we witness and regular situations. So I would, however, be encouraged by criticism from fellow Shucker once again, briefly said what our proposals were, so 10 measures to help citizens affected by the pandemic. First fee of at least 4,000 kuna per month in the next 3 months for unemployed people who were fired. Then a fee of half a minimum salary per month or 1,625 kuna for the unemployed on the stock market and do not receive any compensation. Permanent seasons fee at a minimum salary of 3,250 kuna per month, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for social assistance users, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for pensioners with small pensions as well as for all persons below the income censorship, a cancellation of the RTV subscription for pensioners with small pensions and social assistance users. Subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna per month for renting the apartment for all of the most affected groups. Terminate the execution and increase the amount of wages exempt from the performance, issue of bank cards for blocked citizens for the on-line transaction, abolishing charges on-line transaction as in crisis conditions no physical contact. I don't think I've even listed all these suggestions. I believe that we will also get a written statement from the government before voting on our proposals, so that, since they have been proposed last week, and I can know the work and functioning of the government agree that maybe there was not enough time to get the government's written statement, but until the vote, since we now have a week's break, we can really get the government's written statement on our bill proposals, too, so that the foundation of them and the foundation of the government's work in the future would allow us to see how much these arguments have been justified, and how much they were merely the fruit of us proposing something without the government's proposal. It's the same thing in political life that's possible. I also believe that the assembly will find time to discuss perhaps in a united debate, such as today, proposals from other promoters, not only the SDP Club, but also other proposings, and that we will have to decide whether we are still in this situation in the constructive community as it is said, but it is not a good way not to accept any proposal, or any amendment of the opposition. Then indeed, as counterpart Maras said, we may be serving as a tower, and at the same time the bodies that make decisions are especially spared, excluded from criticism, the Maltas do not welcome any criticism against them on the knife as if they were protected from criticism or as if I were going to say it without a problem, holy cows, so there are no sacred cows in democracy. But what matters is that their decisions should be implemented and respected, but it is allowed and desirable if they are not good critics because they have also created certain problems for citizens who may still be less than the problems that have been spared by the citizens, for example, I think most of all about preventing the spread of the infection. I thank again everyone who participated, thank the state secretaries from all five ministries, especially my colleague Buric and colleagues from the health ministry who was Plazonic, where he was a representative in the previous assembly of the parliament, but I was afraid not to make a mistake, who remained until the end and representatives, especially colleagues Suker who stayed until the end. I hope that, on our return to the Croatian Parliament, we will continue with the normal dynamics of the debate, that the Parliament will remain a place of control of the government and to prevent the arbitrary conduct of a body that is not good when they have no control and that I believe that other colleagues, whether they are from a position or opposition, will contribute. So, I think that in Croatia, we have long fought for democracy so that only so democratic institutions would now deprive their constitutional powers. Some laws could be passed today by agreement and by a two-thirds majority, but the Constitutional Court will then discuss it well, and for everything else we see next week in the new debate, in the new confrontations of opinions, I believe in new constructive decisions that citizens will be able to cope with this crisis as easily as possible. It will be easy if this lasts for two months, but if it lasts longer then the end of the epidemic will sooner be declared by the Minister of Finance than the Minister of Health because suddenly our alternative will die from hunger or from the crown of the virus becoming a general alternative. Therefore, we can endure for some time, but we also need to think about the scenarios of how to live in co-existence with the coronary virus with the least consequences for society, for citizens, for the economy and for the way we're used to living until the middle of the 3rd month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198148	Thank you. That concludes the debate on a set of ten laws, we'll vote on them when the conditions are met. Another information for counterpart Leaković, a colleague of Hajdukovic, a colleague of Shuker and a colleague of Bauk, the work of the Parliament continues on Wednesday 15th April at 9.30 p.m. on Mark's square with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Coastal Research Security, Carbon Exploitation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 821. Thank you very much and the secretary of state for being here. I wish everyone a happy Easter. Goodbye. SESSION DISCONTINUED
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198149	Final draft law supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 889., the promoter is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law, which the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the proposal has not received enough votes, that the law has not been passed, 39 for, 3 abstentions, 74 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198150	Let's move on to the agenda. We have already agreed to conduct a joint discussion on the set of 6 laws proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club and one joint SDP representative's club and representative Goran Aleksic's team, and on three proposals for a conclusion submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, these are: - Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the Law on Contribution, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal for the Act on the Law on Obligors, First and Second Amendments, - Final Proposal for the Law on the Complementary of the Law on the Morals, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal of the Law on Obligations, the Emergency Act on the Taxes, the Second Amendments of the Act, the Second Amendments, the Second Amendment of the Act, the Act on the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Protection of the Act, the Law on the Act, the Second Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Rec, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Protection of the Law on the First, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the First, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law on the Law of the First, the First, the Law on the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the First, the Law on the Law on the Law, the Law of the Law, the Law, the Law, the Law of the First Act, the Law, on the Law on the Law of the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law, the Law, the First Act, the Law, the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on the Working of the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice. The government didn't deliver an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198151	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning, we warned a month and a half ago about the effects of the crisis caused by the coronary virus. Three weeks ago, we went out with our first package with more than 15 measures to help citizens and preserve jobs. Our measures were not then adopted by the government. Since the first government measures that followed only by our measures were too focused on prolongation, on delays, and they were not enough help for entrepreneurs, nor their employees, and time was leaking, the SDP sent our second package of more than 10 laws to save the economy and jobs, which we are unfortunately considering today. The second package comes today after voting on the government's package, shows in fact only demeaning and opposition, but also citizens, especially those citizens who have lost their jobs in the last two weeks due to late government reactions, over 20,000 of them as well as those citizens who at this point fear losing their jobs. Further demeaning comes precisely because the government was not even ready to manifest itself on this proposal. This only shows the relationship that currently exists in Croatia with all those who are trying to constructively help their proposals the poorest, most endangered, unemployed and other most vulnerable groups of citizens who are going through a severe crisis in Croatia thanks to the coronary virus. It is precisely because of a late reaction from the Government that the SDP proposed in the second package a write-off, not just a postponement of taxes and contributions, and we have suggested that we exempt the payment of profit tax for all entrepreneurs because this is not a time in which they can simply or should credit the state. Secondly, we have proposed the release from the payment of the flat-rate tax for craftsmen and small tenants due to special circumstances because they are closed due to the decision of the headquarters and we have proposed to write down 100% of the contributions for salaries to employees during the duration of the crisis simply so that they can help these people because they are closed by the decision of the headquarters due to the crown of the virus. After a very high public pressure, after we had pushed in the SDP for the past three weeks, offered to the Croatian public, and also to the Croatian government to help solve these problems in trying to preserve jobs, after pushing them to move faster, to simply do more in the direction of protection and employers, but also jobs, only one step was taken to help the economy. Therefore, the proposals for a write-down of taxes and contributions were accepted. But now you need at this specific moment of help right now to the citizens, to do what is not done. Help those most vulnerable, workers, but also unemployed, parents who stay with children at home, but also those workers who stay at home alone in self-insulation, as well as those on the first line of defense against the epidemic. Therefore, the SDP continues to insist on its second package of laws to help preserve jobs and therefore we still feel that our proposals are needed at this point. It is necessary to increase the basis for compensation for self-insulation workers to the average salary level because this fee of 2100 kuna is simply too small for a man's life. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide paid leave to at least one parent who spends time at home with his child under 12 years of age, especially since in this situation the parent is particularly affected at work. It is also necessary to increase the amount of non-taxable payments to help employers in particularly sensitive activities in the root of the crisis to reward their workers, especially those now on the first line of defence against the epidemic and helping Croatian citizens not to lack anything, so that they can reward traders, so that they can reward pharmacists, drivers, workers and logistics workers, as well as security guards, those whose simple work in these difficult times has not stopped but is even more pronounced. 4. it would be responsible to enable workers who are at risk of a job due to the crisis to pay 75% of the salary, up to a maximum of 5,100 kuna, it is a small cost to the state, and it is certainly a guarantee of a much better life for those people who cannot work in these conditions. And they can't work primarily on sectors for which Croatia's GDP depends most, it's tourism and hospitality. Tourism reminds me that it accounts for over 20% of our GDP, when tourism and hospitality are at stake in the government in this segment has done absolutely nothing, practically nothing but petty cosmetic and technical changes. We recall that the SDP has proposed to abolish the obligation to pay the flat-rate tax for small tenants, we have also proposed to abolish the obligation to pay advances for artisan craftsmen and to abolish certain parafiscal duties including the flat-rate amount of tourist tax and membership fee to the tourist community during the crisis. And I remind you that we will continue to insist that VAT in tourism and catering goes to 5% especially at this time of crisis, as we today insist that VAT on food delivery goes to 0% because we believe that in these difficult times, especially in the circumstances of the crisis when people order delivery needs to act on one hand and to reduce prices, but also to reduce taxes to those who have suffered the most damages due to the crisis, and these are the caterers. At a time of crisis, we must be solid, especially us politicians who represent citizens, especially those who are most affected by this crisis and who have lost their jobs or gone to a minimum. We therefore propose that for the next three months, parliamentary representatives and other state officials, other than those on the first line of defence against the virus, work for a minimumer to solidarity with a number of citizens who will be affected by this crisis, and unfortunately more and more in Croatia. 70,000 social assistance users, 240,000 blocked, more than 400,000 citizens living below the poverty threshold of 1,940 kuna, mostly part of the pensioners. In just two weeks of the crisis primarily due to a late government reaction, over 20,000 workers are jobless, another 400,000 fear for losing their jobs. For 5,500 permanent seasons and over that number as well as for more than 100,000 people registered on the stock market, and now they are not receiving any compensation for the simple prospect of employment is almost completely destroyed due to the crisis and they need help. So, it's over a million of the most vulnerable who can't pay the directors soon, can't pay the rent for the apartment, can't pay the loans. It is already clear that this crisis will take, in particular, a recovery from the crisis, so that we insist in the SDP that it is necessary to secure the moratorium on loans for a year, not just three months, and in a way that the interest is calculated in order to ensure on one hand the safety of entrepreneurs to continue their business, but in order to make them the most important thing, to ensure that citizens continue their normal lives without fear and uncertainty. It is necessary at this point to suspend and tighten interest, we have also suggested and is in this set of laws to help the economy and preserve jobs. So I want to say, in the SDP, we will continue to insist on the moratorium, on paying off loans for a year, but we will also insist on our third package of measures to help the citizens we presented the other day, which includes. First, a fee of 4,000 kuna per month in the next three months for unemployed people who were fired because of the root crisis, thanks to a late reaction from the government, a protection supplement of 750 kuna per month for all users of social assistance, etc. The minimum fee guaranteed is 70,000, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for all those who have income below the poverty threshold, so it's between 350 and 400,000 people below the threshold of 1,940 kuna per person for the most part of the pensioners, so these are pensioners with small pensions. We will insist on a fee of half the minimum wage, i.e. $1,625 per month for the unemployed currently on the stock market, who do not receive any remuneration and whose chance of employment has been completely destroyed due to the crisis, we will insist on continuing seasons at a minimum wage of 3,250 kuna per month of them 5,500, simply people have to live on something. Also, we propose to abolish the RTTV subscription precisely for these most affected layers of citizens, as well as a subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna renting the apartment for these mentioned categories, of course for people who are hired. What I would particularly like to put an emphasis on, I would like to stress that our legal proposals to be referred to in the procedure will require a suspension of the performance and an increase in the amount of pay free of charge, as well as the issue of bank cards blocked with a certain spending limit and the abolition of transactions i.e. compensation for transactions in online payments simply so that under the conditions of the crisis there will be no physical contact. We believe that these measures are very concrete, that they are implemented and that they should act quickly to help the most vulnerable groups of citizens, unemployed, pensioners, permanent seasons, social assistance users. I call on the government to consider them and to respect them as she has already complied with some of our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198152	Thank you. Continuing, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198153	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would only briefly comment on the moratorium law on the loans of debtors why it matters. In his statement, the CNB made public, i.e. according to the recommendations of the European Central Bank or the European Banking Supervisory Mechanism in Frankfurt, it said for a year that you have a framework for all business entities and citizens not to go to... claims. In other words, what does that mean? The CNB, or regulator, has already given a year to all business banks how to treat claims in their books, which means that banks already have the opportunity to do so. What does it matter? If this crisis, we all know, and we're aware that it can't end in three months, if the banks start to collect claims after three months, but now we have a liquidity problem, they'll simply suck all the money out of the system. If businesses and citizens come to them after three months, all these amounts, simply when the economy needs to be returned if they are bank priorities they will simply suck all the money out of the system if they have insurance instruments, they can charge much better from the state, they can be charged sooner than the state. And that's why it's important to calm down if we're saving the economic system now, now we're saving the economy of the Republic of Croatia. After three months, banks cannot be a priority over the state and cannot be a priority over other suppliers. And that's why it's important, and all the legal mechanisms have to be very good at controlling the whole process now. And here's why our intensity was to go with this moratorium for a year, only to those who are in liquid problems, only to those citizens who are at a minimum and only to those who are at risk, that they are simply given the opportunity to cope in that particular period of time. But what I'm warning you all the time is that it's simply our biggest fear of liquidity, liquidity or the insolvency of the system, that the system doesn't crack in the 6th month, is that we won't be able to get foreign exchanges about tourism and that simply when the economy starts to turn to make priority to suppliers and to pay bills, and only later will the banks that have the biggest capital and later come to the state that when the economy starts and collects their claims. Here's what I'd like to ask my colleague, Alexic, if that's what we agreed on for the last words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198154	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198155	I thank the SDP first of all for inviting me to propose with them the Moratorium on Loans Act, as this is my area of action since the beginning of the Croatian Parliament of the Bank, credit institutions, debts. I also note that it is very good that certain measures of force are also proposed in this third package, it will be proposed that we already proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia deblocking accounts, bans on enforcement, cards to everyone for free, free Internet banking, all this is important in these moments to enable citizens. The SNAGA party has proposed 16 measures in total, but I would now say something more about these moratories because it is the subject of exposure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has announced as one of the measures of the moratorium on the payment of the loan claim, as announced by the government of the Republic of Croatia, however, the government has not proposed a binding measure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has obviously discussed this with banks because banks have offered moratories to citizens, but these moratories include the calculation of interest, and these interest rates reach the day the moratorium ceases to operate and then they are deployed to wars or whatever bank it intends to negotiate with its debtors. It's not a moratorium. Such a moratorium of banks approve consumers, businesses, anyone and in a normal situation, therefore it is not a moratorium that must be made possible in the current crisis situation. In the current crisis situation, a moratorium must be allowed to collect claims from loans without interest and without any other charges being charged. If the moratorium lasts a year, and it should take a year, because the crisis will not stop the day the virus stops working, but the crisis will continue, because we will all be in the most citizens' problems, businesses less because they will start working, which is why the measure needs to be extended for a year. And it is easy to reduce the measure in the meantime if there is a better situation between citizens and businesses. Croatian banks can handle this measure without a problem. Croatian banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is excess liquidity. What does that mean? This means that they have 34 billion kunas of their own money that they can do whatever they want to do because they are not obliged to account for that money to anyone. And these 10 billion I said now seem to have fired the CNB in the last tranche another number of billions, so their liquidity is even greater than, that excess liquidity is even more than 34 billion kuna. Therefore, the banks must wait for the payment, and in addition the banks are obliged to the Croatian citizens who have robbed for the course of the franc, for the payment of interest that was illegal for a total of 20 billion kuna, hence those banks that are due to all of us, and perhaps for those of you who are here with me now, perhaps some of you banks owe us, and the banks they owe us should not now be charged in the annuity crisis. What's still missing, and what we haven't covered by the law is the licking, so the licking should be covered by the moratorium, it's primarily important for those companies that deal with transport, so they've got to get to licking buses, some other means of transport or the means of working in agriculture, so it's not working for them now, they need to be given a lysing moratorium because they don't fit at this time. So there are a series of measures still missing, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider this bill that we have put into the SDP procedure and I as Parliament's representative of the SNAGA party. I hope you will also consider this new package of measures mentioned by my colleague Bernardic, about cards, about unblocking citizens, about breaking up accounts, about free Internet banking. I don't think there's gonna be a problem with that, the government hasn't done it yet, but I don't think the government will have a problem with that, and that if the government doesn't even accept this proposal, they're going to prepare their proposal the way the government thinks it's best and they're going to put it in the process within about 7 to 10 days. Here's thank you for listening very carefully to what I've put forward and I hope you'll accept all of it in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198156	Thank you to Reverend Goran Aleksic. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinovic has a request for the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198157	... in accordance with Article. 248. The Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work seek a five-minute break in front of the club Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to warn the citizens and here present representatives of the complexity, the additional complexity of this economic situation in Croatia for which this second round of measures will not be sufficient today. In that sense, and thus I want to change Croatia constructively to this proposal for a package of measures that is now being discussed, I would like to draw particular attention to the second pension pillar. I'm looking for and I suggest, respected citizens, that they all be deposited in another pension column frozen during the crisis. Why? Because every month, on average, about 500 million kuna is paid into the second pension column, which is about 6 billion kuna a year. Now imagine how much it would mean, respected citizens, 500 million kunas every month during the crisis that you can get that money that's missing from the state, that you can pay minimum workers who have lost their jobs, social cases, those who are seasons that no one sees or asks what they're doing somewhere in between. Therefore, I think it is very important and we take advantage of this situation, we are ready, we have excellent economic experts in the party to change Croatia, we use this crisis to start reforming the second pension pillar, to transform it, to give people freedom to transfer their money or to the first pension column where they will guarantee the state or to the third liberal so that they can be rich or lost, but the time is so. If we do this, we will drastically reduce public debt, repair public finances and contribute to saving the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198158	Thank you. I'll have a break by 14.50. THE PURPOSE
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198159	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.50 HOURS]] So we have three replicas, we have two replicas at the exhibition of our colleagues Bernardic, we have one replica on the presentation of our fellow Lalovec. First fellow Maras at the fair of fellow Bernardic. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you explained a whole series of laws that I don't think it's a good thing we didn't discuss before the vote today, because some proposals are certainly still very current and we just need to apply them. One such proposal is also the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act where we predicted that one parent should be allowed to stay with his child if both parents work because we know that school doesn't work, that our children are home. We must thank parents who at this time are making a great effort to make up for this situation that is with their children, teachers who send tasks parents must work because they simply have to gain knowledge. And it would be much easier if the state would allow one parent to be at home with his child and do what is necessary. Here's what I want you to further comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198161	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198162	Dear colleague Maras. Maybe that's why you said that we don't actually have the government's opinion today because if they asked anyone responsible from the health care system of any epidemiologist, you'd say that for the possibility of spreading the infection isn't as good as our thousands of citizens do, going to work with children because they don't have anywhere to leave them. They're going with little boys, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia it hasn't been recorded yet, but we've seen that young people and children can be infected around the world and unfortunately the coronarys of the virus are dying. Not to mention when you bring a child to work, that virus can spread faster. So I can't believe that in a month there's no understanding, no sense, no common sense when it comes to treating parents who should stay home with their children for up to 12 years to prevent and spread the infection, but to make their lives much more pleasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198163	Thank you. The next replica of a colleague of the coat of arms on a colleague of Bernardic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Maras spoke of one important measure, and I would single out one other which seems to me to be extremely important for Croatian citizens, which is a matter of moratorium on loan payments. What the government of the Republic of Croatia has agreed with Croatian business banks and what business banks are giving based on their decision is all but a moratorium. It is a delay, a delay that citizens and citizens will pay dearly because during the duration of that delay they will be charged interest on the entire principal of the loan. So, in this way, the banks will actually cost 6 months of delays to Croatian citizens and make extra money in this way. That is why I believe that this may be the most important measure of all that we have proposed, and I absolutely advocate its adoption and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198165	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198166	First of all, thank you, fellow coat of arms, for that observation. That's what we're going to insist on, it's inadmissible that at this difficult moment the banks are reaching for additional profits in those who are unhappy with this crisis, which are the most endangered. And it is unacceptable for the government to calmly observe that additional interest is being charged on loans that people can no longer pay, especially those 20,000 people who are out of work thanks to the late government reaction or those 400,000 who fear that they will lose their jobs because simply those companies where they work today are closed. And that's why it's necessary, and that's why we're going to insist on making a moratorium on loans for the citizens for a year, but in a way that doesn't account for any extra interest because it's absolutely certain that this crisis is going to last and that we're going to need some more time to get out of this crisis. That's why we've been looking for a year, not any less prolongation periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198167	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask a colleague of Lalovec and a colleague of Maras you have a replica on a colleague of Lalovec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198168	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, I'd like to comment on the situation regarding the delay and moratorium on the loans. At this point, we have a situation that is not regulated and defined, so some banks haven't charged loans by this date until they see that citizens are applying for them to process and examine it in some way who would have the right and who wouldn't have the right. But I think and I think it would be normal for the state to regulate the system and know exactly what situation citizens are entitled to the moratorium for a year and on the other hand to protect them from the uncertainty of the next months and the next year. Because we know all seasons will be zero, over 300,000 people will be out of a job very soon, 300,000 took advantage of the possibility of being on the minimal offered by the government, the state has to do it urgently, so we don't have time to wait because the banks already recognized certain problems I think the state should too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198169	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198170	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, for asking. That's why the SDP also proposes a moratorium for a year, precisely because this won't be over in three months, only at 6 and 7 months we'll see the state of unemployment in society, we'll see that a number of companies that will only then open their doors at 6 and 7 months start from zero, let's not forget that they start from scratch that these three months of moratorium mean nothing to them. These companies will all take more than a year to recover their pre-crisis traffic. And because of this, when these companies start from zero, they will likely have minimally certain revenues, no tourism, no economic activity, and therefore it is important that in the 6th, 7th and 8th months when economic activity is due to return, not all banks will be frozen to purchase all of the liquidity from the system and thus will still cause economic recession and therefore we expect a very fast liquidity fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198171	Thank you. Now the government's representatives will give an additional explanation in a united call it a 15-minute debate with you being able to replicate each and every one of them, they will change. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198172	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In addition, to the set of legal regulations as well as the conclusions proposed in this agenda, a total of 10, what was introduced and said in view of the government's obligation to give its position and opinion, which for obvious reasons is the speed of action, given that these proposals are also by emergency procedure, here I use the opportunity to present at least in this section as regards the Ministry of Finance, so colleagues in their section. I would just like to begin by thanking my colleagues from the SDP and everyone who voted today for these legal regulations adopted by this House of Commons, proposed by the Government in order to mitigate the effects of the coronary epidemic of the virus. So far, we have had two packages of legislation in March and now in this month, totaling 32 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 18 decisions and 3 conclusions are all aimed at protecting the health of citizens, and, of course, preserving jobs and preserving the liquidity of businesses so that the economy can survive at all. In this regard, because of sustainability and the state budget itself, they would point out that in this way and in this way these measures so far have been developed by the Government in terms of citizenship, and solidarity and synchronisation in the work of all components of society is more than necessary and important to emerge from this crisis as little as possible and that the economy and society can function as a whole. As regards the legal rules that came from the Ministry's domain, there were five, the General Tax Law as a roof regulation that regulates the relationship between the tax authority and the taxpayer through whose... we went to regulate all these provisions concerning the suspension of payments to ultimately write down claims all under the tax code through the General Tax Code. This is what we wanted to shorten the procedures and go line-by-line in that part of taxation, all of the norms went through the General Tax Law, and now, after today's vote of law, of course, will be accessed and drawn up by the regulations themselves, which will set the deadlines where they are needed in terms of moving deadlines, as is, for example, allowed through the amendment of the Accounting Act, but in this section through the Regulation they will be allowed to be now 30.6. or some other date due to this operationality daily because the situation is changing, they can be freely said from day to day. So it's very important to know that as we know we have the main factor or factor in this whole situation completely unknown, it's the length of the duration of this crisis, and with its length and impact on the economy. Therefore, this dosing of measures that the state budget can take or will have to pass through some other types of funding must be such that it is sustainable, that it generally exists as a state budget. As regards these provisions of some of these proposals, I would just like to mention, for example, the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act where an untaxable reward for risk-related risks to elemental disasters is proposed, I would like to remind you that we already have these provisions in norms as untaxable including health care that was previously untaxable. So I'm really sorry, and I wouldn't want it to turn out that we don't want to meet all these good demands that are being proposed here, but since the regulations that are mutually synchronised are both the Ministry of Finance and the other members of the government. Certain proposals here are somewhat contrary to some of the activities that we have today supported by the government's adoption of these legal proposals. Of course, as far as the third round that the prime minister announced in terms of measures related to citizens is concerned, I believe the next measure, and which you are now pointing out here, and I assume that this will have more to say to the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198173	Thank you. I'm asking the next representative of the government. So on your show we have three replicas, we'll do that later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198174	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. I present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in oral form on the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the amount of support to preserve jobs in activities affected by the Crown virus, the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament not accept this proposal for a conclusion on increasing the amount of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the virus virus submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives' Club. First of all, I must stress that the focus of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to protect health, as well as to preserve all jobs and fight for every job. We stand firm behind Croatian workers, and in this sense there is a measure and all the other measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken. The meeting, held on 2 April 2020, concluded on the second group of measures to help the economy resulting from an outbreak of the coronary virus and the implementation of all these measures provided 65 billion kuna, I repeat 65 billion kuna. And for the support we are talking about, support for job conservation is provided 8.5 billion kuna and according to the current projections that we have, this measure will cover 500,000 workers. In accordance with the policy of preserving jobs, the amount of support to preserve jobs in sectors affected by the coronary virus has been increased from 3,250 kuna, as you know to 4,000 kuna per worker for April and May of this year, and employers using those support will also be freed from the cost of corresponding contributions. Just to remind you, the state is also carrying the burden of paying a contribution of around 1,500 kuna. And what I must especially point out is that on today, therefore, on 7 April, we have received 84,000 requests for about 500,000 workers, and only so far have we paid 600 million kuna. You remember that some day already the employers who applied and whose application or application was valid that one day they sat down 600 million kunas in total for a job-preservation measure or support. What I must also particularly stress and remind is that both employers and workers and trade unions and the entire Croatian public have, to a great extent, praised this measure of support for the preservation of jobs. The level of support is set at 4,000 kuna in order to cover as I have said as many workers as possible, to ensure the necessary material protection, to keep people in employment and to facilitate the business of employers under special circumstances and, of course, to account for available financial opportunities. What I must also point out when we talk about support for job conservation, it also existed in the past crisis that lasted during the SDP, but I must state that at that time the support for the preservation of jobs was consumed in 4 years only 2,008 times. Well, thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198175	Time, please. We have two replicas on your exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198176	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. As for the Ministry of Justice's portfolio, we have already repeated several times that with due attention, given the circumstances in which we are working on several amendments to the current legislative proposals. First of all, the executive procedures at this point have stopped. It is our recommendation to the public notaries to make all the public notes available for deadlines that will run when this situation continues. So our recommendation is that public notebooks make executive solutions, but don't send them to the executives until they pass the circumstances caused by the COVID-19 crisis. Also in the following days, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take new measures to fully halt the executive procedures until the elements of this health threat have passed. As regards the proposal to reduce the tightening interest rate on trade relations and contracts between traders and public rights persons, we believe that, although we appreciate the proposal's intention, it was not only in this particular section that the other relations were taken into account. Also in the non-standard part, it is not explained until the end, which means this feedback and justification of such feedback in view of the situation that has arisen since the day we declared the pandemic, which is 19 March 2020. Considering everything that you have suggested the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also working on this set of legal changes that will come in a package with a resolution of laws relating to the Ministry of Justice. The question of deadlines is also a matter of several laws, with due regard to the specificity of the issue of deadlines at the Ministry of Justice, we have proposed and in a few days everything about deadlines will be available to the public in order not to question the functioning of the judicial system as a whole. I repeat, it is not time for us to speak politically now, professionally with the justice portfolio we will do everything to address the issue of blocked citizens in a few days, the issue of enforcement in a way that will stop until the circumstances that require the situation to be normal in the Croatian state continue in a way that we can work on the new Executive Law, and that we now do in this part of the crisis stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198177	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives of colleagues and colleagues. Here before I start reading what I'm going to say today given these points that I would just remind everyone present today that today is World Health Organization Day, and we can especially speak with pleasure because we all know very well that one of the founders, and surely the first president of the World Health Organization was ours. Andrija Printer. First, he would refer to the proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I must say that the legal proposal suggests that one of the parents has the right to pay wages during the temporary prevention to work for the care of a child up to 12 years of life for the closure of educational institutions and that is, if the reasons for the closure of a health or safety nature are on the burden of HZZO funds. Since the rights provided under compulsory health insurance rights are directly linked to the use of healthcare in the existence of a disease or medical indication to achieve the same, that issue cannot be regulated by the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and cannot be achieved on the burden of the means of compulsory health insurance because there is no medical indication for the same in the sense of the Health Insurance Act. The second promemory is mine, which speaks of the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the maximum or maximum monthly amount of salary compensation, on the burden of HZZO assets, isolated or self-insulated employees due to the Covida-19 epidemic. This proposal proposes to increase the maximum monthly amount of salary compensation on the burden of HZZO funds to isolated or self-insulated employees due to an outbreak of covids and to the amount of the average salary in the Croatian Republic in January 2020. The proposal is not acceptable without the provision of additional funding from the state budget and therefore we do not agree with the proposal of this law Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198179	Thank you. Please give me just stay here, and we'll go the other way because we have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, followed by his colleague Maras. And I apologize to Anka's colleague, Mr. Taritash. Just stay, so you can answer immediately that we don't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198180	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State and I join in reminding ourselves that today is the World Health Day, especially dedicated to nurses and midwives who make a really big contribution to this fight. What I want to ask you is, are you in charge of ensuring the financial stability of this system in the ministry, because after the end of the crisis, the situation will be even worse, and therefore I appeal that, at the same time with the fight against the crown of the virus, you lead and fight to save the financial stability of the health system when the coronary crisis is over. Also, since we have all received a letter from the Chamber of Health Care Professionals of a special segment of health laboratory activity, to withdraw from the e-consultation of the law currently in the debate on medical biochemical activity because it is not in conformity with all stakeholders and is a discrimination against the employees of the laboratory profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198181	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198182	I would refer to this first part, to this second part, I think we've talked a lot about it, and I think that when this entire epidemic of Corona virus passes, we'll have plenty of time to talk about it in peace. As far as the financial situation is concerned, the fact is that we are now in a special position to provide health care to all those who have suffered from Covidom-19 infection and that this is our priority because it means not only that we have to provide financial resources for the adaptation of our hospital spaces, for the opening of respiratory centres, for the unification of certain functions of intensive care, intensive therapy, the acquisition of apparatus etc., etc., so for now we in one part would say reduced health work on issues of more selective procedures, and to the maximum focus on what cannot wait, and these are clearly medical emergencyes and malignant diseases, in this respect we have maximum orientation. and technical and financial, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198183	Thank you. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198184	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, as I understand from your debate, the government, or the state, has no money to pay to allow parents to stay, at least one of the two employed parents to stay with their children at home. When we estimated what the amount would be for the next period, we came to some billions of kunas if we used that exactly all in the Republic of Croatia in such a situation, which probably wouldn't be the case. But it's amazing to me that for our children, for parents who have to work with them on their home education, who have to take care of them, try to be sure in some way not to expose them to this whole situation under the motto "stay home" the government says there's no money for it. For some other things that cost the same thing, there's money. Now, you explain to me why the government can't find the money to keep each of our parent employees at least one of them, with their children at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198185	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198186	So I can't speak on behalf of the government, I'm not Prime Minister or Prime Minister, but I can say what and repeat what I said today and today this part of the financial compensation is not part of it, not part of which would be the health insurance from which patients who need to finance the health system as a whole are financed. So he just can't get into this law. If the government has money from some other means, I can't say it right now because I'm neither Minister of Finance nor Prime Minister, but I can't get into HZZO health insurance, it's not the same, there's no place for that legal space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198187	A fellow Maras injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198188	Thank you very much. The 238th article was injured, you here Mr. Secretary of State said you couldn't answer because you're neither Prime Minister nor Minister of Finance, and why did you come here to give your opinion on it? Are you just here to convey greetings and messages or represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about this law? You must give us an answer if you are a representative of the government. Why is it not possible to secure these funds in the state budget? It's going to be budget rebalance, plan them, you can't tell us that's not possible. So I'm begging you, Mr. Vice President, they're here. Government representatives have to give us answers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198189	Thank you, so in. So just for a second, so you can't because this isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Maras. [[/Intruder: Can I answer?]] So they give answers within their means, so no injured Rules of Procedure Please don't do this anymore. [[Intruder: Within its resources.]] Third replica of Anka's colleague, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198190	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you are here on behalf of your ministry and on behalf of the Government and we expect answers from you. In my replica, I ask you to read the following fact. So we at the GLAS Club immediately applied for an emergency procedure of the law where those in self-insulation linked to the threat we have from the virus would have a fee different from that prescribed at this point. What exactly is this about? It's about two weeks of self-insulation, and we only gave that up when it started, the fee was 2,100 kuna and it remained. But there's something else, when we looked at that law, that compensation for people who decided to donate an organ to someone, so they give someone their kidney, when they're on sick leave to receive a fee of 4,400 kuna in a month. So I'm interested in your position regarding these self-insulation and organ donation charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198191	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198192	It is difficult to compare the diseases resulting from organ transplants and the issue of organ transplanters with Covida-19 infection. These are two things that in medicine simply cannot be compared because they have neither the same etiology nor the same medical I would say weight. As for financial compensation to people who are in isolation or self-insulation, it is as much as the Government has decided at the moment that they can give, and whether there will be financial resources in the coming period depending on the development of the overall situation with this pandemic that is something we will see in the future, and probably according to that, we will then be different and financially oriented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198193	Thank you. Now we have three replicas of Secretary of State Salapic. The first is a colleague of the coat of arms, you can talk slowly, and you'll make one small intervention. Thank you. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198194	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, I assume you know what I'm going to ask you, and this concerns the situation in the judiciary and the fact that despite the announcements made by the Minister of Justice Mr. Bosnjakovic in the interim building of a meeting in the basement of a historic ININE building 10 days ago, we still don't have a law that would regulate the course of court deadlines in times of crisis. And you and I both know how many problems there are in the Croatian judiciary otherwise, we know that these problems are further highlighted now in the Kovid era, we know that there are courts that are blocked because individuals in these courts have been infected, we know that the earthquake makes it impossible to use a whole series of courts buildings in Zagreb. My question is, when are you going to refer to the procedure a law that will regulate the time-limits in court proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198195	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198196	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, we are in preparation for the deadline law, and we have already repeated it several times. It's not about one law. It's about a set of laws and a very sensitive matter. What I can say responsibly, the justice system in the circumstances in which we are caused by the earthquake, Covidom-19, works so that the rule of law is not compromised at any time. As for the specifics, we are in a few days will be after Easter and with you here in Parliament discussing this. There is nothing that would endanger any citizens of the Republic of Croatia to protect their rights, and also as far as investigative procedures are concerned, the urgency of court proceedings, all courts in the Republic of Croatia are doing their job in such a way that these laws are implemented no matter where the court is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198197	Thank you. The next replica of Anka's colleague Mrak Taritas, followed by counterpart Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198198	Before starting with the replicas, distinguished secretary of state, therefore we are in this area not because of the crown but because of the earthquake that was in Zagreb. The earthquake that was in Zagreb, what we have a chance to see has done a lot of damage in courts that are basically in the lower city where there was damage. I'm curious, of course, when you're here, then you're going to give us answers to what we have a chance to ask you, which is whether it started with the damage recovery, as you've thought, whether or not with the Ministry in charge of the property you're seeing some other locations where the work of the judiciary might take place, because some resolutions will take a very long time, and we think that life can't stop and we hope that this threat will end quickly, so that life will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198199	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198200	Thank you very much. You were the Minister of Construction, and then you know that some demands are complicated. As far as the County Court building in Zagreb is concerned, the reconstruction took place immediately after the earthquake and will eventually become operational. As for replacement properties, we have found several locations that will soon be published by one of them is a building on Harambasic Street that has about 4000 square meters, there will be moved by certain judicial institutions, the Commercial Court, part of the Administrative, etc. What we've been doing certainly from the day of the earthquake to today, we've taken steps to make the entire justice system work soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198201	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198202	Thank you. Dear Secretary Salapic, please answer my very simple question, you have now announced publicly that the government will prepare a stalemate of all tasks. But from what I've come from the media, I've concluded that it's a law relating to monetary performances, but I'm asking you specifically now, does this mean that it's going to be a stalemate of all tasks, means those who go through the FINE and those who the employer takes out from pay and pay the creditor where the pension is, too, part of the pension goes to the believer, will all of this be covered by the stalemate, and will there be a delay in the flow of tight interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198203	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198204	Your Honor, I've said and I repeat three times, we've been working on everything, we've made a recommendation to the public notaries to do a stop since the day the earthquake happened and these results caused by Covidom-19. No executioner has received an executive solution, no action, no execution, no actions. Within a week, we will unblock 240,000 citizens in time of 3 months when they will be able to fully manage their incomes in full amounts. As for the others, if I did not say in advance something that needs to be discussed on professional bodies, I would not want to be hasty to make sure that at this point we stop and help as many Croatian citizens as possible at the risk of this health threat in a way that we will stop as much as possible with the executive procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198205	Thank you. Next we have two replicas to the secretary of state, Mrs. Buric. We have, first is colleagues Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic. A little intervention, so we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198206	Dear Secretary of State, you have proudly pointed out in your presentation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the first step of 3,200 kuna in the second of 4,000 kunas net and around 5,200 gross for more than 80,000 employers and about 500,000 Croatian workers. I wonder if you can give us information on how much of these 500,000 workers before the crisis and before the decision on the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had a salary greater or significantly greater than that 3,200 kuna or 4,000 kuna or whether you can tell us how many of them fell to the minimum because of this government decision and whether these employers will still feel this crisis or not, or whether it will fall on the back of those 500,000 workers. And on the other hand, I have to comment that in your comparison of support from the SDP government I have an impression, I hope I'm wrong, as if you're lucky that this crisis hit Croatia so that you can say that HDZ has given 500,000 support, which is much less than he was giving the SDP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's exactly what I noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198207	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198208	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Giujic, I'm sorry that your feeling is cheating on you, it's very cheating on you. So I'll repeat our focus is health protection and on the other hand protection of all jobs. That is why we have provided an additional 8.5 billion kuna for the support measure to preserve jobs. What I must also tell you is that today we have 84,000 demands for about 500,000 workers, and so far we have paid about 600 million kuna. We're working at five speeds and moving on intensively. I just want to say that in the HZZ which is the implementing body for this measure, officials work in two shifts, so it is really intensive and what is our main intensity and the main goal is to preserve jobs. Also facilitating employers, facilitating workers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198209	Thank you. Next replica of colleague Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198210	Mrs Buric argued in her presentation that the measures of the government of the Republic of Croatia are equally supported by employers, workers and trade unions. It's only partially true. So you've respected almost all the proposals that came from the HUP, but not a single proposal that came from the union. Moreover, an amendment to the Labour Act has been prepared in your ministry to derogate workers' rights. That's fortunately prevented at the GSV session at least for the time being. Can you tell me if you are planning to bring any changes to the Labour Law in due time or if you are planning something else that we have already heard to suit workers, rather than going towards breaking this crisis just over their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198211	Thank you. Here's an answer from the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198212	Thank you very much. So that component, which is unfortunately unpredictable, is the duration of this entire crisis related to the crown, i.e. Covid-19. Our short-term measures and the medium-term measures are presented, before you. What I am extremely pleased about is that a very high consensus has been reached, I will repeat both employers and workers and unions and the overall social community and I believe that in any case it is something that is very important at this time and because of the feelings of our citizens and the sense of security and protection in very, very difficult and challenging times. Anyway, what I also have to tell you is that we've opened absolutely all the questions, we've assumed all the questions and we're considering [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198213	Thank you. And the last set of replicas on Secretary of State Zrinasic. There you go. You don't have a replica anymore. First up, she's a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198214	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have spent a lot of time with us in this crisis, and in your opening statement, you have explained what you have done, what you have done, what you intend to do. We don't normally think in GLAS that the state should always and every time everything is very sharp and everything needs to be regulated and regulated, but when it comes to banks, when it comes to the moratorium on loans, when it comes to the lying houses that colleagues were talking about in the opening presentation, we don't think that it can just work on a deal between the resolution minister and the banks, so that banks decide, we think it should also be defined by law. Don't let it happen to us that behind this crown epidemic and the downfall of the economy, the only one who will benefit from it and come out richer will be the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198215	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198216	Here, thank you very much. I agree with your suggestion in terms of the treatment of all entities in this crisis and the financial sector mentioned. Of course, this one division of all the participants in this situation is very important in terms of balance and tomorrow the continuation of life, as well as our citizens, and economic operators, and ultimately the financial institutions that in their part this is leaning on or these former ones are leaning on them. We have had some further proceedings that financial institutions have launched against the Republic of Croatia for, due to the adoption of certain legal norms that we still have court proceedings outside the Republic of Croatia, and in that sense, the government in the first steps has been better agreed than imperative if it is possible. Of course, this tall home and all together We'll bring certain regulations that are best. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198217	Thank you. Comrade coat of arms, here's another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, of course, and my question will be focused on the moratorium on loans, you understand why. I got word today by a gentleman with his situation, a loan he took last year, a war of 3,000 kunas a month, a clear principal in this year has paid nothing back. In order to get a six-month stay, so to get a refund of $18,000, the bank will account for an interest of more than 12,000. Do you think that's okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198219	Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198220	Thank you very much. Now you've brought up one case that is probably and life-like, I really can't get into the calculations right now, but the situations that have happened so far, or today, in terms of the crisis triggered by the corona virus, they're not at all comparable, so we're going to agree, and what this crisis is about to take action is to take those measures that were unimaginable until yesterday. So in this sense, what we are discussing today and what will be discussed in the coming days and making appropriate decisions will certainly require some measures that may not have been imagined in the past, and so this question that you are now asking, indeed weighs now what is right, you are a lawyer in the given conduct in terms of the Law on Mandatory Relations and other measures that, in certain exceptional circumstances, are necessary to take, this is something that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198221	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198222	Thank you, Vice President. So, first of all, I would like to say that all state secretaries here represent the government and I can't say that they don't represent the government, if they don't represent the government, they shouldn't have come here, she should have come as Prime Minister and Minister. Why is the suspension of the moratorium on loans of 3 months not sufficient? Because people took credit for example. in tourist activity extended either quality or expanded their accommodation facilities. This season is gone, it is clear to all of us, because the crown must stop not only in Croatia it must stop throughout Europe or around the world for tourists to go at all. Those people already know. What does it mean to them if after three months they have to pay off the loan, and they don't make money because this year they won't make any money. So, come on, let's approach the reasonable problem, reasonablely. So this proposal of ours to be for a year until they start working, until they start working is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198223	Thank you. Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198224	Thank you very much for asking. The measures launched by the Government during March and relating to the Coronal Virus, of course, are seen in terms of other Member States that are economically stronger and more powerful in terms of the construction of measures concerning the state budget. In this part and other measures that are not directly related to the state budget, of course the government has watched other Member States do so since we are EU members. Indeed, it is one graduation and degree of measures, so that the synchronicity and solidarity of all participants is now extremely important and not only as a flossula, and not only as a flossula, but also as an necessity to overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198225	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the proposal, actually, a set of laws. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, so she is a colleague of Grozdana Peric's. Here you go, after the intervention, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198226	Respect for the esteemed vice president, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, first and foremost to the Government, and we must always respect all the good proposals that are possible to always be accepted and incorporated into even better legal proposals. What we cannot accept at this time, which is this set of your laws, the SDP proposal, primarily because, as you know, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, and unfortunately, the earthquake that took place on the 22nd of this month and last month, so the two situations that were in any scenario were actually amazing. When the government agreed on those first March measures, it was only thinking about what would happen and what would be the consequences of the pandemic, and you know very well that when any measure is taken that all facts must then be considered, all the effects that would be and how such a situation would reflect both on the economy and on private lives, and in the first place on the health of the population or the whole nation. Therefore, when such measures are taken, they must be very well thought out. You have to take full parameters as if you're doing a new budget because all of the details you have to take care of. So in that first set, the measure covered what we had previously adopted, and we cannot say that it was very bad at that moment. The second set of measures came after this not even 15 days and today we adopted it and you must admit that there are many factors involved that have helped and calmed the whole situation and the uncertainty that has been caused by these two disasters. In the first part of the fee itself was 3,250 plus contributions, now it is 4,000 plus contributions, and in the meantime you see that there have been changes in that everything, every employer who fired a part of the worker precisely because of this uncertainty that he will be able to continue to work, has been given the opportunity to bring these employees back, and at this point there are 13,600 employees who then exercise the right, so they do not interrupt the employment relationship and return to the system of work and have the right to compensation of 4,000 kuna increased for the contributions that are once again on the burden of the state budget and what is important to say that the weight of these measures is over 8.5 billion kuna. At this point, we know that over 60,000 taxpayers, or entrepreneurs, have requested this measure and that more than 600 million kunas have already been paid. Very soon, so in the month, and only a practical application was made. What you should also say is that in, that citizenship and what you have in certain legal requirements is actually a request for a moratorium and so on. credit obligations are all understood, but at this point what we have brought is that through the amendments to the General Tax Law we have regulated exactly the possibility of these obligations being suspended temporarily, to stop the implementation and for all other public duties, and it is certainly always a question of what, after 3 months or after 6 months. And it's perfectly justified that we all think about it because each one of us has or has or has credit obligations and certainly doesn't care when that obligation arrives. However, let the government do and do these, these two packages that will be adopted within a very short period of time, and a new measure that will allow citizens to be so much more peaceful and that it can function in this way. It's already mentioned today what happens and when it's going to happen. In fact, it's very important how long it's going to take this particular measure that's caused by Covido-19. And what remains secretly to us in the following certainly 7, 8 if not for many years, which is these measures that will need to be done to help citizens rebuild apartments, houses, historical sights, churches, etc. and we will certainly have much help from EU funds. What we are also talking about when we talk about a set of these measures is about paying VAT, I have already mentioned that in the VAT projection for this year there were over 50 we expect revenue 55 and some billion kuna and now after this everything that happens pandemic, there is no tourism, there is no consumption, and besides these elemental disasters, then we can assume how much impact all this will have on the revenue side of the budget that cannot expect so much charge and which will have to think very much about a lot of other sources of funding. We must not forget that it is already in previous measures that it is possible for companies to private up to 7.5 million traffic or over 7.5 with a 20 per cent or more drop in traffic to 50%, that the possibility of partly prolonging, reprogramming, to write off part of the claim and debt, therefore a large part of these measures has already been consumed and I think that the Government has responded in a very good and rapid way about all of this. What you just insisted on, and this secretary of state expected to answer your question, so it really can't happen if something isn't caused by disease, infection, etc. that pay compensation cannot then be compensated from a source of compulsory health insurance, then there are other measures because you know it is illegal. So you can't prejudge something, so you can't be sick, but there was a measure for it, and there's a way that you can pay off on a different basis, and another way that can be helped, and eventually it's accepted and we finally adopted it. So when we look at the total of these measures that are now over 45 billion kuna plus 20 billion that have reached commitments from previous periods, then you see that the set of these measures is over 9.6% of our GDP, which is certainly more than many other European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198227	Thank you, thank you. We're continuing on behalf of the clubs. Next registered counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. A colleague of Zekanovic does not have and in accordance with Article 233 he loses the right to talk about this item of the agenda for, throughout the entire debate. We continue with the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, colleagues of Grmoje and colleagues of Bulj shared the debate. First one's a colleague of the Grmoi. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198228	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we warned with that first package of government measures that these measures would not be enough, we said that we needed to go to the write-off, not to the delays, and the government listened to us. At that time, no amendment to the opposition was accepted. Not because these amendments were bad because it proved later that the government was all what we were saying at the Most but also other colleagues actually accepted, but they weren't accepted just because they came from the ranks of the opposition. Today we have the same situation, the second, second round of the Government package, all the amendments we have given have been rejected and it can be concluded that in this crisis situation the opposition shows unity and constructiveness, and by ruling again shows one party boredom. This is what grieves all over this story, and in particular the sadness that those first to be thought of, to whom the first should be intended package they will come third in a row, in the third round after Easter. Our seniors, our pensioners, our unemployed, our blocked and completed. MOST first thinks of you or think of you first, not as the last, as those on which the measures will be taken after the Easter. We asked the Croatian Parliament to continue the session, to support itself or our proposal because we too have a proposal on a moratorium on loans and performances or a proposal from colleagues from the SDP, but we do not even ask for that. Give you your ruling proposal, give your government colleagues your proposal we will gladly raise your hand to him. Our citizens who are the most endangered in our society deserve a peaceful and peaceful Easter, deserve a resurrection without a cold, a resurrection without fear, a Easter in joy with their families. So much for me, and hopefully here you'll change your mind, there's still time, the president of the assembly can call and tomorrow's session of the assembly, the government can give its measures and we'll be happy to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198229	Please stop the time for a moment, thank you. A little intervention. Thank you, ma'am or miss. Here you go, fellow Bull, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198230	My colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representatives of the government, why am I partly disappointed? Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said so too, but it is noticeable in the general public that the opposition is making constructive proposals, and that the Government simply rejects them, and anything proposed constructively by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the opposition accepts it. These measures that the MOST has also given, and we are now discussing the SDP measures especially about the most endangered, about the postponement of the credit, about the delay of the performance, that's what the first tribal is about, the first measure. These people are the most endangered right now. No one would forgive these people, but it would be delayed if they weren't responsible for this crisis. And what he would point to here, today was a vote on the results of Croatian politics, poor conduct of Croatian agriculture, bad leadership, so I gave the law on the ban on the sale of agricultural land. The government rejected it, both foreign and legal, foreign and legal individuals. It is the government of the Republic of Croatia, the honourable representatives of the government, the citizens, if you are looking, who refused to sell agricultural land, refused my proposal to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. And the agricultural land, is, right now, agriculture has said that the wrong policies we had mainly towards agriculture so that it disappoints me that the opposition is constructive at this point, accepts all the proposals that you government representatives make, and you reject all of ours from the opposition, but these are proposals for the benefit of the citizens. Well, a lot of the suggestions I've made for SDP hasn't voted for them, but this is a good proposal, I'll support it. You would hardly accept any amendment, any proposal from the opposition. Why? Because you're using both the crisis and this health and economic crisis exclusively for the PR, and that's not good, everyone here is equal, we're all at risk. Thus, when we are discussing these laws and speaking now with us at Easter today, he represented the council in this crisis, of course, that they should be much, much more constructive from the position of power. If we're looking for a delay, because now it's SDP law, and MOST suggested it, the MOST Club and this and other colleagues in the opposition don't see any reason why you wouldn't accept it and why the government didn't put that measure into emergency procedure and we would vote again today or come tomorrow. And not now for Easter you leave that space, the greatest Christian holiday I congratulate from this place I wish all happy and blessed Easter, the greatest Christian holiday to all our citizens. For days, it was broken whether markets should be opened, so of course the triba with all the respect measures because it is more likely to be infected by the coronary virus in a closed area trade chain, but foreign products are sold there, and domestic products were mostly sold in the markets. Here I hear the announcement now and it is my pleasure that after a long, long application will open up markets that should not have been closed at all, but with all the criteria of respect that the Tribals would respect as in trade chains, but better to buy Italian pomidores, it is better to buy strawberries than this Spain than Vrgoračka, it is better to buy meaning those products. Here, I would say in the end that I am disappointed that we are not continuing to work while all groups of unemployed, retired, particularly completed and blocked and, of course, all these measures he has proposed in this case suggest opposition to what we are leaving. The government could have made this simple, it could have made a proposal for its additions and we could have settled it in this big week before it meant Big Thursday and Big Friday. In this way we would actually come to a solution and a peaceful Easter. In the end, you would wish all the citizens a happy and blessed Easter, hopefully if there are measures here, you see 151 of us here that on this greatest Christian holiday and Croatian believers will have the possibility under all measures either within the sacral churches, either outside churches, here you in the government or in front of churches or in the courtyards will be allowed at least to share, not all, part of the people, the believers can unfortunately have the opportunity to participate in this greatest Christian meanings on Easter, the greatest Christian holiday and the sacrament. And once again, I wish you all a happy and blessed Easter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198231	Thank you. We are continuing to debate on behalf of the club of MPs, next is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, in front of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Taritash. So five minutes dark, five minutes Taritate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198232	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the Crown Virus or Covida-19, no matter what we call it, has caused major changes in our lives. One of these changes will also be seen on the greatest Christian holiday of Easter that we will certainly not be working in a circle of some broader family because everyone is staying home and I really respect that if you are guarding yourself, guarding someone else and keeping everyone around you and we are taking care of it. We sit here at a distance, we don't shake hands, we take care of each other, and when we talk to someone, we use space. And that's all the coronary virus has changed, but something hasn't changed. It did not change that when it comes to opposition proposals that they will get their place in the Croatian Parliament in the worst time, so now not even the evening term, but after the vote, this package of laws won and did not change that when the opposition gives amendments, that these amendments, no matter how reasonable they may be, how helpful they might even be, that they refuse to explain themselves. I'm just going to refer to me as the favorite amendment that was rejected today by our club, we've given an amendment that is related to office leaders and tourism that, because of the Corona virus or Covida-19, they no longer need to know foreign language. So when the coronary is a virus or a Covida-10, those who run offices, they don't have to know foreign language with tourism. And now we say the amendment of my people so don't do crazy things, it has nothing to do with it, and it's being rejected, and it's quite serious, the secretary of state has explained why it's happening, if you're asking me why, I don't know, but it's been pretty serious. But let's get back to this subject. The first set of measures that was in March, I must admit that I'm always somehow trying to understand, so whether or not I agree with that first set of measures that we can call March I understood. We didn't know what the scales were, no matter what the crown was rolling behind the hills when it came to Europe, someone got a little better, someone got a little worse. It was not a willingness to bring some options, or some variants, because it did not know how long this would take. So I had this first set of measures that way. The second set of measures I called April 1 0, because with the certainty that a second set of measures will come in April which we will call April 2 0, all those who spoke can't go in just a delay you have to write off, you have to define something. We spoke as opposition MPs, they spoke to the businessmen, they all said, and in that second set of measures, some things were heard. And you saw that at the vote that was today and that was 130 of us, I don't remember when we were, the last time we were 130 when there was a set of measures or a little less of those Marchs, it just means that after all, the MPs, no matter how we were perceived, are responsible. We are responsible for what we are saying, we are responsible for certain crisis situations and this responsibility and opposition parliamentary deputies are really ready to take over on their backs and no matter what you're discussing and with some things you disagree with and some things you warn us that now the situation is next, which is that we need to support and support a set of measures, but for tango we need two. Tango doesn't go to one, so no matter how you turn around, but the other one's just like that, he's gone to sleep somewhere, and he's waiting somewhere. That's what I'm saying between, so the opposition suggests something, and on the other hand it's a government that's pretty hard to say that these things can't be accepted, but then at some headquarters conferences that I can really say that it seems to me that it's doing a good job, it's using time to deal with some political inexperiences, which is not good. So, at these moments, the opposition has made clear everything from the government that comes, and we conclude that it is good that it will help the citizen, we will support the citizens, but we also think that the time when the opposition proposes something, so sit down, talk, let's talk. And it's not even a problem that then the government in some package April 2 0, May 1 0 or that took what was there and said here we took and said one sentence is the subject of a common agreement. As long as the crown lasts, it should listen to experts and they somehow predict how it will grow, fall, linearly and everything else. What will be the consequences of the Corone or Covida-19 on the economy that no one, regardless of the experiences they have, can predict. It seems to us that this crisis is to be used for a few things. The first thing to take advantage of is a little look at our laws being written. They're being written unreasonablely, written in a way that we don't want them to be understood by anyone, complicated, complicated in procedures, we tend to complicate where we shouldn't. Maybe one of the situations, or the outcome of this crisis, that we all think about it together a little bit. I will only take one example, of course I live in the City of Zagreb, until the City of Zagreb would care, an example of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the behaviour of the City of Gas. People closed the gas in houses that weren't even damaged by the earthquake because they were well built. The gas station said okay, to let you gas out, you have to come to us, you have to fill in 3 or 4 requirements in the context of the crown only you come to us maybe someone has, so we'll split it up and pay 3,000 kuna and then when you do all that, then we'll make a list of priorities and we'll go and release that gas. My people, if it weren't true, it would be for one of those comedies or soap operas, but that's true. So, the first time I heard it from a guy in the city gas station, I was sitting at home, I thought I heard something wrong, I heard something. So, from this crisis, maybe we could come out smarter because look at the e-citizen working neatly, everything works through emails, let's be something smarter and try to see the regulations and see what we regulate and how we regulate it. Another thing we should be able to get out of this crisis, we should be clearly wondering what kind of economy we want for Croatia, whether we want to hang on to tourism, whether we want to only hang on to imports and certain services, or if we think something else is going on here. Today we voted for the amendments to the Agriculture Act, which in the sense of no one at all is disputed, but in the debate we're the Minister of Resorna was with us, we said something we might need to take well-meaningly, we think the time has come when agriculture is for a serious reset. Something about that farm and the way we work is wrong. This is the moment when we can reset ourselves, we can take the green plan that the EU has made regarding climate change, more climate change after 2 months we no longer mention ourselves, and two months ago our mouths were full of climate change, see what the green threshold for agriculture is, and maybe it's a strategy for the development of Croatia's agriculture with some adjustments. From this set of laws, it is especially important that the law which speaks of a delay is related to loans. No, and that's what I said to the secretary of state, and I repeat, and now for the rest of this pay phone, don't let this crisis that's hit us all, we still don't know what the scales are, the ones that come out unscathed or richer, be banks, like it was in every crisis. Let's try to really take care of our citizens and the problems they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198233	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The last reported debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives was a debate reported by counterpart Tomislav Žagar, in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198234	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear State Secretarys and State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. The HSU Club, independent representatives, New Politics and SNAGA will support this set of laws proposed by the SDP Club because one member of our club participated actively in the preparation of these laws. Why is that? Well, this set of laws, first of all, all those measures that the government, which we voted today, are vertical and horizontally expanding. Vertically in the amount of compensation and assistance to be provided, and horizontally to most of our citizens who are not covered by these measures that we adopted here at HS today. Namely, the secretary of state here when she initially explained why the government rejects these bill proposals, I apologize, that's a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club said two important dates, one date was March 19th when the pandemic was declared and the second date was March 22nd when the earthquake was in Zagreb. Why do I mention these two laws? We can see that this process is extremely turbulent and dynamic and that the government, at least so far, has not shown the right way of planning, planning future activities, but is exclusively used for what is otherwise used when steering or managing, requires some kind of feedback, so on 23rd of the earthquake in Zagreb, the 23rd of March center has made a decision to ban leaving the place of residence. Watch out, places of residence, and then this caused a huge amount of passes that were issued because we have 6756 seats in Croatia. That picture shows how things work out only when they come up, and little is planned in advance. Of course, respecting the fact that it's hard to do things and plan ahead. The second thing that matters, as far as these measures are concerned, was not a great situation before the outbreak in the Republic of Croatia. So, even before the outbreak occurred, 140 thousand people were at the Employment Service, but we must not forget the large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had left the Republic of Croatia before that and hired in other countries. We also see that these citizens are returning to the Republic of Croatia, they have no place to go but to the Employment Service, and since the adoption, since the announcement, since the crisis occurred, we see that a large number of citizens have already ended up at the Employment Office. It is true that these government measures can be re-employed and re-received, this amount provided for in the measures. It is seen here that this is a serious, serious crisis and that what the secretary of state has highlighted, and what is the most important parameter in the whole crisis, which is the time of this crisis, which no one can predict how long it will last. So we have an extremely dynamic and busy period in which entrepreneurs will have to respond to the challenges ahead. That's why I think this set of measures is good, but the government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact, the Ministry of Finance, the minister, will have to respond as soon as possible to what kind of rebalancing is expected of the budget in the future. To that question, I think it's going to be the biggest, the biggest challenge on this issue is going to be. And what is crucial is why these measures should be supported. The government will certainly think of them if it does not support them, because although the announcement of this third set of measures will be directed towards citizens, so that it will not be late, because as I said, citizens who are already at the Employment Service, everyone who, whether earlier, has now gone to the Bureau, all who have had problems serving their obligations, especially loans, there are, of course, students, pensioners who find it difficult today. It's hard for them for a number of reasons, and mostly for the fact that their pensions are small, and then this crisis hit them. For all these citizens, therefore, measures should be taken to facilitate and enable them to live and overcome this difficult situation. When GDP is growing, the biggest benefit is those who are richer, but even when GDP falls, it breaks over the back of the poorest, and therefore these measures are very important. In the last debate there when we had in the INA building I mentioned it, I will mention again, that, not by chance, and the financial sector will not hesitate to come out of this process uncircumcised, and in fact they will try to come out uncircumcised in all ways, and that is what the credit rating agency which has reduced Croatia by one degree. Their assessment that GDP would fall by 5%, this could mean according to that rough, budget that the unemployment rate would be 2.5% at least and that is 50,000 people without jobs and these are the things that we will have to answer because it is about citizens who will be out of work, employers of course who will have to close their trades or their businesses and because of these things we need to think about measures as soon as possible and bring them forward. That's why I think this set of measures is good, we'll support them at the club, and I'm telling the government to think hard if he doesn't want to accept the proposals coming from the opposition, and we see that this is the case, so let the public, as soon as possible, have a set of measures that will allow citizens to overcome this crisis and live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198235	Thank you, too. We ended the discussion on behalf of the clubs. We're continuing an individual debate. I'd like to ask Miss for a little intervention, and then a colleague of mine, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the adoption of this second package, I believe that most of these legal proposals on behalf of the SDP Club will be implemented through the regulation and the former provisions of certain laws. Likewise, certain legislative proposals are not intended to say so to the address to which they might be said, but what I think is also why I came forward for an individual debate and wanted to share with you, and also to point out one problem that first and foremost my colleague Lalovac and I have been talking about in this assembly for a long time, which is a liquidity problem. And this directly binds to this law on credit forgiveness because when we talk about liquidity, then citizens are also liquid and liquid. So, did this legal proposal cover all the obligations that Croatian citizens have. Not only do Croatian citizens have only loans, they also have a commitment to leasing societies and a commitment to card houses, a commitment to insurance companies, a commitment to teleopers and a number of other obligations. Therefore, this law, and I think that the Government is thinking about it, must be complete and must cover all aspects of the obligations that our citizens have. Also, colleagues and colleagues should not forget that over the past few years Croatian entrepreneurs from craftsmen have had an extremely high investment cycle, investing money in economic activities. And many of them have found themselves in this package of measures that the government has proposed, which is to pay salaries and not have to pay pension and health for the simple reason, whether because of the provisions of the headquarters, whether because of this or that reason they simply stopped doing business. And we're talking about a moratorium on loans, so we just have to put all of them in those packages. And that's why the law deserves far wider scope, deserves far more attention for reasons, if we don't approach it that way she thinks we're going to make a lot of trouble. The other thing, from a month ago and a few days ago when there was a law on insurance in the assembly I repeat about the responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. To be honest, I expected that both business banks and Leasing companies and insurance companies would come out with some package of their own when this crisis started with one single goal to protect those who bring them profits. Because they, if those who took up credit with them who made insurance policies or who took something to Leasing if they can't pay them first, put them in trouble. So they should be in the interest of finding that first package. And I think the government is talking in that direction. We have heard that the CNB has already brought about certain changes that they can react to, and if in such a way we could approach this problem which I believe is crucial to the state's funding problem in the coming months, then the law would be comprehensive. And it's a good idea for a colleague from the SDP Club to propose it as a law, but this bill of yours solves only one small segment, just one small segment. Because what difference does it make whether you have to pay the loan or whether you need a war lying to society or whether you need to pay the war to the insurance company, no. It's your obligation that if, and what I think is still important at this point, if you work normally, you do business, you get paid, then this measure doesn't have to apply to you. This measure should apply to those who do not function normally, who do not receive salaries and ultimately we as a social state must take care of our citizens. And I'm saying I think the government will come out with a package that will certainly take care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, without intending to tell you, but colleagues and colleagues you've only dealt with this law one little segment, and that's why I wanted to share this debate with you because I think Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198237	We have one replica, please you can stay. He's a friend of Sagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198238	Dear fellow Shuker, I agree with you, it's true it would be very good for the banks to decide to negotiate with their clients to see which way it goes. However, this so you know from experience doesn't work, it just doesn't work, it's about positions of power, banks are extremely powerful compared to their clients, especially citizens. And actually this, as far as I understand it, is going towards the weakest, the most vulnerable, because with them banks are hardly going to negotiate. It is therefore necessary to define legal frameworks to create moratories on commitments, but not in such a way as to further accumulate interest later, but to simply buy that time for these people, so that while they overcome the crisis, they can continue to serve their obligations. Of course you're right when you talk about other obligations, like, according to the Leasing societies and everyone else, but I think it's from the position that it's hard to expect that banks will work that way. They still need to be legally forced to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198239	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198240	Comrade Sagar, that you listened carefully to what they said, I said that legally, if we need to, we need to solve everything. And the normal thing is that we have to think about those who are the most vulnerable, that we have to react here, but I repeat, everyone in their segment is important. And I guess the banks burned after that big crisis 10 years ago and how great they are. The placements had to be converted into non-refundable claims and that they would think and think about how to save those who ultimately bring them profits and repay loans and pay interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198241	Thank you. The next debate is a debate from fellow Pernar. And a little intervention from my colleague Pernar. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198242	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The solutions this government has for the current crisis are not adequate and will not solve it, and I will explain why. The main problem is with loans, by putting on a moratorium, the cause of the problem is not solved. The problem is that these loans will ultimately need to be paid back and that many people living on tourism during the summer months are expensive money to pay off the loan for the rest of the year. However, in this case, what will happen? Moratorium will last, for example. For the next few months, they'll run out of money from the season, it's just a season, for example. failed, which is very likely to happen and suddenly end this extraordinary state of Beroshevo. Yeah, this isn't gonna last forever. And what happens when it goes away? And then the banks will say now, look, there's no state of emergency, the loans have to go back, and the revenues from this summer are gone. Where are these people gonna get your loans back from? They've got nowhere to go. Another problem, all the time this moratorium, interest is accounted for. So are you aware of what that means? Where are people gonna get those interest back from? The legislator doesn't care. Here's an identical example of the work. The government says we're introducing a moratorium to execution. And what does that mean in practice? Well, in practice, it means that the same scheme goes on the same way. It's not going to stop now, it's just going to bring down that waterfall, as soon as these measures are cut off, and the reason for this whole executive hell is that the performances are actually given to public notebooks, which they can account for whatever fees and what ultimately, you have enormous costs of the execution, so people don't necessarily kill the debt for water of 200 kuna, but they get killed by the costs of the execution. They're getting killed by the fee that FINA's taking. FINA is taking an enormous fee. Did the government solve that question? No, I don't. The government neither solves the issue of interest, or there are no interest moratories, nor does it think about what will be left of income with people this summer, and when the moratorium passes, it will have to. Yes, when the moratorium passes and this state of emergency passes, it will have to continue to repay the loan, it has nowhere to go. The government doesn't care about that. This solution that the government has, you know what these solutions are? These are short-term solutions. Maybe the government has a solution to the election of parliamentarys at 9:00. I mean, what's it gonna be in 10, 11, 12, 1, 2, 3. Mesa, 5 months. Next year? And the government doesn't think about it. This is one crazy way, this policy has no vision whatsoever. Also, there's one more thing I want to say. If the population is not divided into young and old, both healthy and sick, and it will go with a general quarantine story that is being imposed on us at all times, it will take a very long time for a critical number of people in the population to get infected and get over the crown. Yeah, that's the problem. It's going to take a very long time, instead of being, because young people, they have no mortality at all, 0.1%. Instead of allowing young people to get over, get immunity, a critical part of the population to have resistance to this virus and end with quarantine measures, quarantine measures will be delayed indefinitely. And you know what kind of solution they're going to offer? Then he'll offer as a solution, what? The vaccine. And then they'll tell my people, we have to protect the weaker. But you all need to be vaccinated. And what about those who refuse to vaccinate? He'll be in trouble again. I don't see where this policy leads, I can't understand people who support the general instead of selective quarantine. I don't know how many more months they're planning on keeping the whole people in this agony because people are mentally firing and they can't take this condition anymore. But nobody cares about that, and half the country's on the minimal, which is what those who are unemployed and who were planning to do, seasons, have nothing to live on, so nobody cares. The state doesn't regulate it at all, I asked Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic, what about those who don't have a fee from the Stock Exchange? What do they live on now that they can't find a job? And Plenkovic says, Alardovic will find a solution. I don't see him yet. When will this solution come? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198243	Thank you, colleague Pernar. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Sasa Djujic, please a little intervention, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues from the SDP. So here's how much the government is interested in our measures and our proposals, this shows that there aren't any MPs in the hall right now except for the SDPs. So, they're full of the mouth of the community and all that... Now you're in, now you're in [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you're in. ... [[Intruder: Mr. Pernar.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198245	Mr. Pernar, Mr. Pernar Mr. Djujic, Mr. Pernar. [[You're in from the outside now.]] Mr. Pernar Mr. Pernar. ... [[Intruder: Yes.]] Mr. Pernar, a reminder [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm not gonna throw him out, but I'm giving him a warning, this behavior is not appropriate. [[Don't kick him out because then he'll say you threw him out on purpose so I can say there's no one but us.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198246	Here, I welcome fellow Pernar who just returned and fellow Shucker who has now entered, thank you very much. So what I'm saying is, this is already the 3rd package of measures SDP is proposing. 3. package, so after the first two of which none of them were adopted, none of them were accepted. So we propose certain solutions and certain measures that the Government then partially accepts after a while. The same thing is with this package. So here and just now, my colleague Schucker said in his debate that we're covering a small part, a small segment of the problem when we're talking about a moratorium on loans, that we haven't fully worked it out and worked it out, let's just say that the government is going to cover that part in its future action, and it's going to work it out together. But he didn't tell his colleague Shuker that our proposals, for example, were not working. He didn't say, because he knows that he's part part of it, part of it's good. I listened well, I heard it all right. Well, what's the problem, you know what my colleague Shucker is? We are proposing these packages because the ruling HDZ has not included the opposition since the first day of the conversation. You didn't turn it on. You can nod all you want. You're not. You are sitting alone with yourself and this second package of government measures that was now, which was delayed in part you presented to your coalition partners, and you did not find it appropriate to invite opposition representatives to this conversation, you did not. Because you don't need us, because you don't care what we have to say, and that shows this hall here today. Empty, just you fellow Shucker, here you are, and colleague Pernar. And my colleague Pernar. ... So when I don't have anyone, how am I supposed to, what am I gonna mention about Sanader when he's not here? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What am I going to say? Who? I mean, what am I going to say, here, a colleague I don't know, who? Who? You tell me, fellow Shuker, when you're alone. There's no one here. Nobody cares. The SDP is a colleague here, is, is, we've had enough. So, look, we suggest, you don't listen, you don't care. Another thing again, so it's not the devil that none of our proposals are right. We are in this package of measures, I am now not going to enter into each individual, but colleagues Bernardic and Lalovac said in the introduction, this is the third package that includes citizens, citizens who are also the most socially endangered of whom the government has not considered at the moment. I'm not saying he won't think in his third package. But I don't understand why the opposition isn't involved. You say, "Here's a good suggestion, and you didn't even bother to fix it." So today we wouldn't be discussing this or counting here if Prime Minister Plenkovic's first day had called all the presidents of the opposition parliamentary parties and said, let's hear, let's all heads together, who has any suggestions. So maybe one part of our measures would be included already in the government's package and instead, and all the time you're talking here, make suggestions, thank you, but that's not enough. It's not good, but we're going alone. We only represent coalition partners. Gentlemen, this concerns the entire country, both left and right and all citizens, not just HDZ and its coalition partners. And for that, here we appeal to you, let us in, so we can't wait until you remember something, until you remember citizens with credits. Well, we had to propose a law. We don't have another model. Our representatives didn't sit with the government's representatives at the meeting so they could make some kind of suggestion there, so here you are, fellow Shuker, you complete it and you say, and you made a good proposal. Here, there's only the ones with the loans, there's no lying, there's no insurance houses, there's no such thing as that, so we could do a whole proposal together. And this is how we have to make suggestions when you don't listen to us, you don't want to hear us. You're saying it's not time for politicizing, and it's yesterday as a charger. Plenkovic, Sanader, Bozinovic, in his uniform on the fifth, 5th day in a row, calls counterpart Bernardic and SDP. That's, what's that? That's not politicizing? You've got suggestions, you've got suggestions, we'll respect everything, you don't respect anything today. You haven't accepted any of our amendments today. So what exactly are all our suggestions stupid? Well, I didn't realize it from your discussions that we're proposing nonsense or stupidity, but even praise it, but look, what, we're enough for ourselves. That's not good. We're not at war, but we're not in any ordinary condition. And not to mention, this session procedure, first in that building of INA over there, and today here and limiting replicas and speeches, I hope that from the 15th time we get back to our building things will go back to normal. I don't have any more time, but I expect we'll get back to normal and start listening to us as an opposition. Because, look, this situation will pass, I hope as soon as possible. Maybe in a month, maybe in two. Maybe in 3 and then they'll [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to file accounts. [[Intruder: Stay here.]] So it won't be binco Support, we can all the time... [[We have 3 replicas.]] Okay, thank you, here, just to finish the thought. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198247	Thank you. A colleague of Hajdukovic's. Here's the first replica, the second one's a colleague of Shucker's, then a colleague of Jagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djujic, you're talking about a call for community, this lack of respect for the opposition, so I'd just like to go over there and say that HDZ calls for consensus and for community only when it suits them. And you know how they experience that unity and consensus? "Here you can back us up." And we are not criticizing or criticizing, nor criticizing, but making concrete suggestions. Yeah, maybe some of our proposals aren't perfect, but that's why, in the debate, we should all come up with the best proposals to protect our citizens. And.../incomprehensible... when we do that to HDZ, they reject it. And therefore, I fear that these measures will eventually turn out to be flawed in a lot of things, that they will change many times, that they will contribute to the uncertainty of the labour market and the market in general in the economy and we will actually produce exactly the counterproductive effect of what we wanted, which is to protect citizens, workers, but also entrepreneurs and economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198249	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198250	Comrade Hajdukovic, of course, that all our measures are not perfect, such as the Government's all measures. But two heads are smarter than one, and that's what we've been trying to do all along to deal with this crisis, not to have the HDZ running its story. Well, look, they dropped the Parliament, that debate in the INA about that package last time was nothing, what pro-forma, out there at the President of the Parliament saying you have the right to 2 replicas per club. So they don't even want to listen to us. They won't listen to us today. So it's not going anywhere. So, we should, this is not a HDZ crisis and its coalition partners, but all of Croatia's citizens, and we must have the opportunity to talk together and all the best, every party, every political option that has in its ranks to make it easier for the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198251	Thank you. Next replica, fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198252	Thank you very much. Well, it's not good to say things that aren't right. I'll use the softest expression, if my colleague Bauk were here, he could confirm to you that the Prime Minister has summoned all these leaders and opposition parties and clubs and has exposed them to measures to discuss. So much for that, that's the facts. Secondly, I think my personal debate today was about discussing the subject. Third thing, colleague Djujic, we've known each other for a long time. I was expecting, since I'm the only MP from the opposition here, that you're going to try to put in some arguments to convince me that something is not contained in the existing laws, that I did something wrong. You've been talking all along about how someone like this, how you're somebody like that. Okay, that's what you said, that's what your colleagues will say, but explain why your laws are good, I even said that one law and missed a target because those funds can't pay off what they're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198253	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198254	And fellow Shuker, I expected you to convince us why our laws are not good and that the government did better than us and that we should give up. But on the contrary, you said that one segment did well in this moratorium law on loans, so what do I have to explain to you that this is a good move? Well, you know it better than I do, you said it yourself. In fact, you've spread the story that we haven't covered the Leasing Houses, that we haven't included insurance companies, so here's what we talked about before, we could have given one quality whole law together. And when you said we didn't sit down, that we didn't, that, uh, Comrade Bauk, here he came now, that the Prime Minister invited them to that first package of measures that the entrepreneurs and all welcomed to the knife together. This last vote we voted here today at noon you presented to coalition partners on Thursday and on Friday came to debate after a hasty procedure in HS, i.e. in the basement of the INA on 2 representatives per club. And we couldn't make a contribution, no one listened to us, no amendment was adopted, today Here, who's listening to us? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Who are we talking to?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198255	Thank you. Last replica, colleague Sagar Comrade Sagar, here you go. [[Intruder: My emotions are working.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198256	Dear colleague Djujic. So, you said it right. The situation is quite complex, and when you say that we're going back to normal, then you should keep in mind that this return will be extremely difficult. It is clear that there will be a danger to the health of citizens and that at that moment citizens will start living normally. But back to those positions that weren't good before this crisis, I'm talking about economic situations where citizens were and the economy is going to be difficult to achieve, let alone what we planned before this crisis in terms of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. So it's very important that the government listens to you now, that it really listens to all the good advice because at this point we're just responding to what's happening right now. We are not thinking about what will happen in the future, and in these measures there are many proposals that will affect the future, and so we need to think about what will be in the future because we already need to know what it is, what kind of rebalancing the government will have to propose soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198257	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198258	My debate was like this because five minutes is really little to explain and to explain each of these measures. I think some of them are making their own argument. But why was I talking about this debate? That's because I'm afraid, and I see it, that the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic don't care what we think or care about. There's one proof today. So today he's talking about this law on tracking. He talks, he says, well, you gave all the data to Facebook and Google, so why don't you give it to HDZ? Why don't you give us, too, even so they follow you, so let's follow you. And then the journalists tell them, but it wasn't adopted in the Parliament, today it's, it's a decision to go to another reading, then he says, and well, it's not today, it's going to be adopted next week. So here's how HDZ sees us as the most representative or legislative body in the country. And for that reason I appeal once again to HDZ and to the government, please include representatives of the opposition, listen to us, tell us, this is stupid, this is smart, but we are going together to look for solutions for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198259	Thank you. Next individual debate... The next individual debate is a debate by colleagues from Peja Grbina, here are some interventions. Here you go, buddy Grbin, here you go, thank you. Careful fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198260	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will concentrate on two things that matter to me personally, and I also believe that they are important to a large number of Croatian citizens, and one especially to people from the area I come from, from Istria and the entire Adriatic coast. The first thing is, of course, a moratorium on loans. Dear fellow Shuker, saying just before me, said the law proposed by the moratorium on loans was missing. My answer is, okay, but unlike the government's proposal, at least he exists. The government has not proposed such a missing proposal, the government has proposed nothing. The government has only left it to banks and bankers that, on the basis of their own decision, their own goodwill, their own profit assessment, solve the problem of postponing the loan with their debtors. And what does it look like in practice? A few people came to me, for example, one lady has a loan, she's been paying him off for a while, 3,000 kuna, exactly 2700 kn per month. She will have to pay 6,000 kuna additional interest for the six-month delay, 6,000 kuna. 1,000 kunas have calculated the monthly bank's interest. A gentleman contacted me last year who took a loan, also at war about 3,000 kuna per month, but because he took the loan last year at this point mostly pays interest, and the principal will come in line for some better days. He will postpone by 18,000 kuna for the six months he would have paid during that period of 6 months, so to get a delay in the payment of 18,000 kuna which he will definitely have to pay, to him, the interest for those 6 months exceeds the amount of 12,000 kuna. 12,000 kuna additional interest will be paid to the bank on his loan. And you know what the worst part of it still has to be solemnized by the credit contract annex, and as an amount of course, it will account for the full amount of credit, which means that it will still have 1,500 – 2,000 kuna. So he's going to be spending six months on 15 thousand kunas. For a delay in payment of 18,000 kuna, they will pay 15,000 kuna. With all due respect, it's neither moral nor fair, nor useful. The delay, without the simultaneous delay of payment of interest or the release of interest payments, is not intended. It is only temporary assistance to citizens and citizens who will pay you the same citizens and citizens extremely expensive one day when they start returning credit. And what else is going to happen? Given the duration of only 6 months, and it is evident that many will not return to the position of paying off the loan even longer after that since it only lasts 6 months it does not achieve real effects. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, if you want to help Croatian citizens and citizens, Croatian society and the Croatian economy you do not have to accept the SDP proposal, I support what my colleague Schuker said, make it comprehensive, refer it to the procedure, I will first, I will raise my hand to him first, but you must, you must suspend the course of interest during the delay, otherwise there is no purpose. The other problem I want to talk about is the renter's problem. Household owners do not pay income tax according to actual income, but pay it according to the flat-rate rate determined according to the number of bearings in the frameworks of the prescribed law. Last year we raised the amount of sheets, we made it possible for local self-government units to go up to 1,500 kuna instead of a maximum of 300 kuna earlier, I'm talking about income tax rate, to make it quite clear. So we increased the amount multiplely and it was introduced to pay for additional beds, which was not previously the case. At present, as far as I'm aware, most or almost all of the shoppers have been delayed. However, it is quite clear, it is clear that income from the tourist season in these three months, so 4, 5 and 6, and probably not even afterwards. The delay is fine for now, but please, before the period on which the delay is given, bring a measure of the write-off of the flat-rate income tax from the tenant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198261	Thank you. Stay here please, you have one replica. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198262	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, I had to intervene because my colleague Peja is a lawyer, and I wouldn't want to give him a lecture, but when you have a loan, then you get a payment plan. In the payment plan you have a monthly war that contains war and contains interest and a bank if you do not need to pay the principal, but you have to pay the corresponding part of the interest and that is what we all need to talk about why I said it wasn't just loans to Croatian citizens and businessmen that it has full, but such a figure when you bring it out it's totally incorrect because you're not talking about the same thing, it's not interest on funds that haven't been paid for 3 months. I repeat, when you raise a loan, when you enter a Leasing relationship or anything else you get a payment plan and it is clearly based on the law you know what it contains. So this information of yours is not correct, you got it wrong, and you unfortunately misread it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198263	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My esteemed colleague Shuker didn't get it from me, it was obtained by citizens from banks asking for a postponement of the loan. It was given to the citizens of the banks, the citizens got this bill, and the banks want to charge them for it. And by the way, I know very well that there's interest on the capital. If the loan payment started last year, then you and I know very well that the principal remained intact. And that six months of paying interest on that principal will be very difficult for whoever's taking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198265	Stay still here was still a replica of a fellow Laloveca.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198266	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms I see you mentioned the tenants, but certainly what should be noted is that the government has unfortunately not thought about those who are in the lease of business premises, which are now closed business spaces and when there is no, means the contract between the tenant and the tenant is now zero kuna. However, there is no clear answer from the tax administration or the Government whether they will be charged at market value for this lease, so all these people who rent business premises will receive a fee for either VAT or income tax. So here you're talking about one category, but I think this category, too, means that they're renting business premises so that in 3 or 6 months, VAT or income taxes don't come out, especially when the market doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198267	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198268	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague, but first of all, he would direct his own representatives to the government. Last week I spoke about the problem of renting a business space and there are two problems. The first is the one you addressed, which is the fact that many tenants have freed their tenants from the rent because they are aware that they need good, good people. At the same time, however, regardless of the amount not paid by the lease, the tax administration accounts for the value added tax, but also the income tax or profit tax, and that by assessment. It's not right, and I think the ministry should address it in the relevant tax laws. However, there is another problem, and I ask you to transfer this to the Minister of State Property, which is the problem that there is no possibility in the Law on the Hire of Business Space that there is no possibility that, any state, any local self-government of freedom of the tenants from the obligation to pay or to reduce that obligation. So... We have to change that law, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198269	Thank you. Comrade Matteljan, here you go, no need for intervention, colleague Grbin didn't touch the work space, but fine, if you want then... Well, fellow Mattelian, Mathelan. Damir Mateljan, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Secretary of State. The SDP shows itself in this crisis situation, acts as a responsible and serious party. On the one hand, this is affirmative, so we have accepted in two rounds a package of measures that the Government has sent to debate in this House, which concerns helping those who are at risk of spreading the COVID-19 virus. On the other hand, we're bringing, we're proposing our own measures that unfortunately come across something like this. So, uh, the government's self-interest, the self-interest of ruling MPs actually tells us what the government thinks about these measures, or what they think about the SDP and what they feel unfortunately about the opposition. The government when it also adopted that first set of measures, including the law that we had not debated, is the Civil Protection Act, saying, so on these measures, the Government has also urged the local state to also plant its financial backs and that it is also the local state that will adapt some of its measures to help all those, whether they are citizens or those companies that have died in this crisis. The local state has also done so in a way that it could, freeing the municipal fee, the communal contribution itself, paying the market price of kindergarten so that they can survive, however, what the government did not say, what is in some way not being said, and in this House I have not heard, let alone in the media, and that is that it is, in fact, with those first and other measures that the local state has just planted its back for reasons, because that financial burden on those measures that go as free entrepreneurs is just directed at the only tax, on the only real tax which is exclusively a tax belonging to local self-government, which is income tax. Without income tax, which accounts for almost 70% of all original incomes from local self-government, local self-government can survive this month to two days. Those who are with... Which so far seemed to us to be highly developed areas, won't last a month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is very important to tell people that this one will not have preschool education, that their infrastructure local will be able to disintegrate, that there will be no public lighting, that there will be no public transport, or people need to tell, that these measures will partially save the economy and that they will completely destroy the level of local self-government that we have achieved so far. It will simply be so if we don't come up with compensatory measures that no one talks about, and I understand why no one talks about compensatory measures because there is no money for compensation measures. So when we talk about planting the backs of local self-government, then there are things that don't have just financial weight, but also that organisational weight. The famous name around the pass. Finally, the public and the government have realized that there are over 300 units of local self-government that are simply not functionally whole and cannot function in a way that in that unit local self-government citizens can achieve both rights and all their therefore things they must do, such as, the most banal going to the bank, to the post office, to the pharmacy because you have municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have no banks, no post office, no pharmacy, no elementary school or anything else. And this depends not only on their size or their critical mass, but on their capacitation, both to people and to their financial capacitation. I don't know how much time I have left, so I'm going to figure it out. So usually after all these crises we like to go out with that sentence that's total flossula, which is, we're going to come out of this crisis even stronger and stronger. [[/Intruder: 15.]] We won't. So we'll get out of this crisis weaker and worse. But I hope at least So wiser that what concerns [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The local self-government will go into this reform of the local self-government reform. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198271	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Gordan Maras, colleague Maras, come in. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. I must admit that, I have, I feel strange in this hall and all this together when a man looks at you a little bit sorry and people who work here in the organization and people from HRT because you have a feeling that this is being done as a tower at the moment of the whole situation, or the system of decision-making in the Republic of Croatia, where we, as the Croatian Parliament, are moving from the hall to the hall from Šubićeva to INU, might now be able to go to another hall, in another town, I think that the institution as a Croatian Parliament must participate more and decide in the whole crisis that is happening in the Republic. So, if as a state we do not respect our institutions, if we have a meeting president who here says that the Rules of Procedure are 100% non-respectable, I think it is one of the most recent statements I have heard in the Croatian Parliament or on the other hand says about 129 votes, it sends you a message in fact that the Croatian Parliament as an institution at the moment seems to bother the HDZ, which is also seen from the overall behaviour, work, and at the end of the day and the situation which is now the government in this Chamber, where there is usually no one else. And on the other hand, discussing such important issues in these circumstances sounds pointless, because you see that you're proposing things, very serious things. Because when you propose that citizens do not pay for a year, they have a moratorium on loans it is a very serious thing for Croatian citizens, perhaps of crucial importance to survive the next year, which will be marked by crisis, loss of work, loss of income from tourism and all that is, then I think that such a topic is shown respect for both Croatian citizens and parliament to discuss under normal conditions in front of parliamentary representatives that this topic is accepted with respect and that we eventually come together to a certain solution. Because if the opposition supports the government's measures, so what is not logical is that instead of Vice-President Sanader giving lessons to opposition deputies he takes into account what the opposition is proposing. And the other thing when we suggest also one measure, means that when it comes to parents who at the moment have a problem with organising their lives in general how to educate children, how to stay at home, how to go to work, how to combine it all together, you can't use it in the most part of the grandparents' cases because if parents do, they're exposed, so they can pass on to their children, and then their parents can't look after their children because they can get infected too, so they're huge problems. And if, at that point, we suggest that we take a model by which one parent can stay at home and pay for sick leave, as the Health Insurance Act covers some other examples, so that's a very important topic. It deserves to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, it deserves to be heard, it deserves to be considered and perhaps accepted. We can't accept the situation where the secretary of state comes and says he's not authorized to talk about it here because like he's not the finance minister or not the prime minister, they're the only ones who can. Well, we don't live in a monarchy, where one person decides what can be done, what can't be done. Although it looks like some of them are just fine with you. We live in a parliamentary democracy where parliament plays its part and I am dissatisfied with how it all works now, and I must admit that I will talk about it in the future and when we return to the Hall of the Croatian Parliament and appeal here and to the people sitting in the presidency of the assembly, and I will certainly speak to the representative of our club to simply not allow such a situation. So we live in parliamentary democracy, we're responsible people, we can contribute to this situation as painlessly as possible for our fellow citizens. We don't agree with the statements he made before Mr. Pernar I think that this time we're fighting a crisis is good, that we're all satisfied that we have very few infected and deceased in relation to other countries and we support it and we will continue to support it if it works in a quality way and on the other hand if we can participate We want to participate, we want to enable solutions that will help Croatian citizens to get through this crisis as well as we can and the more painlessly we can not do anything to get Croatian citizens to live normally as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198273	Stay here, please. We have two replicas. He's my first colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198274	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I also think that measures and what the government is doing at this point are good and that it gives good results, and we, with our SDP, as a constructive opposition with our proposals just want it to be better, especially with this third package of measures. We are thinking about the time that comes after this health crisis, meaning in a few months, because we, with our package of measures, have included exactly those citizens that the Government has not included in its activities so far. And that's why I think we should maybe listen a little bit more. And as for the functioning and work of the assembly, I agree with you and I will talk about it all the time and keep warning about it and I want once again here to underline the line that these 15 days, 20 as far as we're not in the building of the Croatian Parliament, but in the basement of the INE there are no days we joined in the order that we have the same rules. So, not to disrespect the Rules of Procedure, but there are no agreements, because today it's worth one thing, tomorrow it's worth something else, then the day after tomorrow it's worth the third, then one chairman respects one rule, the other, and that's not good. We have a Rules of Procedure which is a sacred letter to us in all situations, if anything needs to be changed, then we need to change the Rules of Procedure and we all need to adapt to that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198275	Okay, thank you, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198276	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. I think that if we function as a rule or not, by 100% of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djujic has taken 1% of the time limit on the replica, so anyone can choose for themselves if the rules don't apply to everyone. And on this side, I ask you to pass it on to the President of the Croatian Parliament that we want to function normally and that all of this together is quite nothing and that in some way Croatian citizens deserve to do it in some normal conditions, to transfer their problems, to try to solve their problems and to contribute together to this crisis as soon as possible and to allow Croatian citizens to have confidence in the institutions that represent them. The message that none sits here except Mr. Shucker of HDZ MPs is a message that automatically denys the call on joint action by HDZ [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely visible from what's going on here. [[Intruder: Next replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.]] So... HDZ with a figure in its pocket calls all opposition parties... [[/Intruder: Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198277	Comrade Maras, please. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198278	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I absolutely agree with you in your qualifications that parliament should behave in crisis situations. For example, the Hungarians had a very good solution before this happened, namely that Orban received such broad powers. According to their Constitution, in the event of an emergency, parliament is constantly sitting, no one can disband it and every 15 days the government should submit a report to Parliament which, on the basis of this report, then extends or reduces, or extends the state of emergency. The role of Parliament here should be crucial precisely because of what we talked about. Some measures are imperfect and just in the discussion with more ideas and from multiple sides and more angles, we can come up with quality solutions. One of these is the staying of one parent at home and because of small children and because of the risk of transmission of infections, so we also protect the health of the population, protect jobs because the state jumps in where it can and we try to help as much as possible. Our citizens to adapt to the new creation [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a situation. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Hajdukovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198279	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198280	Thank you. I absolutely agree with you, and I think that in this situation the most we could do is help us, given that hundreds of citizens who share their problems with us every day are talking to us. But I ask you, if we are calling for joint action and unity, where is Jandrokovic now? Where's Branko Bacic? Where are all these HDZ people who need to discuss with us the proposals that help Croatian citizens? Di, where's Ante Sanader who called the opposition SDP yesterday if he hadn't suggested anything constructive? Where are these people, why aren't they taking part here with us in this debate? Why don't they say if our proposal is good or bad? Can it or cannot it be applied? Which is why it does not allow Croatian citizens to go peacefully to Easter and not think about paying off their loans and not leave them at the mercy of their banks. Believe me, if we don't set the rules the way To be for all [[Intruder: Time.]] identically, that people know transparently what their right is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Which is what it isn't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Banks will do so in his arrangement. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] I think that It's not correct and yes [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] We should put it that way. [[Intruder: Comrade Hajdukovic, please prepare for discussion.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198281	Thank you. Please, intervention, colleague Hajdukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198282	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Here you are Mr. Hajdukovic, please, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. Here you are, colleague Hajdukovic.]] Well, unfortunately, this crisis has shown how unprepared we are for these situations in every sense. In economics, I would dare say politically, which, we are witnessing right now, organisational, logistics, social, etc., etc. Let's just take the farm. This crisis has shown our agricultural production on its knees, which is simply a victim of many years of bad policy, poor direction, non-strategic thinking. That's right, so unfortunately we're victims and in a political sense because we don't have enough culture politically to listen to everything, all the suggestions, all the problems on the table and try to deal with these problems together. I fear that HDZ's unity is only, that is, their calls for unity are only when it suits them and that their perception of community and consensus is based on "that is what you can support us, we allow you to support us". But it's not the point, it's not the purpose of parliamentary democracy. Just because there are more of us from different parts of Croatia, from different segments of life in Croatia, we can give better suggestions, we can warn of some of the problems that perhaps the Government or we as legislators have initially missed and may warn of some things that may later have serious repercusions. One of them is definitely paying off citizens' loans. Why? Many were financially planning differently, things that are unfortunately very difficult, since this epidemic, I read in one medium that about a thousand people get fired daily. If that's true, it's a terrible piece of information. In the meantime, there was also an earthquake in Zagreb, so many families in Zagreb are exposed to an additional unplanned cost of housing adaptation, if they were lucky that their apartments were still useful. For all these people, the postponement of payments, or the moratorium on the payment of loans per year, will mean little space for, to catch air, to be financially consolidated and to continue to pay their commitments. Without that beginning, I'm afraid it'll be very difficult for them, that many won't be able to repay their debts, many will lose their jobs in the meantime, we don't know how further the pandemic situation will move, as far as the economy is concerned, so we're trying to solve this equation with all the unknowns so that at least one acquaintance can be introduced into it. Also, no one has mentioned seasonal employees except for our measures so far, the 3rd package of measures. Or permanent, so-called. Permanent season. There are slightly less than 6 thousand in Croatia. These are people who, during the season, make about 6 to 7 months enough to survive the whole year and thus service their debts and all the other financial obligations they have. Since nothing's happened since the season, we need to think about protecting these exactly, slightly less than 6,000 people. If we're counting on it to be 6,000 families, then you can imagine how much repercussion could be if we don't adequately protect them. Also, people who have been fired as a consequence of the crown will be a major problem or we need to help them and take care of them, help them to stop their feet and serve them in their short - term financial obligations if God gives them no credit. Also, no one mentions employees who are at the Bureau who have no compensation. What's the number of people like that? So they have no right to any compensation for various reasons, which now because of a crisis that will become and grow into an economic crisis have no right and have no perspective of finding a job soon. It's the same segment of people we have to worry about and who we have to help. Therefore, as I have said, our measures may not be perfect, neither are the government's measures, but I believe that with one different approach, in a broader dialogue and in a dialogue with more respect, above all, from the ruling to the opposition, there would be much more quality proposals. Because I am afraid that these government proposals will need to be corrected more than once, that they will be subject to quite frequent changes and that this will create additional uncertainty among citizens but also in the economy because of the constant changes in market conditions, whether labour, whether the economy, or markets in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198283	Please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198284	My colleague Hajdukovic and I, with this proposal, are essentially concerned about citizens who have not yet felt this crisis. So, you said yourself when this health problem goes down for, we hope as soon as possible that a part of the people except for those who are unemployed and who live on the edge of poverty and those who stood up to yesterday will feel this crisis very well. And now let's say I set an example, today at the 2nd month of this year the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was about 6,500 kuna, I'm going to stick to those figures. So someone who had 6,500 kuna before this pandemic, took out a loan, planned his own life, got hit by this situation, and, say, most employers put these workers on a minimum or these 4,000 kuna due to government measures. So these workers lost 2,000, 2,500 kuna, and they'll only feel that later. This moratorium on loans means a lot to them, and it makes the situation much easier because other than preserving jobs, we encourage and spending citizens right now. in this way that these funds can be spent. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198285	Thank you, colleague Giujic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198286	I agree, fellow Djujic, that the crisis will end today, the consequences will be great and long-term. So we can't predict how many more people will lose their jobs, unfortunately, how much pay cuts, purchasing power, if it comes to question and swearing courses, it's also going to be a big problem. So there's a lot of problems waiting for us. But the same thing that's important for us to point out when we talk about our moratorium law, I think it's that those who have a good financial situation don't have to use this law. So those who have regular incomes, which will continue to have regular incomes, can choose to continue to service their debts to banks. That way, they won't be cut off as far as the payment plan or the end of their commitment to the bank is concerned, as they planned, but unfortunately I'm afraid they'll be in your minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198287	Thank you. I would like a little intervention and an individual debate from colleague Karolina Leaković. Here you go. Last reported debate, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, if we are in a crisis without precedent, and we are in the midst of the worst yet to come, and then, at least economically, then from the government and the political and economic elite as residents, it is certain that we have the right to expect solutions that will benefit the largest number of people. And these people who live on their work, not on capital, not on rent, not on inheritance, not on the accumulated, but on people, and these are the ones that live in Croatia the most, in fact, on their fair salary regardless of whether it is earned in trade, in the food industry, in transport, in services, in schools, in the hospital or in the office. If we work indefinitely on a particular one, then our contracts are extended every, every few months, maybe not always in accordance with the law, and we know that there are such situations too. He knew that the government declaredly insists on community, it's not a new word discovered, but it seems to me that for this government, a new word has been discovered, or one that is very often in the use of last weeks of solidarity. We're saying that the health crisis, or the government, is saying that we need to overcome the health crisis with common forces, appeal to the responsibility of each and every one of us, and I can certainly agree with that and I can support it. Of course, if we are not deprived of human rights in this government’s once unnecessarily restrictive decisions and, of course, if we are not deliberately deceived and tried to hide some information. We know that we have recently had such a case with the purchase of medical equipment, and we have had one case with a secret meeting in the government between the prime minister, the culture minister and the editor-in-chief of several media houses on which, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not want to present details and did not answer any questions about the meeting. The public and journalists must never, nor in this situation, remain deprived of the answers to questions about how decisions are made, why the main editors of some media houses were invited to a meeting in the government and what they were promised, to report on government measures that they would receive in return. So, unlike this solidarity when it comes to the health crisis and the epidemiological measures, when it comes to economics, I think it's hard to agree that we're all on the same boat, that it's the same for all of us, that the crisis on all of us is the same, that we all have to tighten the belt, that either we're all gonna challenge and save private entrepreneurs and their property, or we're all going to fail, and that it's not the time to question each other, and it's especially not the time to insist on working rights, on collective contracts, on collective agreements, on coefficients, says cut yourself immediately and now without any renunciation, etc., in other words socialize or share private losses, and we don't touch private profits. It has already been said today on several occasions that we have not seen how the banks have reacted in this crisis whether they have submitted part of the burden. They did not bear part of the burden, however, we saw that the owners of private companies better sent their workers and most of their workers to the stock market immediately, although perhaps they should not have done so. If we ever find out, so what is the number of those who immediately sent workers to the stock market and before measures, we will, of course, ask the Ministry of Labour and HZZ. We know there's no write-off for citizens, no lifting unnecessary banking obligations, no abandonment of performances, no appraisals. We still haven't actually made a decision about parents who care for children who don't go to school and kindergarten to determine what SDP is looking for today. We also did not make a decision that even now unemployed who have worked less than 9 months in the past 24 months have the right to compensation, this should certainly be taken into account. And there are a lot of problems that people warn us about, so I will take advantage of the opportunity with us of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health to warn him of a letter of 17 March which she sent to the Ministry, directed the Croatian Association for Rare Diseases, which warns of a special situation involving employees who are at the same time patients with autoimmune diseases, parents of chronically ill children who raise their voices and warn that they have to work, and they are very exposed to the group, so I call on the ministry to take care of their health. Ideas for the State to be a cornerstone of economic policy, economic activity to use this crisis to change the dominant political economic paradigm, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, we have yet to hear and I appeal in this regard. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198289	Thank you. And my last debate with my colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last few weeks a paradigm of relations with state institutions has changed. The rule so far is to say so to the public or most citizens in some vague situation between institutions and individuals as a rule stood aside from individuals. And lately, in this vague situation between individuals and institutions, they tend to side with the institution especially if it's the police about healthcare professionals or about someone from these now we call it the more popular service represented by the state. It is good when institutions gain greater trust from citizens, but it is never good to give non-critical trust to anyone, to either individual or to institutions. Therefore, they should always be questioned and treated critically. One of the equative examples was the police's conduct in the case of two citizens in Split who wanted to take a walk, and then there was, I would say training, unnecessary training of strictness against individuals, and there was a journalist there and it became generally known. We have then a reverse case, so in front of a church also in Split police showed much more tolerance, patience towards a priest who invited people to mass, and when the officers came to warn them that it was a violation of the headquarters's recommendations then he fell into an argument with a policeman that a police officer had finally had to interpret something from a religion, it was perhaps excessive tolerance, but somewhere between this situation the increased power of the institution I would say in relation to the rights of the individual should find a good balance. This is why it is good for us to talk about this in the Croatian Parliament live at the thematic session of the Committee on Human Rights. So, on one portal came an article about what all citizens ask the attorney general, I wouldn't say that it was an explanation of litigation with state institutions, it was really about certain individual problems of life that people came across because of this epidemic and the rapid ones, but when the measures were faster then they weren't enough, there wasn't enough thought about possible side effects that I believe had time to think about them further to be avoided. What do all the citizens actually write to the D.A.? So most often it's about people who got fired, and for various reasons they can't exercise their rights as unemployed people. Then it is about students who, because of their inability to work during the epidemic, cannot be supported and asked the competent authorities to assist students in the form of a delay in the payment of tuition. Afterwards, citizens have problems communicating with HZZ, and related to the exercise of the right for the unemployed. Most often they fail to obtain feedback on who is processing or their demands and fail to exercise rights. They are particularly numerous citizens who have jobs but who fail to work because of their obligations to young children in circumstances where kindergartens and schools are closed, then they do not know how to take care of children when they have to work again because of the end of their vacation and sick leave, then they state that despite their open-label care, employers call them to return to work, then others report that the employer determines 7-day work without rest despite the care of underage children, and then ask that the employer asks them to work even though he has not provided them with protections such as masks and gloves, then the worker reported whose employer requests to come to work personally even though he does not live in a city where he works and depends on public transportation and can't de facto come. The employers are also reporting. And that's to say, someone hired two seasons, but now he doesn't know what to do with them and their compensation, and in the end we have cases because of these passes, so he can't worry, come to visit a child living in another municipality, and he doesn't get a pass. Retired people who can't go to a bank, to a pharmacy, etc., or to a post office to raise a pension because they don't have a post office. And all these problems, I'm here, as long as I have time to count, require reaction, require reaction. an institution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198291	First, it's Mrs. Crescent. Buric, she can have an intervention at any moment, please, then colleague Schuker. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198292	Thank you. Thank you so much, Vice President HS. So, very briefly. We are here today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 5 state secretaries from 5 different ministries, now the two of us have delivered an oral opinion on the SDP package and by the fact that we were 5 out of 5 different ministries, I think it's a very clear message of respect for the promoter and I'm not saying it at all that I would be pathetic but very honest and open. Health is not everything, however, all without health is absolutely nothing and it is a saying that is more than ever proved true today. What I am also glad is that today most are in a direct or indirect way, regardless of what political groups came from, that parliamentary representatives and MPs have said that this double crisis that we are facing is strategically well-led and that we have good governance. Moreover, this is what we are talking about today, which is a package of measures, which, which is unlegislative, this government, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, has provided only so far 65 billion kuna and what I must mention, is that it is neither the first nor the last package of measures. You know that yourself. - Mrs. Crescent. Leakovic asked a question about people who had lost their jobs in this crisis, and that is why we are talking about the number of about 13,000 people, newly unemployed, which is why the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, or the executive body of the Croatian Employment Service yesterday, included in the criteria for obtaining support for the preservation of jobs, the possibility that employers who report to this support should these people return to work, that they can get that support for them too, so we are talking about support from 4 thousand kuna. There he is. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198293	Stay, you have one more replica, please. Thank you very much. [[- Yeah, good.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk. [[Intruder: Please.]] Thank you. So then, no, no, wait, wait, there's another line, don't leave yet, there's a colleague named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198294	Thank you. State Secretary. It's a good-looking jump, "Health isn't everything, but without health, we're nothing." Did I quote correctly? [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] The saying, it's more to me, it's to be honest, it's more to me to jump. [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] But health protection can't be a front for anything to be done. You can't do everything. So, you need to balance between health, among other segments of life, and you know what our Constitution says, what's everything? Thus, even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the state, the right to life, to ban torture, cruel and humiliating treatment and punishment, thoughts, freedom of mind, conscience, and religion cannot be limited. That's all. So, I agree on the importance of what you've said, but I'm not in favour of such rhetoric justifying possible restrictions on everything and everything for health, but I like the saying, now it's not, it's good, but it's not good for political game. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198295	Here, answer, secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198296	Thank you, Honorable Representative Bauk. So I repeat again. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to preserve health, protect health, on the other hand, preserve jobs, stand behind all Croatian entrepreneurs and workers and try and help and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198297	Thank you, too. Now my colleague Schuker is on behalf of the MPs' club final. I'm just asking for my colleagues' intervention. Thank you. How? I don't doubt you, just what I'm stressing. Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198298	Thank you very much. Well, I answered about three things. The first was once in the Croatian Parliament to have mutual respect among MPs and respect for what the MPs wanted to say. Unfortunately, however, those who spoke most today about how there are no MPs in the Assembly, now there are none in the assembly. There are four of us left. The other thing I wanted to say, I'm honest, but really this is what I tell you out of the soul, after all, and my debate was like this, I expected that colleagues from the SDP who have been reported for discussion each by one or two laws will try to explain the legal proposals to us, and with this, a couple of colleagues who have mentioned certain things, we haven't heard anything. We heard attacks on the government. This is what the Government likes, so eventually on the President of the Parliament, on this, on that, etc., I think today was a debate to fight, not to conflict, to oppose opinions and to think about how to solve this crisis. And lastly, yesterday, I just got this information, the EU Commission confirmed HBOR's portfolio loan scheme for liquidity, so much so that I'm going to mention again and apostrophe my colleague Lalovec, the two of us, no matter what we're from different clubs, are saying that at this point we need to secure funds from all possible sources, and this is just another confirmation that the government is working on all fronts. Some things can be spoken publicly, and some things can be spoken of only when they happen. It is a good thing that anyone who has any knowledge of professional everyday life as a proposal in the Croatian Parliament, but look at colleagues and colleagues, maximum respect and according to this institution was that the colleagues from the club who proposed this legislative proposal would be more present in this debate, it would simply point to the seriousness of this proposal, this is not reading any lesson, but when you give the political rival a chance for creamworth then it would be a shame not to take advantage of it. And how seriously you think about these suggestions of yours is best shown by those who spoke of them, I say honor with exceptions, and these exceptions remain now and in the assembly, the best shows how many people are left in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198299	Thank you, too. My colleague Bauk, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is final, and I apologize on behalf of the Proposer, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Proposer 10, 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Shuker, Honored Representative Hajdukovic, Honored representative Leakovic, the esteemed vice president, then what you should welcome yourself to, I thank you. So, first of all, the SDP Club didn't choose the time of the debate, we got it this afternoon, we could discuss it tomorrow morning, it might end something more, it might be a little more media attention, but the debate is in line with 90% of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, these 10% of what the president of the day said to adapt it to the situation. We think it was our responsibility to propose a package of measures to help citizens in the first place because some of these proposals can happen in a very similar way from the government in the next month, it can happen. Well, then we'll have what you just said about creamworth, and we'll be able to say we told you or we suggested. And I don't see that that's some big problem, it's a political competition in these circumstances of the epidemic. So when a normal boxing situation without gloves is put on a little thicker gloves and watch every word, and sometimes some of our colleagues still fail to resist calling to cross that fine line between this constructive community that we witness and regular situations. So I would, however, be encouraged by criticism from fellow Shucker once again, briefly said what our proposals were, so 10 measures to help citizens affected by the pandemic. First fee of at least 4,000 kuna per month in the next 3 months for unemployed people who were fired. Then a fee of half a minimum salary per month or 1,625 kuna for the unemployed on the stock market and do not receive any compensation. Permanent seasons fee at a minimum salary of 3,250 kuna per month, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for social assistance users, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for pensioners with small pensions as well as for all persons below the income censorship, a cancellation of the RTV subscription for pensioners with small pensions and social assistance users. Subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna per month for renting the apartment for all of the most affected groups. Terminate the execution and increase the amount of wages exempt from the performance, issue of bank cards for blocked citizens for the on-line transaction, abolishing charges on-line transaction as in crisis conditions no physical contact. I don't think I've even listed all these suggestions. I believe that we will also get a written statement from the government before voting on our proposals, so that, since they have been proposed last week, and I can know the work and functioning of the government agree that maybe there was not enough time to get the government's written statement, but until the vote, since we now have a week's break, we can really get the government's written statement on our bill proposals, too, so that the foundation of them and the foundation of the government's work in the future would allow us to see how much these arguments have been justified, and how much they were merely the fruit of us proposing something without the government's proposal. It's the same thing in political life that's possible. I also believe that the assembly will find time to discuss perhaps in a united debate, such as today, proposals from other promoters, not only the SDP Club, but also other proposings, and that we will have to decide whether we are still in this situation in the constructive community as it is said, but it is not a good way not to accept any proposal, or any amendment of the opposition. Then indeed, as counterpart Maras said, we may be serving as a tower, and at the same time the bodies that make decisions are especially spared, excluded from criticism, the Maltas do not welcome any criticism against them on the knife as if they were protected from criticism or as if I were going to say it without a problem, holy cows, so there are no sacred cows in democracy. But what matters is that their decisions should be implemented and respected, but it is allowed and desirable if they are not good critics because they have also created certain problems for citizens who may still be less than the problems that have been spared by the citizens, for example, I think most of all about preventing the spread of the infection. I thank again everyone who participated, thank the state secretaries from all five ministries, especially my colleague Buric and colleagues from the health ministry who was Plazonic, where he was a representative in the previous assembly of the parliament, but I was afraid not to make a mistake, who remained until the end and representatives, especially colleagues Suker who stayed until the end. I hope that, on our return to the Croatian Parliament, we will continue with the normal dynamics of the debate, that the Parliament will remain a place of control of the government and to prevent the arbitrary conduct of a body that is not good when they have no control and that I believe that other colleagues, whether they are from a position or opposition, will contribute. So, I think that in Croatia, we have long fought for democracy so that only so democratic institutions would now deprive their constitutional powers. Some laws could be passed today by agreement and by a two-thirds majority, but the Constitutional Court will then discuss it well, and for everything else we see next week in the new debate, in the new confrontations of opinions, I believe in new constructive decisions that citizens will be able to cope with this crisis as easily as possible. It will be easy if this lasts for two months, but if it lasts longer then the end of the epidemic will sooner be declared by the Minister of Finance than the Minister of Health because suddenly our alternative will die from hunger or from the crown of the virus becoming a general alternative. Therefore, we can endure for some time, but we also need to think about the scenarios of how to live in co-existence with the coronary virus with the least consequences for society, for citizens, for the economy and for the way we're used to living until the middle of the 3rd month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198301	Thank you. That concludes the debate on a set of ten laws, we'll vote on them when the conditions are met. Another information for counterpart Leaković, a colleague of Hajdukovic, a colleague of Shuker and a colleague of Bauk, the work of the Parliament continues on Wednesday 15th April at 9.30 p.m. on Mark's square with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Coastal Research Security, Carbon Exploitation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 821. Thank you very much and the secretary of state for being here. I wish everyone a happy Easter. Goodbye. SESSION DISCONTINUED
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198302	Final draft law supplementing the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 890. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. I am voting on that, the final proposal of that law, which the Government does not accept, please let us vote on. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the law has not received the required number of votes and has not been passed, 37 for, 3 abstentions, 74 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198303	Let's move on to the agenda. We have already agreed to conduct a joint discussion on the set of 6 laws proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club and one joint SDP representative's club and representative Goran Aleksic's team, and on three proposals for a conclusion submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, these are: - Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the Law on Contribution, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal for the Act on the Law on Obligors, First and Second Amendments, - Final Proposal for the Law on the Complementary of the Law on the Morals, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal of the Law on Obligations, the Emergency Act on the Taxes, the Second Amendments of the Act, the Second Amendments, the Second Amendment of the Act, the Act on the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Protection of the Act, the Law on the Act, the Second Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Rec, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Protection of the Law on the First, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the First, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law on the Law of the First, the First, the Law on the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the First, the Law on the Law on the Law, the Law of the Law, the Law, the Law, the Law of the First Act, the Law, on the Law on the Law of the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law, the Law, the First Act, the Law, the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on the Working of the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice. The government didn't deliver an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198304	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning, we warned a month and a half ago about the effects of the crisis caused by the coronary virus. Three weeks ago, we went out with our first package with more than 15 measures to help citizens and preserve jobs. Our measures were not then adopted by the government. Since the first government measures that followed only by our measures were too focused on prolongation, on delays, and they were not enough help for entrepreneurs, nor their employees, and time was leaking, the SDP sent our second package of more than 10 laws to save the economy and jobs, which we are unfortunately considering today. The second package comes today after voting on the government's package, shows in fact only demeaning and opposition, but also citizens, especially those citizens who have lost their jobs in the last two weeks due to late government reactions, over 20,000 of them as well as those citizens who at this point fear losing their jobs. Further demeaning comes precisely because the government was not even ready to manifest itself on this proposal. This only shows the relationship that currently exists in Croatia with all those who are trying to constructively help their proposals the poorest, most endangered, unemployed and other most vulnerable groups of citizens who are going through a severe crisis in Croatia thanks to the coronary virus. It is precisely because of a late reaction from the Government that the SDP proposed in the second package a write-off, not just a postponement of taxes and contributions, and we have suggested that we exempt the payment of profit tax for all entrepreneurs because this is not a time in which they can simply or should credit the state. Secondly, we have proposed the release from the payment of the flat-rate tax for craftsmen and small tenants due to special circumstances because they are closed due to the decision of the headquarters and we have proposed to write down 100% of the contributions for salaries to employees during the duration of the crisis simply so that they can help these people because they are closed by the decision of the headquarters due to the crown of the virus. After a very high public pressure, after we had pushed in the SDP for the past three weeks, offered to the Croatian public, and also to the Croatian government to help solve these problems in trying to preserve jobs, after pushing them to move faster, to simply do more in the direction of protection and employers, but also jobs, only one step was taken to help the economy. Therefore, the proposals for a write-down of taxes and contributions were accepted. But now you need at this specific moment of help right now to the citizens, to do what is not done. Help those most vulnerable, workers, but also unemployed, parents who stay with children at home, but also those workers who stay at home alone in self-insulation, as well as those on the first line of defense against the epidemic. Therefore, the SDP continues to insist on its second package of laws to help preserve jobs and therefore we still feel that our proposals are needed at this point. It is necessary to increase the basis for compensation for self-insulation workers to the average salary level because this fee of 2100 kuna is simply too small for a man's life. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide paid leave to at least one parent who spends time at home with his child under 12 years of age, especially since in this situation the parent is particularly affected at work. It is also necessary to increase the amount of non-taxable payments to help employers in particularly sensitive activities in the root of the crisis to reward their workers, especially those now on the first line of defence against the epidemic and helping Croatian citizens not to lack anything, so that they can reward traders, so that they can reward pharmacists, drivers, workers and logistics workers, as well as security guards, those whose simple work in these difficult times has not stopped but is even more pronounced. 4. it would be responsible to enable workers who are at risk of a job due to the crisis to pay 75% of the salary, up to a maximum of 5,100 kuna, it is a small cost to the state, and it is certainly a guarantee of a much better life for those people who cannot work in these conditions. And they can't work primarily on sectors for which Croatia's GDP depends most, it's tourism and hospitality. Tourism reminds me that it accounts for over 20% of our GDP, when tourism and hospitality are at stake in the government in this segment has done absolutely nothing, practically nothing but petty cosmetic and technical changes. We recall that the SDP has proposed to abolish the obligation to pay the flat-rate tax for small tenants, we have also proposed to abolish the obligation to pay advances for artisan craftsmen and to abolish certain parafiscal duties including the flat-rate amount of tourist tax and membership fee to the tourist community during the crisis. And I remind you that we will continue to insist that VAT in tourism and catering goes to 5% especially at this time of crisis, as we today insist that VAT on food delivery goes to 0% because we believe that in these difficult times, especially in the circumstances of the crisis when people order delivery needs to act on one hand and to reduce prices, but also to reduce taxes to those who have suffered the most damages due to the crisis, and these are the caterers. At a time of crisis, we must be solid, especially us politicians who represent citizens, especially those who are most affected by this crisis and who have lost their jobs or gone to a minimum. We therefore propose that for the next three months, parliamentary representatives and other state officials, other than those on the first line of defence against the virus, work for a minimumer to solidarity with a number of citizens who will be affected by this crisis, and unfortunately more and more in Croatia. 70,000 social assistance users, 240,000 blocked, more than 400,000 citizens living below the poverty threshold of 1,940 kuna, mostly part of the pensioners. In just two weeks of the crisis primarily due to a late government reaction, over 20,000 workers are jobless, another 400,000 fear for losing their jobs. For 5,500 permanent seasons and over that number as well as for more than 100,000 people registered on the stock market, and now they are not receiving any compensation for the simple prospect of employment is almost completely destroyed due to the crisis and they need help. So, it's over a million of the most vulnerable who can't pay the directors soon, can't pay the rent for the apartment, can't pay the loans. It is already clear that this crisis will take, in particular, a recovery from the crisis, so that we insist in the SDP that it is necessary to secure the moratorium on loans for a year, not just three months, and in a way that the interest is calculated in order to ensure on one hand the safety of entrepreneurs to continue their business, but in order to make them the most important thing, to ensure that citizens continue their normal lives without fear and uncertainty. It is necessary at this point to suspend and tighten interest, we have also suggested and is in this set of laws to help the economy and preserve jobs. So I want to say, in the SDP, we will continue to insist on the moratorium, on paying off loans for a year, but we will also insist on our third package of measures to help the citizens we presented the other day, which includes. First, a fee of 4,000 kuna per month in the next three months for unemployed people who were fired because of the root crisis, thanks to a late reaction from the government, a protection supplement of 750 kuna per month for all users of social assistance, etc. The minimum fee guaranteed is 70,000, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for all those who have income below the poverty threshold, so it's between 350 and 400,000 people below the threshold of 1,940 kuna per person for the most part of the pensioners, so these are pensioners with small pensions. We will insist on a fee of half the minimum wage, i.e. $1,625 per month for the unemployed currently on the stock market, who do not receive any remuneration and whose chance of employment has been completely destroyed due to the crisis, we will insist on continuing seasons at a minimum wage of 3,250 kuna per month of them 5,500, simply people have to live on something. Also, we propose to abolish the RTTV subscription precisely for these most affected layers of citizens, as well as a subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna renting the apartment for these mentioned categories, of course for people who are hired. What I would particularly like to put an emphasis on, I would like to stress that our legal proposals to be referred to in the procedure will require a suspension of the performance and an increase in the amount of pay free of charge, as well as the issue of bank cards blocked with a certain spending limit and the abolition of transactions i.e. compensation for transactions in online payments simply so that under the conditions of the crisis there will be no physical contact. We believe that these measures are very concrete, that they are implemented and that they should act quickly to help the most vulnerable groups of citizens, unemployed, pensioners, permanent seasons, social assistance users. I call on the government to consider them and to respect them as she has already complied with some of our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198305	Thank you. Continuing, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198306	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would only briefly comment on the moratorium law on the loans of debtors why it matters. In his statement, the CNB made public, i.e. according to the recommendations of the European Central Bank or the European Banking Supervisory Mechanism in Frankfurt, it said for a year that you have a framework for all business entities and citizens not to go to... claims. In other words, what does that mean? The CNB, or regulator, has already given a year to all business banks how to treat claims in their books, which means that banks already have the opportunity to do so. What does it matter? If this crisis, we all know, and we're aware that it can't end in three months, if the banks start to collect claims after three months, but now we have a liquidity problem, they'll simply suck all the money out of the system. If businesses and citizens come to them after three months, all these amounts, simply when the economy needs to be returned if they are bank priorities they will simply suck all the money out of the system if they have insurance instruments, they can charge much better from the state, they can be charged sooner than the state. And that's why it's important to calm down if we're saving the economic system now, now we're saving the economy of the Republic of Croatia. After three months, banks cannot be a priority over the state and cannot be a priority over other suppliers. And that's why it's important, and all the legal mechanisms have to be very good at controlling the whole process now. And here's why our intensity was to go with this moratorium for a year, only to those who are in liquid problems, only to those citizens who are at a minimum and only to those who are at risk, that they are simply given the opportunity to cope in that particular period of time. But what I'm warning you all the time is that it's simply our biggest fear of liquidity, liquidity or the insolvency of the system, that the system doesn't crack in the 6th month, is that we won't be able to get foreign exchanges about tourism and that simply when the economy starts to turn to make priority to suppliers and to pay bills, and only later will the banks that have the biggest capital and later come to the state that when the economy starts and collects their claims. Here's what I'd like to ask my colleague, Alexic, if that's what we agreed on for the last words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198307	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198308	I thank the SDP first of all for inviting me to propose with them the Moratorium on Loans Act, as this is my area of action since the beginning of the Croatian Parliament of the Bank, credit institutions, debts. I also note that it is very good that certain measures of force are also proposed in this third package, it will be proposed that we already proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia deblocking accounts, bans on enforcement, cards to everyone for free, free Internet banking, all this is important in these moments to enable citizens. The SNAGA party has proposed 16 measures in total, but I would now say something more about these moratories because it is the subject of exposure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has announced as one of the measures of the moratorium on the payment of the loan claim, as announced by the government of the Republic of Croatia, however, the government has not proposed a binding measure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has obviously discussed this with banks because banks have offered moratories to citizens, but these moratories include the calculation of interest, and these interest rates reach the day the moratorium ceases to operate and then they are deployed to wars or whatever bank it intends to negotiate with its debtors. It's not a moratorium. Such a moratorium of banks approve consumers, businesses, anyone and in a normal situation, therefore it is not a moratorium that must be made possible in the current crisis situation. In the current crisis situation, a moratorium must be allowed to collect claims from loans without interest and without any other charges being charged. If the moratorium lasts a year, and it should take a year, because the crisis will not stop the day the virus stops working, but the crisis will continue, because we will all be in the most citizens' problems, businesses less because they will start working, which is why the measure needs to be extended for a year. And it is easy to reduce the measure in the meantime if there is a better situation between citizens and businesses. Croatian banks can handle this measure without a problem. Croatian banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is excess liquidity. What does that mean? This means that they have 34 billion kunas of their own money that they can do whatever they want to do because they are not obliged to account for that money to anyone. And these 10 billion I said now seem to have fired the CNB in the last tranche another number of billions, so their liquidity is even greater than, that excess liquidity is even more than 34 billion kuna. Therefore, the banks must wait for the payment, and in addition the banks are obliged to the Croatian citizens who have robbed for the course of the franc, for the payment of interest that was illegal for a total of 20 billion kuna, hence those banks that are due to all of us, and perhaps for those of you who are here with me now, perhaps some of you banks owe us, and the banks they owe us should not now be charged in the annuity crisis. What's still missing, and what we haven't covered by the law is the licking, so the licking should be covered by the moratorium, it's primarily important for those companies that deal with transport, so they've got to get to licking buses, some other means of transport or the means of working in agriculture, so it's not working for them now, they need to be given a lysing moratorium because they don't fit at this time. So there are a series of measures still missing, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider this bill that we have put into the SDP procedure and I as Parliament's representative of the SNAGA party. I hope you will also consider this new package of measures mentioned by my colleague Bernardic, about cards, about unblocking citizens, about breaking up accounts, about free Internet banking. I don't think there's gonna be a problem with that, the government hasn't done it yet, but I don't think the government will have a problem with that, and that if the government doesn't even accept this proposal, they're going to prepare their proposal the way the government thinks it's best and they're going to put it in the process within about 7 to 10 days. Here's thank you for listening very carefully to what I've put forward and I hope you'll accept all of it in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198309	Thank you to Reverend Goran Aleksic. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinovic has a request for the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198310	... in accordance with Article. 248. The Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work seek a five-minute break in front of the club Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to warn the citizens and here present representatives of the complexity, the additional complexity of this economic situation in Croatia for which this second round of measures will not be sufficient today. In that sense, and thus I want to change Croatia constructively to this proposal for a package of measures that is now being discussed, I would like to draw particular attention to the second pension pillar. I'm looking for and I suggest, respected citizens, that they all be deposited in another pension column frozen during the crisis. Why? Because every month, on average, about 500 million kuna is paid into the second pension column, which is about 6 billion kuna a year. Now imagine how much it would mean, respected citizens, 500 million kunas every month during the crisis that you can get that money that's missing from the state, that you can pay minimum workers who have lost their jobs, social cases, those who are seasons that no one sees or asks what they're doing somewhere in between. Therefore, I think it is very important and we take advantage of this situation, we are ready, we have excellent economic experts in the party to change Croatia, we use this crisis to start reforming the second pension pillar, to transform it, to give people freedom to transfer their money or to the first pension column where they will guarantee the state or to the third liberal so that they can be rich or lost, but the time is so. If we do this, we will drastically reduce public debt, repair public finances and contribute to saving the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198311	Thank you. I'll have a break by 14.50. THE PURPOSE
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198312	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.50 HOURS]] So we have three replicas, we have two replicas at the exhibition of our colleagues Bernardic, we have one replica on the presentation of our fellow Lalovec. First fellow Maras at the fair of fellow Bernardic. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you explained a whole series of laws that I don't think it's a good thing we didn't discuss before the vote today, because some proposals are certainly still very current and we just need to apply them. One such proposal is also the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act where we predicted that one parent should be allowed to stay with his child if both parents work because we know that school doesn't work, that our children are home. We must thank parents who at this time are making a great effort to make up for this situation that is with their children, teachers who send tasks parents must work because they simply have to gain knowledge. And it would be much easier if the state would allow one parent to be at home with his child and do what is necessary. Here's what I want you to further comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198314	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198315	Dear colleague Maras. Maybe that's why you said that we don't actually have the government's opinion today because if they asked anyone responsible from the health care system of any epidemiologist, you'd say that for the possibility of spreading the infection isn't as good as our thousands of citizens do, going to work with children because they don't have anywhere to leave them. They're going with little boys, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia it hasn't been recorded yet, but we've seen that young people and children can be infected around the world and unfortunately the coronarys of the virus are dying. Not to mention when you bring a child to work, that virus can spread faster. So I can't believe that in a month there's no understanding, no sense, no common sense when it comes to treating parents who should stay home with their children for up to 12 years to prevent and spread the infection, but to make their lives much more pleasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198316	Thank you. The next replica of a colleague of the coat of arms on a colleague of Bernardic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Maras spoke of one important measure, and I would single out one other which seems to me to be extremely important for Croatian citizens, which is a matter of moratorium on loan payments. What the government of the Republic of Croatia has agreed with Croatian business banks and what business banks are giving based on their decision is all but a moratorium. It is a delay, a delay that citizens and citizens will pay dearly because during the duration of that delay they will be charged interest on the entire principal of the loan. So, in this way, the banks will actually cost 6 months of delays to Croatian citizens and make extra money in this way. That is why I believe that this may be the most important measure of all that we have proposed, and I absolutely advocate its adoption and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198318	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198319	First of all, thank you, fellow coat of arms, for that observation. That's what we're going to insist on, it's inadmissible that at this difficult moment the banks are reaching for additional profits in those who are unhappy with this crisis, which are the most endangered. And it is unacceptable for the government to calmly observe that additional interest is being charged on loans that people can no longer pay, especially those 20,000 people who are out of work thanks to the late government reaction or those 400,000 who fear that they will lose their jobs because simply those companies where they work today are closed. And that's why it's necessary, and that's why we're going to insist on making a moratorium on loans for the citizens for a year, but in a way that doesn't account for any extra interest because it's absolutely certain that this crisis is going to last and that we're going to need some more time to get out of this crisis. That's why we've been looking for a year, not any less prolongation periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198320	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask a colleague of Lalovec and a colleague of Maras you have a replica on a colleague of Lalovec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198321	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, I'd like to comment on the situation regarding the delay and moratorium on the loans. At this point, we have a situation that is not regulated and defined, so some banks haven't charged loans by this date until they see that citizens are applying for them to process and examine it in some way who would have the right and who wouldn't have the right. But I think and I think it would be normal for the state to regulate the system and know exactly what situation citizens are entitled to the moratorium for a year and on the other hand to protect them from the uncertainty of the next months and the next year. Because we know all seasons will be zero, over 300,000 people will be out of a job very soon, 300,000 took advantage of the possibility of being on the minimal offered by the government, the state has to do it urgently, so we don't have time to wait because the banks already recognized certain problems I think the state should too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198322	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198323	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, for asking. That's why the SDP also proposes a moratorium for a year, precisely because this won't be over in three months, only at 6 and 7 months we'll see the state of unemployment in society, we'll see that a number of companies that will only then open their doors at 6 and 7 months start from zero, let's not forget that they start from scratch that these three months of moratorium mean nothing to them. These companies will all take more than a year to recover their pre-crisis traffic. And because of this, when these companies start from zero, they will likely have minimally certain revenues, no tourism, no economic activity, and therefore it is important that in the 6th, 7th and 8th months when economic activity is due to return, not all banks will be frozen to purchase all of the liquidity from the system and thus will still cause economic recession and therefore we expect a very fast liquidity fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198324	Thank you. Now the government's representatives will give an additional explanation in a united call it a 15-minute debate with you being able to replicate each and every one of them, they will change. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198325	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In addition, to the set of legal regulations as well as the conclusions proposed in this agenda, a total of 10, what was introduced and said in view of the government's obligation to give its position and opinion, which for obvious reasons is the speed of action, given that these proposals are also by emergency procedure, here I use the opportunity to present at least in this section as regards the Ministry of Finance, so colleagues in their section. I would just like to begin by thanking my colleagues from the SDP and everyone who voted today for these legal regulations adopted by this House of Commons, proposed by the Government in order to mitigate the effects of the coronary epidemic of the virus. So far, we have had two packages of legislation in March and now in this month, totaling 32 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 18 decisions and 3 conclusions are all aimed at protecting the health of citizens, and, of course, preserving jobs and preserving the liquidity of businesses so that the economy can survive at all. In this regard, because of sustainability and the state budget itself, they would point out that in this way and in this way these measures so far have been developed by the Government in terms of citizenship, and solidarity and synchronisation in the work of all components of society is more than necessary and important to emerge from this crisis as little as possible and that the economy and society can function as a whole. As regards the legal rules that came from the Ministry's domain, there were five, the General Tax Law as a roof regulation that regulates the relationship between the tax authority and the taxpayer through whose... we went to regulate all these provisions concerning the suspension of payments to ultimately write down claims all under the tax code through the General Tax Code. This is what we wanted to shorten the procedures and go line-by-line in that part of taxation, all of the norms went through the General Tax Law, and now, after today's vote of law, of course, will be accessed and drawn up by the regulations themselves, which will set the deadlines where they are needed in terms of moving deadlines, as is, for example, allowed through the amendment of the Accounting Act, but in this section through the Regulation they will be allowed to be now 30.6. or some other date due to this operationality daily because the situation is changing, they can be freely said from day to day. So it's very important to know that as we know we have the main factor or factor in this whole situation completely unknown, it's the length of the duration of this crisis, and with its length and impact on the economy. Therefore, this dosing of measures that the state budget can take or will have to pass through some other types of funding must be such that it is sustainable, that it generally exists as a state budget. As regards these provisions of some of these proposals, I would just like to mention, for example, the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act where an untaxable reward for risk-related risks to elemental disasters is proposed, I would like to remind you that we already have these provisions in norms as untaxable including health care that was previously untaxable. So I'm really sorry, and I wouldn't want it to turn out that we don't want to meet all these good demands that are being proposed here, but since the regulations that are mutually synchronised are both the Ministry of Finance and the other members of the government. Certain proposals here are somewhat contrary to some of the activities that we have today supported by the government's adoption of these legal proposals. Of course, as far as the third round that the prime minister announced in terms of measures related to citizens is concerned, I believe the next measure, and which you are now pointing out here, and I assume that this will have more to say to the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198326	Thank you. I'm asking the next representative of the government. So on your show we have three replicas, we'll do that later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198327	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. I present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in oral form on the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the amount of support to preserve jobs in activities affected by the Crown virus, the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament not accept this proposal for a conclusion on increasing the amount of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the virus virus submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives' Club. First of all, I must stress that the focus of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to protect health, as well as to preserve all jobs and fight for every job. We stand firm behind Croatian workers, and in this sense there is a measure and all the other measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken. The meeting, held on 2 April 2020, concluded on the second group of measures to help the economy resulting from an outbreak of the coronary virus and the implementation of all these measures provided 65 billion kuna, I repeat 65 billion kuna. And for the support we are talking about, support for job conservation is provided 8.5 billion kuna and according to the current projections that we have, this measure will cover 500,000 workers. In accordance with the policy of preserving jobs, the amount of support to preserve jobs in sectors affected by the coronary virus has been increased from 3,250 kuna, as you know to 4,000 kuna per worker for April and May of this year, and employers using those support will also be freed from the cost of corresponding contributions. Just to remind you, the state is also carrying the burden of paying a contribution of around 1,500 kuna. And what I must especially point out is that on today, therefore, on 7 April, we have received 84,000 requests for about 500,000 workers, and only so far have we paid 600 million kuna. You remember that some day already the employers who applied and whose application or application was valid that one day they sat down 600 million kunas in total for a job-preservation measure or support. What I must also particularly stress and remind is that both employers and workers and trade unions and the entire Croatian public have, to a great extent, praised this measure of support for the preservation of jobs. The level of support is set at 4,000 kuna in order to cover as I have said as many workers as possible, to ensure the necessary material protection, to keep people in employment and to facilitate the business of employers under special circumstances and, of course, to account for available financial opportunities. What I must also point out when we talk about support for job conservation, it also existed in the past crisis that lasted during the SDP, but I must state that at that time the support for the preservation of jobs was consumed in 4 years only 2,008 times. Well, thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198328	Time, please. We have two replicas on your exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198329	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. As for the Ministry of Justice's portfolio, we have already repeated several times that with due attention, given the circumstances in which we are working on several amendments to the current legislative proposals. First of all, the executive procedures at this point have stopped. It is our recommendation to the public notaries to make all the public notes available for deadlines that will run when this situation continues. So our recommendation is that public notebooks make executive solutions, but don't send them to the executives until they pass the circumstances caused by the COVID-19 crisis. Also in the following days, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take new measures to fully halt the executive procedures until the elements of this health threat have passed. As regards the proposal to reduce the tightening interest rate on trade relations and contracts between traders and public rights persons, we believe that, although we appreciate the proposal's intention, it was not only in this particular section that the other relations were taken into account. Also in the non-standard part, it is not explained until the end, which means this feedback and justification of such feedback in view of the situation that has arisen since the day we declared the pandemic, which is 19 March 2020. Considering everything that you have suggested the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also working on this set of legal changes that will come in a package with a resolution of laws relating to the Ministry of Justice. The question of deadlines is also a matter of several laws, with due regard to the specificity of the issue of deadlines at the Ministry of Justice, we have proposed and in a few days everything about deadlines will be available to the public in order not to question the functioning of the judicial system as a whole. I repeat, it is not time for us to speak politically now, professionally with the justice portfolio we will do everything to address the issue of blocked citizens in a few days, the issue of enforcement in a way that will stop until the circumstances that require the situation to be normal in the Croatian state continue in a way that we can work on the new Executive Law, and that we now do in this part of the crisis stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198330	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198331	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives of colleagues and colleagues. Here before I start reading what I'm going to say today given these points that I would just remind everyone present today that today is World Health Organization Day, and we can especially speak with pleasure because we all know very well that one of the founders, and surely the first president of the World Health Organization was ours. Andrija Printer. First, he would refer to the proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I must say that the legal proposal suggests that one of the parents has the right to pay wages during the temporary prevention to work for the care of a child up to 12 years of life for the closure of educational institutions and that is, if the reasons for the closure of a health or safety nature are on the burden of HZZO funds. Since the rights provided under compulsory health insurance rights are directly linked to the use of healthcare in the existence of a disease or medical indication to achieve the same, that issue cannot be regulated by the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and cannot be achieved on the burden of the means of compulsory health insurance because there is no medical indication for the same in the sense of the Health Insurance Act. The second promemory is mine, which speaks of the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the maximum or maximum monthly amount of salary compensation, on the burden of HZZO assets, isolated or self-insulated employees due to the Covida-19 epidemic. This proposal proposes to increase the maximum monthly amount of salary compensation on the burden of HZZO funds to isolated or self-insulated employees due to an outbreak of covids and to the amount of the average salary in the Croatian Republic in January 2020. The proposal is not acceptable without the provision of additional funding from the state budget and therefore we do not agree with the proposal of this law Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198332	Thank you. Please give me just stay here, and we'll go the other way because we have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, followed by his colleague Maras. And I apologize to Anka's colleague, Mr. Taritash. Just stay, so you can answer immediately that we don't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198333	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State and I join in reminding ourselves that today is the World Health Day, especially dedicated to nurses and midwives who make a really big contribution to this fight. What I want to ask you is, are you in charge of ensuring the financial stability of this system in the ministry, because after the end of the crisis, the situation will be even worse, and therefore I appeal that, at the same time with the fight against the crown of the virus, you lead and fight to save the financial stability of the health system when the coronary crisis is over. Also, since we have all received a letter from the Chamber of Health Care Professionals of a special segment of health laboratory activity, to withdraw from the e-consultation of the law currently in the debate on medical biochemical activity because it is not in conformity with all stakeholders and is a discrimination against the employees of the laboratory profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198334	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198335	I would refer to this first part, to this second part, I think we've talked a lot about it, and I think that when this entire epidemic of Corona virus passes, we'll have plenty of time to talk about it in peace. As far as the financial situation is concerned, the fact is that we are now in a special position to provide health care to all those who have suffered from Covidom-19 infection and that this is our priority because it means not only that we have to provide financial resources for the adaptation of our hospital spaces, for the opening of respiratory centres, for the unification of certain functions of intensive care, intensive therapy, the acquisition of apparatus etc., etc., so for now we in one part would say reduced health work on issues of more selective procedures, and to the maximum focus on what cannot wait, and these are clearly medical emergencyes and malignant diseases, in this respect we have maximum orientation. and technical and financial, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198336	Thank you. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198337	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, as I understand from your debate, the government, or the state, has no money to pay to allow parents to stay, at least one of the two employed parents to stay with their children at home. When we estimated what the amount would be for the next period, we came to some billions of kunas if we used that exactly all in the Republic of Croatia in such a situation, which probably wouldn't be the case. But it's amazing to me that for our children, for parents who have to work with them on their home education, who have to take care of them, try to be sure in some way not to expose them to this whole situation under the motto "stay home" the government says there's no money for it. For some other things that cost the same thing, there's money. Now, you explain to me why the government can't find the money to keep each of our parent employees at least one of them, with their children at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198338	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198339	So I can't speak on behalf of the government, I'm not Prime Minister or Prime Minister, but I can say what and repeat what I said today and today this part of the financial compensation is not part of it, not part of which would be the health insurance from which patients who need to finance the health system as a whole are financed. So he just can't get into this law. If the government has money from some other means, I can't say it right now because I'm neither Minister of Finance nor Prime Minister, but I can't get into HZZO health insurance, it's not the same, there's no place for that legal space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198340	A fellow Maras injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198341	Thank you very much. The 238th article was injured, you here Mr. Secretary of State said you couldn't answer because you're neither Prime Minister nor Minister of Finance, and why did you come here to give your opinion on it? Are you just here to convey greetings and messages or represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about this law? You must give us an answer if you are a representative of the government. Why is it not possible to secure these funds in the state budget? It's going to be budget rebalance, plan them, you can't tell us that's not possible. So I'm begging you, Mr. Vice President, they're here. Government representatives have to give us answers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198342	Thank you, so in. So just for a second, so you can't because this isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Maras. [[/Intruder: Can I answer?]] So they give answers within their means, so no injured Rules of Procedure Please don't do this anymore. [[Intruder: Within its resources.]] Third replica of Anka's colleague, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198343	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you are here on behalf of your ministry and on behalf of the Government and we expect answers from you. In my replica, I ask you to read the following fact. So we at the GLAS Club immediately applied for an emergency procedure of the law where those in self-insulation linked to the threat we have from the virus would have a fee different from that prescribed at this point. What exactly is this about? It's about two weeks of self-insulation, and we only gave that up when it started, the fee was 2,100 kuna and it remained. But there's something else, when we looked at that law, that compensation for people who decided to donate an organ to someone, so they give someone their kidney, when they're on sick leave to receive a fee of 4,400 kuna in a month. So I'm interested in your position regarding these self-insulation and organ donation charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198344	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198345	It is difficult to compare the diseases resulting from organ transplants and the issue of organ transplanters with Covida-19 infection. These are two things that in medicine simply cannot be compared because they have neither the same etiology nor the same medical I would say weight. As for financial compensation to people who are in isolation or self-insulation, it is as much as the Government has decided at the moment that they can give, and whether there will be financial resources in the coming period depending on the development of the overall situation with this pandemic that is something we will see in the future, and probably according to that, we will then be different and financially oriented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198346	Thank you. Now we have three replicas of Secretary of State Salapic. The first is a colleague of the coat of arms, you can talk slowly, and you'll make one small intervention. Thank you. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198347	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, I assume you know what I'm going to ask you, and this concerns the situation in the judiciary and the fact that despite the announcements made by the Minister of Justice Mr. Bosnjakovic in the interim building of a meeting in the basement of a historic ININE building 10 days ago, we still don't have a law that would regulate the course of court deadlines in times of crisis. And you and I both know how many problems there are in the Croatian judiciary otherwise, we know that these problems are further highlighted now in the Kovid era, we know that there are courts that are blocked because individuals in these courts have been infected, we know that the earthquake makes it impossible to use a whole series of courts buildings in Zagreb. My question is, when are you going to refer to the procedure a law that will regulate the time-limits in court proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198348	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198349	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, we are in preparation for the deadline law, and we have already repeated it several times. It's not about one law. It's about a set of laws and a very sensitive matter. What I can say responsibly, the justice system in the circumstances in which we are caused by the earthquake, Covidom-19, works so that the rule of law is not compromised at any time. As for the specifics, we are in a few days will be after Easter and with you here in Parliament discussing this. There is nothing that would endanger any citizens of the Republic of Croatia to protect their rights, and also as far as investigative procedures are concerned, the urgency of court proceedings, all courts in the Republic of Croatia are doing their job in such a way that these laws are implemented no matter where the court is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198350	Thank you. The next replica of Anka's colleague Mrak Taritas, followed by counterpart Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198351	Before starting with the replicas, distinguished secretary of state, therefore we are in this area not because of the crown but because of the earthquake that was in Zagreb. The earthquake that was in Zagreb, what we have a chance to see has done a lot of damage in courts that are basically in the lower city where there was damage. I'm curious, of course, when you're here, then you're going to give us answers to what we have a chance to ask you, which is whether it started with the damage recovery, as you've thought, whether or not with the Ministry in charge of the property you're seeing some other locations where the work of the judiciary might take place, because some resolutions will take a very long time, and we think that life can't stop and we hope that this threat will end quickly, so that life will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198352	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198353	Thank you very much. You were the Minister of Construction, and then you know that some demands are complicated. As far as the County Court building in Zagreb is concerned, the reconstruction took place immediately after the earthquake and will eventually become operational. As for replacement properties, we have found several locations that will soon be published by one of them is a building on Harambasic Street that has about 4000 square meters, there will be moved by certain judicial institutions, the Commercial Court, part of the Administrative, etc. What we've been doing certainly from the day of the earthquake to today, we've taken steps to make the entire justice system work soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198354	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198355	Thank you. Dear Secretary Salapic, please answer my very simple question, you have now announced publicly that the government will prepare a stalemate of all tasks. But from what I've come from the media, I've concluded that it's a law relating to monetary performances, but I'm asking you specifically now, does this mean that it's going to be a stalemate of all tasks, means those who go through the FINE and those who the employer takes out from pay and pay the creditor where the pension is, too, part of the pension goes to the believer, will all of this be covered by the stalemate, and will there be a delay in the flow of tight interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198356	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198357	Your Honor, I've said and I repeat three times, we've been working on everything, we've made a recommendation to the public notaries to do a stop since the day the earthquake happened and these results caused by Covidom-19. No executioner has received an executive solution, no action, no execution, no actions. Within a week, we will unblock 240,000 citizens in time of 3 months when they will be able to fully manage their incomes in full amounts. As for the others, if I did not say in advance something that needs to be discussed on professional bodies, I would not want to be hasty to make sure that at this point we stop and help as many Croatian citizens as possible at the risk of this health threat in a way that we will stop as much as possible with the executive procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198358	Thank you. Next we have two replicas to the secretary of state, Mrs. Buric. We have, first is colleagues Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic. A little intervention, so we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198359	Dear Secretary of State, you have proudly pointed out in your presentation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the first step of 3,200 kuna in the second of 4,000 kunas net and around 5,200 gross for more than 80,000 employers and about 500,000 Croatian workers. I wonder if you can give us information on how much of these 500,000 workers before the crisis and before the decision on the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had a salary greater or significantly greater than that 3,200 kuna or 4,000 kuna or whether you can tell us how many of them fell to the minimum because of this government decision and whether these employers will still feel this crisis or not, or whether it will fall on the back of those 500,000 workers. And on the other hand, I have to comment that in your comparison of support from the SDP government I have an impression, I hope I'm wrong, as if you're lucky that this crisis hit Croatia so that you can say that HDZ has given 500,000 support, which is much less than he was giving the SDP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's exactly what I noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198360	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198361	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Giujic, I'm sorry that your feeling is cheating on you, it's very cheating on you. So I'll repeat our focus is health protection and on the other hand protection of all jobs. That is why we have provided an additional 8.5 billion kuna for the support measure to preserve jobs. What I must also tell you is that today we have 84,000 demands for about 500,000 workers, and so far we have paid about 600 million kuna. We're working at five speeds and moving on intensively. I just want to say that in the HZZ which is the implementing body for this measure, officials work in two shifts, so it is really intensive and what is our main intensity and the main goal is to preserve jobs. Also facilitating employers, facilitating workers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198362	Thank you. Next replica of colleague Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198363	Mrs Buric argued in her presentation that the measures of the government of the Republic of Croatia are equally supported by employers, workers and trade unions. It's only partially true. So you've respected almost all the proposals that came from the HUP, but not a single proposal that came from the union. Moreover, an amendment to the Labour Act has been prepared in your ministry to derogate workers' rights. That's fortunately prevented at the GSV session at least for the time being. Can you tell me if you are planning to bring any changes to the Labour Law in due time or if you are planning something else that we have already heard to suit workers, rather than going towards breaking this crisis just over their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198364	Thank you. Here's an answer from the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198365	Thank you very much. So that component, which is unfortunately unpredictable, is the duration of this entire crisis related to the crown, i.e. Covid-19. Our short-term measures and the medium-term measures are presented, before you. What I am extremely pleased about is that a very high consensus has been reached, I will repeat both employers and workers and unions and the overall social community and I believe that in any case it is something that is very important at this time and because of the feelings of our citizens and the sense of security and protection in very, very difficult and challenging times. Anyway, what I also have to tell you is that we've opened absolutely all the questions, we've assumed all the questions and we're considering [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198366	Thank you. And the last set of replicas on Secretary of State Zrinasic. There you go. You don't have a replica anymore. First up, she's a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198367	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have spent a lot of time with us in this crisis, and in your opening statement, you have explained what you have done, what you have done, what you intend to do. We don't normally think in GLAS that the state should always and every time everything is very sharp and everything needs to be regulated and regulated, but when it comes to banks, when it comes to the moratorium on loans, when it comes to the lying houses that colleagues were talking about in the opening presentation, we don't think that it can just work on a deal between the resolution minister and the banks, so that banks decide, we think it should also be defined by law. Don't let it happen to us that behind this crown epidemic and the downfall of the economy, the only one who will benefit from it and come out richer will be the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198368	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198369	Here, thank you very much. I agree with your suggestion in terms of the treatment of all entities in this crisis and the financial sector mentioned. Of course, this one division of all the participants in this situation is very important in terms of balance and tomorrow the continuation of life, as well as our citizens, and economic operators, and ultimately the financial institutions that in their part this is leaning on or these former ones are leaning on them. We have had some further proceedings that financial institutions have launched against the Republic of Croatia for, due to the adoption of certain legal norms that we still have court proceedings outside the Republic of Croatia, and in that sense, the government in the first steps has been better agreed than imperative if it is possible. Of course, this tall home and all together We'll bring certain regulations that are best. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198370	Thank you. Comrade coat of arms, here's another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198371	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, of course, and my question will be focused on the moratorium on loans, you understand why. I got word today by a gentleman with his situation, a loan he took last year, a war of 3,000 kunas a month, a clear principal in this year has paid nothing back. In order to get a six-month stay, so to get a refund of $18,000, the bank will account for an interest of more than 12,000. Do you think that's okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198372	Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198373	Thank you very much. Now you've brought up one case that is probably and life-like, I really can't get into the calculations right now, but the situations that have happened so far, or today, in terms of the crisis triggered by the corona virus, they're not at all comparable, so we're going to agree, and what this crisis is about to take action is to take those measures that were unimaginable until yesterday. So in this sense, what we are discussing today and what will be discussed in the coming days and making appropriate decisions will certainly require some measures that may not have been imagined in the past, and so this question that you are now asking, indeed weighs now what is right, you are a lawyer in the given conduct in terms of the Law on Mandatory Relations and other measures that, in certain exceptional circumstances, are necessary to take, this is something that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198374	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198375	Thank you, Vice President. So, first of all, I would like to say that all state secretaries here represent the government and I can't say that they don't represent the government, if they don't represent the government, they shouldn't have come here, she should have come as Prime Minister and Minister. Why is the suspension of the moratorium on loans of 3 months not sufficient? Because people took credit for example. in tourist activity extended either quality or expanded their accommodation facilities. This season is gone, it is clear to all of us, because the crown must stop not only in Croatia it must stop throughout Europe or around the world for tourists to go at all. Those people already know. What does it mean to them if after three months they have to pay off the loan, and they don't make money because this year they won't make any money. So, come on, let's approach the reasonable problem, reasonablely. So this proposal of ours to be for a year until they start working, until they start working is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198376	Thank you. Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198377	Thank you very much for asking. The measures launched by the Government during March and relating to the Coronal Virus, of course, are seen in terms of other Member States that are economically stronger and more powerful in terms of the construction of measures concerning the state budget. In this part and other measures that are not directly related to the state budget, of course the government has watched other Member States do so since we are EU members. Indeed, it is one graduation and degree of measures, so that the synchronicity and solidarity of all participants is now extremely important and not only as a flossula, and not only as a flossula, but also as an necessity to overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198378	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the proposal, actually, a set of laws. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, so she is a colleague of Grozdana Peric's. Here you go, after the intervention, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198379	Respect for the esteemed vice president, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, first and foremost to the Government, and we must always respect all the good proposals that are possible to always be accepted and incorporated into even better legal proposals. What we cannot accept at this time, which is this set of your laws, the SDP proposal, primarily because, as you know, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, and unfortunately, the earthquake that took place on the 22nd of this month and last month, so the two situations that were in any scenario were actually amazing. When the government agreed on those first March measures, it was only thinking about what would happen and what would be the consequences of the pandemic, and you know very well that when any measure is taken that all facts must then be considered, all the effects that would be and how such a situation would reflect both on the economy and on private lives, and in the first place on the health of the population or the whole nation. Therefore, when such measures are taken, they must be very well thought out. You have to take full parameters as if you're doing a new budget because all of the details you have to take care of. So in that first set, the measure covered what we had previously adopted, and we cannot say that it was very bad at that moment. The second set of measures came after this not even 15 days and today we adopted it and you must admit that there are many factors involved that have helped and calmed the whole situation and the uncertainty that has been caused by these two disasters. In the first part of the fee itself was 3,250 plus contributions, now it is 4,000 plus contributions, and in the meantime you see that there have been changes in that everything, every employer who fired a part of the worker precisely because of this uncertainty that he will be able to continue to work, has been given the opportunity to bring these employees back, and at this point there are 13,600 employees who then exercise the right, so they do not interrupt the employment relationship and return to the system of work and have the right to compensation of 4,000 kuna increased for the contributions that are once again on the burden of the state budget and what is important to say that the weight of these measures is over 8.5 billion kuna. At this point, we know that over 60,000 taxpayers, or entrepreneurs, have requested this measure and that more than 600 million kunas have already been paid. Very soon, so in the month, and only a practical application was made. What you should also say is that in, that citizenship and what you have in certain legal requirements is actually a request for a moratorium and so on. credit obligations are all understood, but at this point what we have brought is that through the amendments to the General Tax Law we have regulated exactly the possibility of these obligations being suspended temporarily, to stop the implementation and for all other public duties, and it is certainly always a question of what, after 3 months or after 6 months. And it's perfectly justified that we all think about it because each one of us has or has or has credit obligations and certainly doesn't care when that obligation arrives. However, let the government do and do these, these two packages that will be adopted within a very short period of time, and a new measure that will allow citizens to be so much more peaceful and that it can function in this way. It's already mentioned today what happens and when it's going to happen. In fact, it's very important how long it's going to take this particular measure that's caused by Covido-19. And what remains secretly to us in the following certainly 7, 8 if not for many years, which is these measures that will need to be done to help citizens rebuild apartments, houses, historical sights, churches, etc. and we will certainly have much help from EU funds. What we are also talking about when we talk about a set of these measures is about paying VAT, I have already mentioned that in the VAT projection for this year there were over 50 we expect revenue 55 and some billion kuna and now after this everything that happens pandemic, there is no tourism, there is no consumption, and besides these elemental disasters, then we can assume how much impact all this will have on the revenue side of the budget that cannot expect so much charge and which will have to think very much about a lot of other sources of funding. We must not forget that it is already in previous measures that it is possible for companies to private up to 7.5 million traffic or over 7.5 with a 20 per cent or more drop in traffic to 50%, that the possibility of partly prolonging, reprogramming, to write off part of the claim and debt, therefore a large part of these measures has already been consumed and I think that the Government has responded in a very good and rapid way about all of this. What you just insisted on, and this secretary of state expected to answer your question, so it really can't happen if something isn't caused by disease, infection, etc. that pay compensation cannot then be compensated from a source of compulsory health insurance, then there are other measures because you know it is illegal. So you can't prejudge something, so you can't be sick, but there was a measure for it, and there's a way that you can pay off on a different basis, and another way that can be helped, and eventually it's accepted and we finally adopted it. So when we look at the total of these measures that are now over 45 billion kuna plus 20 billion that have reached commitments from previous periods, then you see that the set of these measures is over 9.6% of our GDP, which is certainly more than many other European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198380	Thank you, thank you. We're continuing on behalf of the clubs. Next registered counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. A colleague of Zekanovic does not have and in accordance with Article 233 he loses the right to talk about this item of the agenda for, throughout the entire debate. We continue with the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, colleagues of Grmoje and colleagues of Bulj shared the debate. First one's a colleague of the Grmoi. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198381	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we warned with that first package of government measures that these measures would not be enough, we said that we needed to go to the write-off, not to the delays, and the government listened to us. At that time, no amendment to the opposition was accepted. Not because these amendments were bad because it proved later that the government was all what we were saying at the Most but also other colleagues actually accepted, but they weren't accepted just because they came from the ranks of the opposition. Today we have the same situation, the second, second round of the Government package, all the amendments we have given have been rejected and it can be concluded that in this crisis situation the opposition shows unity and constructiveness, and by ruling again shows one party boredom. This is what grieves all over this story, and in particular the sadness that those first to be thought of, to whom the first should be intended package they will come third in a row, in the third round after Easter. Our seniors, our pensioners, our unemployed, our blocked and completed. MOST first thinks of you or think of you first, not as the last, as those on which the measures will be taken after the Easter. We asked the Croatian Parliament to continue the session, to support itself or our proposal because we too have a proposal on a moratorium on loans and performances or a proposal from colleagues from the SDP, but we do not even ask for that. Give you your ruling proposal, give your government colleagues your proposal we will gladly raise your hand to him. Our citizens who are the most endangered in our society deserve a peaceful and peaceful Easter, deserve a resurrection without a cold, a resurrection without fear, a Easter in joy with their families. So much for me, and hopefully here you'll change your mind, there's still time, the president of the assembly can call and tomorrow's session of the assembly, the government can give its measures and we'll be happy to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198382	Please stop the time for a moment, thank you. A little intervention. Thank you, ma'am or miss. Here you go, fellow Bull, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198383	My colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representatives of the government, why am I partly disappointed? Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said so too, but it is noticeable in the general public that the opposition is making constructive proposals, and that the Government simply rejects them, and anything proposed constructively by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the opposition accepts it. These measures that the MOST has also given, and we are now discussing the SDP measures especially about the most endangered, about the postponement of the credit, about the delay of the performance, that's what the first tribal is about, the first measure. These people are the most endangered right now. No one would forgive these people, but it would be delayed if they weren't responsible for this crisis. And what he would point to here, today was a vote on the results of Croatian politics, poor conduct of Croatian agriculture, bad leadership, so I gave the law on the ban on the sale of agricultural land. The government rejected it, both foreign and legal, foreign and legal individuals. It is the government of the Republic of Croatia, the honourable representatives of the government, the citizens, if you are looking, who refused to sell agricultural land, refused my proposal to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. And the agricultural land, is, right now, agriculture has said that the wrong policies we had mainly towards agriculture so that it disappoints me that the opposition is constructive at this point, accepts all the proposals that you government representatives make, and you reject all of ours from the opposition, but these are proposals for the benefit of the citizens. Well, a lot of the suggestions I've made for SDP hasn't voted for them, but this is a good proposal, I'll support it. You would hardly accept any amendment, any proposal from the opposition. Why? Because you're using both the crisis and this health and economic crisis exclusively for the PR, and that's not good, everyone here is equal, we're all at risk. Thus, when we are discussing these laws and speaking now with us at Easter today, he represented the council in this crisis, of course, that they should be much, much more constructive from the position of power. If we're looking for a delay, because now it's SDP law, and MOST suggested it, the MOST Club and this and other colleagues in the opposition don't see any reason why you wouldn't accept it and why the government didn't put that measure into emergency procedure and we would vote again today or come tomorrow. And not now for Easter you leave that space, the greatest Christian holiday I congratulate from this place I wish all happy and blessed Easter, the greatest Christian holiday to all our citizens. For days, it was broken whether markets should be opened, so of course the triba with all the respect measures because it is more likely to be infected by the coronary virus in a closed area trade chain, but foreign products are sold there, and domestic products were mostly sold in the markets. Here I hear the announcement now and it is my pleasure that after a long, long application will open up markets that should not have been closed at all, but with all the criteria of respect that the Tribals would respect as in trade chains, but better to buy Italian pomidores, it is better to buy strawberries than this Spain than Vrgoračka, it is better to buy meaning those products. Here, I would say in the end that I am disappointed that we are not continuing to work while all groups of unemployed, retired, particularly completed and blocked and, of course, all these measures he has proposed in this case suggest opposition to what we are leaving. The government could have made this simple, it could have made a proposal for its additions and we could have settled it in this big week before it meant Big Thursday and Big Friday. In this way we would actually come to a solution and a peaceful Easter. In the end, you would wish all the citizens a happy and blessed Easter, hopefully if there are measures here, you see 151 of us here that on this greatest Christian holiday and Croatian believers will have the possibility under all measures either within the sacral churches, either outside churches, here you in the government or in front of churches or in the courtyards will be allowed at least to share, not all, part of the people, the believers can unfortunately have the opportunity to participate in this greatest Christian meanings on Easter, the greatest Christian holiday and the sacrament. And once again, I wish you all a happy and blessed Easter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198384	Thank you. We are continuing to debate on behalf of the club of MPs, next is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, in front of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Taritash. So five minutes dark, five minutes Taritate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198385	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the Crown Virus or Covida-19, no matter what we call it, has caused major changes in our lives. One of these changes will also be seen on the greatest Christian holiday of Easter that we will certainly not be working in a circle of some broader family because everyone is staying home and I really respect that if you are guarding yourself, guarding someone else and keeping everyone around you and we are taking care of it. We sit here at a distance, we don't shake hands, we take care of each other, and when we talk to someone, we use space. And that's all the coronary virus has changed, but something hasn't changed. It did not change that when it comes to opposition proposals that they will get their place in the Croatian Parliament in the worst time, so now not even the evening term, but after the vote, this package of laws won and did not change that when the opposition gives amendments, that these amendments, no matter how reasonable they may be, how helpful they might even be, that they refuse to explain themselves. I'm just going to refer to me as the favorite amendment that was rejected today by our club, we've given an amendment that is related to office leaders and tourism that, because of the Corona virus or Covida-19, they no longer need to know foreign language. So when the coronary is a virus or a Covida-10, those who run offices, they don't have to know foreign language with tourism. And now we say the amendment of my people so don't do crazy things, it has nothing to do with it, and it's being rejected, and it's quite serious, the secretary of state has explained why it's happening, if you're asking me why, I don't know, but it's been pretty serious. But let's get back to this subject. The first set of measures that was in March, I must admit that I'm always somehow trying to understand, so whether or not I agree with that first set of measures that we can call March I understood. We didn't know what the scales were, no matter what the crown was rolling behind the hills when it came to Europe, someone got a little better, someone got a little worse. It was not a willingness to bring some options, or some variants, because it did not know how long this would take. So I had this first set of measures that way. The second set of measures I called April 1 0, because with the certainty that a second set of measures will come in April which we will call April 2 0, all those who spoke can't go in just a delay you have to write off, you have to define something. We spoke as opposition MPs, they spoke to the businessmen, they all said, and in that second set of measures, some things were heard. And you saw that at the vote that was today and that was 130 of us, I don't remember when we were, the last time we were 130 when there was a set of measures or a little less of those Marchs, it just means that after all, the MPs, no matter how we were perceived, are responsible. We are responsible for what we are saying, we are responsible for certain crisis situations and this responsibility and opposition parliamentary deputies are really ready to take over on their backs and no matter what you're discussing and with some things you disagree with and some things you warn us that now the situation is next, which is that we need to support and support a set of measures, but for tango we need two. Tango doesn't go to one, so no matter how you turn around, but the other one's just like that, he's gone to sleep somewhere, and he's waiting somewhere. That's what I'm saying between, so the opposition suggests something, and on the other hand it's a government that's pretty hard to say that these things can't be accepted, but then at some headquarters conferences that I can really say that it seems to me that it's doing a good job, it's using time to deal with some political inexperiences, which is not good. So, at these moments, the opposition has made clear everything from the government that comes, and we conclude that it is good that it will help the citizen, we will support the citizens, but we also think that the time when the opposition proposes something, so sit down, talk, let's talk. And it's not even a problem that then the government in some package April 2 0, May 1 0 or that took what was there and said here we took and said one sentence is the subject of a common agreement. As long as the crown lasts, it should listen to experts and they somehow predict how it will grow, fall, linearly and everything else. What will be the consequences of the Corone or Covida-19 on the economy that no one, regardless of the experiences they have, can predict. It seems to us that this crisis is to be used for a few things. The first thing to take advantage of is a little look at our laws being written. They're being written unreasonablely, written in a way that we don't want them to be understood by anyone, complicated, complicated in procedures, we tend to complicate where we shouldn't. Maybe one of the situations, or the outcome of this crisis, that we all think about it together a little bit. I will only take one example, of course I live in the City of Zagreb, until the City of Zagreb would care, an example of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the behaviour of the City of Gas. People closed the gas in houses that weren't even damaged by the earthquake because they were well built. The gas station said okay, to let you gas out, you have to come to us, you have to fill in 3 or 4 requirements in the context of the crown only you come to us maybe someone has, so we'll split it up and pay 3,000 kuna and then when you do all that, then we'll make a list of priorities and we'll go and release that gas. My people, if it weren't true, it would be for one of those comedies or soap operas, but that's true. So, the first time I heard it from a guy in the city gas station, I was sitting at home, I thought I heard something wrong, I heard something. So, from this crisis, maybe we could come out smarter because look at the e-citizen working neatly, everything works through emails, let's be something smarter and try to see the regulations and see what we regulate and how we regulate it. Another thing we should be able to get out of this crisis, we should be clearly wondering what kind of economy we want for Croatia, whether we want to hang on to tourism, whether we want to only hang on to imports and certain services, or if we think something else is going on here. Today we voted for the amendments to the Agriculture Act, which in the sense of no one at all is disputed, but in the debate we're the Minister of Resorna was with us, we said something we might need to take well-meaningly, we think the time has come when agriculture is for a serious reset. Something about that farm and the way we work is wrong. This is the moment when we can reset ourselves, we can take the green plan that the EU has made regarding climate change, more climate change after 2 months we no longer mention ourselves, and two months ago our mouths were full of climate change, see what the green threshold for agriculture is, and maybe it's a strategy for the development of Croatia's agriculture with some adjustments. From this set of laws, it is especially important that the law which speaks of a delay is related to loans. No, and that's what I said to the secretary of state, and I repeat, and now for the rest of this pay phone, don't let this crisis that's hit us all, we still don't know what the scales are, the ones that come out unscathed or richer, be banks, like it was in every crisis. Let's try to really take care of our citizens and the problems they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198386	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The last reported debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives was a debate reported by counterpart Tomislav Žagar, in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198387	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear State Secretarys and State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. The HSU Club, independent representatives, New Politics and SNAGA will support this set of laws proposed by the SDP Club because one member of our club participated actively in the preparation of these laws. Why is that? Well, this set of laws, first of all, all those measures that the government, which we voted today, are vertical and horizontally expanding. Vertically in the amount of compensation and assistance to be provided, and horizontally to most of our citizens who are not covered by these measures that we adopted here at HS today. Namely, the secretary of state here when she initially explained why the government rejects these bill proposals, I apologize, that's a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club said two important dates, one date was March 19th when the pandemic was declared and the second date was March 22nd when the earthquake was in Zagreb. Why do I mention these two laws? We can see that this process is extremely turbulent and dynamic and that the government, at least so far, has not shown the right way of planning, planning future activities, but is exclusively used for what is otherwise used when steering or managing, requires some kind of feedback, so on 23rd of the earthquake in Zagreb, the 23rd of March center has made a decision to ban leaving the place of residence. Watch out, places of residence, and then this caused a huge amount of passes that were issued because we have 6756 seats in Croatia. That picture shows how things work out only when they come up, and little is planned in advance. Of course, respecting the fact that it's hard to do things and plan ahead. The second thing that matters, as far as these measures are concerned, was not a great situation before the outbreak in the Republic of Croatia. So, even before the outbreak occurred, 140 thousand people were at the Employment Service, but we must not forget the large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had left the Republic of Croatia before that and hired in other countries. We also see that these citizens are returning to the Republic of Croatia, they have no place to go but to the Employment Service, and since the adoption, since the announcement, since the crisis occurred, we see that a large number of citizens have already ended up at the Employment Office. It is true that these government measures can be re-employed and re-received, this amount provided for in the measures. It is seen here that this is a serious, serious crisis and that what the secretary of state has highlighted, and what is the most important parameter in the whole crisis, which is the time of this crisis, which no one can predict how long it will last. So we have an extremely dynamic and busy period in which entrepreneurs will have to respond to the challenges ahead. That's why I think this set of measures is good, but the government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact, the Ministry of Finance, the minister, will have to respond as soon as possible to what kind of rebalancing is expected of the budget in the future. To that question, I think it's going to be the biggest, the biggest challenge on this issue is going to be. And what is crucial is why these measures should be supported. The government will certainly think of them if it does not support them, because although the announcement of this third set of measures will be directed towards citizens, so that it will not be late, because as I said, citizens who are already at the Employment Service, everyone who, whether earlier, has now gone to the Bureau, all who have had problems serving their obligations, especially loans, there are, of course, students, pensioners who find it difficult today. It's hard for them for a number of reasons, and mostly for the fact that their pensions are small, and then this crisis hit them. For all these citizens, therefore, measures should be taken to facilitate and enable them to live and overcome this difficult situation. When GDP is growing, the biggest benefit is those who are richer, but even when GDP falls, it breaks over the back of the poorest, and therefore these measures are very important. In the last debate there when we had in the INA building I mentioned it, I will mention again, that, not by chance, and the financial sector will not hesitate to come out of this process uncircumcised, and in fact they will try to come out uncircumcised in all ways, and that is what the credit rating agency which has reduced Croatia by one degree. Their assessment that GDP would fall by 5%, this could mean according to that rough, budget that the unemployment rate would be 2.5% at least and that is 50,000 people without jobs and these are the things that we will have to answer because it is about citizens who will be out of work, employers of course who will have to close their trades or their businesses and because of these things we need to think about measures as soon as possible and bring them forward. That's why I think this set of measures is good, we'll support them at the club, and I'm telling the government to think hard if he doesn't want to accept the proposals coming from the opposition, and we see that this is the case, so let the public, as soon as possible, have a set of measures that will allow citizens to overcome this crisis and live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198388	Thank you, too. We ended the discussion on behalf of the clubs. We're continuing an individual debate. I'd like to ask Miss for a little intervention, and then a colleague of mine, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198389	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the adoption of this second package, I believe that most of these legal proposals on behalf of the SDP Club will be implemented through the regulation and the former provisions of certain laws. Likewise, certain legislative proposals are not intended to say so to the address to which they might be said, but what I think is also why I came forward for an individual debate and wanted to share with you, and also to point out one problem that first and foremost my colleague Lalovac and I have been talking about in this assembly for a long time, which is a liquidity problem. And this directly binds to this law on credit forgiveness because when we talk about liquidity, then citizens are also liquid and liquid. So, did this legal proposal cover all the obligations that Croatian citizens have. Not only do Croatian citizens have only loans, they also have a commitment to leasing societies and a commitment to card houses, a commitment to insurance companies, a commitment to teleopers and a number of other obligations. Therefore, this law, and I think that the Government is thinking about it, must be complete and must cover all aspects of the obligations that our citizens have. Also, colleagues and colleagues should not forget that over the past few years Croatian entrepreneurs from craftsmen have had an extremely high investment cycle, investing money in economic activities. And many of them have found themselves in this package of measures that the government has proposed, which is to pay salaries and not have to pay pension and health for the simple reason, whether because of the provisions of the headquarters, whether because of this or that reason they simply stopped doing business. And we're talking about a moratorium on loans, so we just have to put all of them in those packages. And that's why the law deserves far wider scope, deserves far more attention for reasons, if we don't approach it that way she thinks we're going to make a lot of trouble. The other thing, from a month ago and a few days ago when there was a law on insurance in the assembly I repeat about the responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. To be honest, I expected that both business banks and Leasing companies and insurance companies would come out with some package of their own when this crisis started with one single goal to protect those who bring them profits. Because they, if those who took up credit with them who made insurance policies or who took something to Leasing if they can't pay them first, put them in trouble. So they should be in the interest of finding that first package. And I think the government is talking in that direction. We have heard that the CNB has already brought about certain changes that they can react to, and if in such a way we could approach this problem which I believe is crucial to the state's funding problem in the coming months, then the law would be comprehensive. And it's a good idea for a colleague from the SDP Club to propose it as a law, but this bill of yours solves only one small segment, just one small segment. Because what difference does it make whether you have to pay the loan or whether you need a war lying to society or whether you need to pay the war to the insurance company, no. It's your obligation that if, and what I think is still important at this point, if you work normally, you do business, you get paid, then this measure doesn't have to apply to you. This measure should apply to those who do not function normally, who do not receive salaries and ultimately we as a social state must take care of our citizens. And I'm saying I think the government will come out with a package that will certainly take care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, without intending to tell you, but colleagues and colleagues you've only dealt with this law one little segment, and that's why I wanted to share this debate with you because I think Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198390	We have one replica, please you can stay. He's a friend of Sagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198391	Dear fellow Shuker, I agree with you, it's true it would be very good for the banks to decide to negotiate with their clients to see which way it goes. However, this so you know from experience doesn't work, it just doesn't work, it's about positions of power, banks are extremely powerful compared to their clients, especially citizens. And actually this, as far as I understand it, is going towards the weakest, the most vulnerable, because with them banks are hardly going to negotiate. It is therefore necessary to define legal frameworks to create moratories on commitments, but not in such a way as to further accumulate interest later, but to simply buy that time for these people, so that while they overcome the crisis, they can continue to serve their obligations. Of course you're right when you talk about other obligations, like, according to the Leasing societies and everyone else, but I think it's from the position that it's hard to expect that banks will work that way. They still need to be legally forced to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198392	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198393	Comrade Sagar, that you listened carefully to what they said, I said that legally, if we need to, we need to solve everything. And the normal thing is that we have to think about those who are the most vulnerable, that we have to react here, but I repeat, everyone in their segment is important. And I guess the banks burned after that big crisis 10 years ago and how great they are. The placements had to be converted into non-refundable claims and that they would think and think about how to save those who ultimately bring them profits and repay loans and pay interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198394	Thank you. The next debate is a debate from fellow Pernar. And a little intervention from my colleague Pernar. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198395	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The solutions this government has for the current crisis are not adequate and will not solve it, and I will explain why. The main problem is with loans, by putting on a moratorium, the cause of the problem is not solved. The problem is that these loans will ultimately need to be paid back and that many people living on tourism during the summer months are expensive money to pay off the loan for the rest of the year. However, in this case, what will happen? Moratorium will last, for example. For the next few months, they'll run out of money from the season, it's just a season, for example. failed, which is very likely to happen and suddenly end this extraordinary state of Beroshevo. Yeah, this isn't gonna last forever. And what happens when it goes away? And then the banks will say now, look, there's no state of emergency, the loans have to go back, and the revenues from this summer are gone. Where are these people gonna get your loans back from? They've got nowhere to go. Another problem, all the time this moratorium, interest is accounted for. So are you aware of what that means? Where are people gonna get those interest back from? The legislator doesn't care. Here's an identical example of the work. The government says we're introducing a moratorium to execution. And what does that mean in practice? Well, in practice, it means that the same scheme goes on the same way. It's not going to stop now, it's just going to bring down that waterfall, as soon as these measures are cut off, and the reason for this whole executive hell is that the performances are actually given to public notebooks, which they can account for whatever fees and what ultimately, you have enormous costs of the execution, so people don't necessarily kill the debt for water of 200 kuna, but they get killed by the costs of the execution. They're getting killed by the fee that FINA's taking. FINA is taking an enormous fee. Did the government solve that question? No, I don't. The government neither solves the issue of interest, or there are no interest moratories, nor does it think about what will be left of income with people this summer, and when the moratorium passes, it will have to. Yes, when the moratorium passes and this state of emergency passes, it will have to continue to repay the loan, it has nowhere to go. The government doesn't care about that. This solution that the government has, you know what these solutions are? These are short-term solutions. Maybe the government has a solution to the election of parliamentarys at 9:00. I mean, what's it gonna be in 10, 11, 12, 1, 2, 3. Mesa, 5 months. Next year? And the government doesn't think about it. This is one crazy way, this policy has no vision whatsoever. Also, there's one more thing I want to say. If the population is not divided into young and old, both healthy and sick, and it will go with a general quarantine story that is being imposed on us at all times, it will take a very long time for a critical number of people in the population to get infected and get over the crown. Yeah, that's the problem. It's going to take a very long time, instead of being, because young people, they have no mortality at all, 0.1%. Instead of allowing young people to get over, get immunity, a critical part of the population to have resistance to this virus and end with quarantine measures, quarantine measures will be delayed indefinitely. And you know what kind of solution they're going to offer? Then he'll offer as a solution, what? The vaccine. And then they'll tell my people, we have to protect the weaker. But you all need to be vaccinated. And what about those who refuse to vaccinate? He'll be in trouble again. I don't see where this policy leads, I can't understand people who support the general instead of selective quarantine. I don't know how many more months they're planning on keeping the whole people in this agony because people are mentally firing and they can't take this condition anymore. But nobody cares about that, and half the country's on the minimal, which is what those who are unemployed and who were planning to do, seasons, have nothing to live on, so nobody cares. The state doesn't regulate it at all, I asked Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic, what about those who don't have a fee from the Stock Exchange? What do they live on now that they can't find a job? And Plenkovic says, Alardovic will find a solution. I don't see him yet. When will this solution come? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198396	Thank you, colleague Pernar. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Sasa Djujic, please a little intervention, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues from the SDP. So here's how much the government is interested in our measures and our proposals, this shows that there aren't any MPs in the hall right now except for the SDPs. So, they're full of the mouth of the community and all that... Now you're in, now you're in [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you're in. ... [[Intruder: Mr. Pernar.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198398	Mr. Pernar, Mr. Pernar Mr. Djujic, Mr. Pernar. [[You're in from the outside now.]] Mr. Pernar Mr. Pernar. ... [[Intruder: Yes.]] Mr. Pernar, a reminder [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm not gonna throw him out, but I'm giving him a warning, this behavior is not appropriate. [[Don't kick him out because then he'll say you threw him out on purpose so I can say there's no one but us.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198399	Here, I welcome fellow Pernar who just returned and fellow Shucker who has now entered, thank you very much. So what I'm saying is, this is already the 3rd package of measures SDP is proposing. 3. package, so after the first two of which none of them were adopted, none of them were accepted. So we propose certain solutions and certain measures that the Government then partially accepts after a while. The same thing is with this package. So here and just now, my colleague Schucker said in his debate that we're covering a small part, a small segment of the problem when we're talking about a moratorium on loans, that we haven't fully worked it out and worked it out, let's just say that the government is going to cover that part in its future action, and it's going to work it out together. But he didn't tell his colleague Shuker that our proposals, for example, were not working. He didn't say, because he knows that he's part part of it, part of it's good. I listened well, I heard it all right. Well, what's the problem, you know what my colleague Shucker is? We are proposing these packages because the ruling HDZ has not included the opposition since the first day of the conversation. You didn't turn it on. You can nod all you want. You're not. You are sitting alone with yourself and this second package of government measures that was now, which was delayed in part you presented to your coalition partners, and you did not find it appropriate to invite opposition representatives to this conversation, you did not. Because you don't need us, because you don't care what we have to say, and that shows this hall here today. Empty, just you fellow Shucker, here you are, and colleague Pernar. And my colleague Pernar. ... So when I don't have anyone, how am I supposed to, what am I gonna mention about Sanader when he's not here? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What am I going to say? Who? I mean, what am I going to say, here, a colleague I don't know, who? Who? You tell me, fellow Shuker, when you're alone. There's no one here. Nobody cares. The SDP is a colleague here, is, is, we've had enough. So, look, we suggest, you don't listen, you don't care. Another thing again, so it's not the devil that none of our proposals are right. We are in this package of measures, I am now not going to enter into each individual, but colleagues Bernardic and Lalovac said in the introduction, this is the third package that includes citizens, citizens who are also the most socially endangered of whom the government has not considered at the moment. I'm not saying he won't think in his third package. But I don't understand why the opposition isn't involved. You say, "Here's a good suggestion, and you didn't even bother to fix it." So today we wouldn't be discussing this or counting here if Prime Minister Plenkovic's first day had called all the presidents of the opposition parliamentary parties and said, let's hear, let's all heads together, who has any suggestions. So maybe one part of our measures would be included already in the government's package and instead, and all the time you're talking here, make suggestions, thank you, but that's not enough. It's not good, but we're going alone. We only represent coalition partners. Gentlemen, this concerns the entire country, both left and right and all citizens, not just HDZ and its coalition partners. And for that, here we appeal to you, let us in, so we can't wait until you remember something, until you remember citizens with credits. Well, we had to propose a law. We don't have another model. Our representatives didn't sit with the government's representatives at the meeting so they could make some kind of suggestion there, so here you are, fellow Shuker, you complete it and you say, and you made a good proposal. Here, there's only the ones with the loans, there's no lying, there's no insurance houses, there's no such thing as that, so we could do a whole proposal together. And this is how we have to make suggestions when you don't listen to us, you don't want to hear us. You're saying it's not time for politicizing, and it's yesterday as a charger. Plenkovic, Sanader, Bozinovic, in his uniform on the fifth, 5th day in a row, calls counterpart Bernardic and SDP. That's, what's that? That's not politicizing? You've got suggestions, you've got suggestions, we'll respect everything, you don't respect anything today. You haven't accepted any of our amendments today. So what exactly are all our suggestions stupid? Well, I didn't realize it from your discussions that we're proposing nonsense or stupidity, but even praise it, but look, what, we're enough for ourselves. That's not good. We're not at war, but we're not in any ordinary condition. And not to mention, this session procedure, first in that building of INA over there, and today here and limiting replicas and speeches, I hope that from the 15th time we get back to our building things will go back to normal. I don't have any more time, but I expect we'll get back to normal and start listening to us as an opposition. Because, look, this situation will pass, I hope as soon as possible. Maybe in a month, maybe in two. Maybe in 3 and then they'll [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to file accounts. [[Intruder: Stay here.]] So it won't be binco Support, we can all the time... [[We have 3 replicas.]] Okay, thank you, here, just to finish the thought. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198400	Thank you. A colleague of Hajdukovic's. Here's the first replica, the second one's a colleague of Shucker's, then a colleague of Jagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198401	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djujic, you're talking about a call for community, this lack of respect for the opposition, so I'd just like to go over there and say that HDZ calls for consensus and for community only when it suits them. And you know how they experience that unity and consensus? "Here you can back us up." And we are not criticizing or criticizing, nor criticizing, but making concrete suggestions. Yeah, maybe some of our proposals aren't perfect, but that's why, in the debate, we should all come up with the best proposals to protect our citizens. And.../incomprehensible... when we do that to HDZ, they reject it. And therefore, I fear that these measures will eventually turn out to be flawed in a lot of things, that they will change many times, that they will contribute to the uncertainty of the labour market and the market in general in the economy and we will actually produce exactly the counterproductive effect of what we wanted, which is to protect citizens, workers, but also entrepreneurs and economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198402	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198403	Comrade Hajdukovic, of course, that all our measures are not perfect, such as the Government's all measures. But two heads are smarter than one, and that's what we've been trying to do all along to deal with this crisis, not to have the HDZ running its story. Well, look, they dropped the Parliament, that debate in the INA about that package last time was nothing, what pro-forma, out there at the President of the Parliament saying you have the right to 2 replicas per club. So they don't even want to listen to us. They won't listen to us today. So it's not going anywhere. So, we should, this is not a HDZ crisis and its coalition partners, but all of Croatia's citizens, and we must have the opportunity to talk together and all the best, every party, every political option that has in its ranks to make it easier for the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198404	Thank you. Next replica, fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198405	Thank you very much. Well, it's not good to say things that aren't right. I'll use the softest expression, if my colleague Bauk were here, he could confirm to you that the Prime Minister has summoned all these leaders and opposition parties and clubs and has exposed them to measures to discuss. So much for that, that's the facts. Secondly, I think my personal debate today was about discussing the subject. Third thing, colleague Djujic, we've known each other for a long time. I was expecting, since I'm the only MP from the opposition here, that you're going to try to put in some arguments to convince me that something is not contained in the existing laws, that I did something wrong. You've been talking all along about how someone like this, how you're somebody like that. Okay, that's what you said, that's what your colleagues will say, but explain why your laws are good, I even said that one law and missed a target because those funds can't pay off what they're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198406	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198407	And fellow Shuker, I expected you to convince us why our laws are not good and that the government did better than us and that we should give up. But on the contrary, you said that one segment did well in this moratorium law on loans, so what do I have to explain to you that this is a good move? Well, you know it better than I do, you said it yourself. In fact, you've spread the story that we haven't covered the Leasing Houses, that we haven't included insurance companies, so here's what we talked about before, we could have given one quality whole law together. And when you said we didn't sit down, that we didn't, that, uh, Comrade Bauk, here he came now, that the Prime Minister invited them to that first package of measures that the entrepreneurs and all welcomed to the knife together. This last vote we voted here today at noon you presented to coalition partners on Thursday and on Friday came to debate after a hasty procedure in HS, i.e. in the basement of the INA on 2 representatives per club. And we couldn't make a contribution, no one listened to us, no amendment was adopted, today Here, who's listening to us? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Who are we talking to?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198408	Thank you. Last replica, colleague Sagar Comrade Sagar, here you go. [[Intruder: My emotions are working.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198409	Dear colleague Djujic. So, you said it right. The situation is quite complex, and when you say that we're going back to normal, then you should keep in mind that this return will be extremely difficult. It is clear that there will be a danger to the health of citizens and that at that moment citizens will start living normally. But back to those positions that weren't good before this crisis, I'm talking about economic situations where citizens were and the economy is going to be difficult to achieve, let alone what we planned before this crisis in terms of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. So it's very important that the government listens to you now, that it really listens to all the good advice because at this point we're just responding to what's happening right now. We are not thinking about what will happen in the future, and in these measures there are many proposals that will affect the future, and so we need to think about what will be in the future because we already need to know what it is, what kind of rebalancing the government will have to propose soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198410	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198411	My debate was like this because five minutes is really little to explain and to explain each of these measures. I think some of them are making their own argument. But why was I talking about this debate? That's because I'm afraid, and I see it, that the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic don't care what we think or care about. There's one proof today. So today he's talking about this law on tracking. He talks, he says, well, you gave all the data to Facebook and Google, so why don't you give it to HDZ? Why don't you give us, too, even so they follow you, so let's follow you. And then the journalists tell them, but it wasn't adopted in the Parliament, today it's, it's a decision to go to another reading, then he says, and well, it's not today, it's going to be adopted next week. So here's how HDZ sees us as the most representative or legislative body in the country. And for that reason I appeal once again to HDZ and to the government, please include representatives of the opposition, listen to us, tell us, this is stupid, this is smart, but we are going together to look for solutions for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198412	Thank you. Next individual debate... The next individual debate is a debate by colleagues from Peja Grbina, here are some interventions. Here you go, buddy Grbin, here you go, thank you. Careful fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198413	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will concentrate on two things that matter to me personally, and I also believe that they are important to a large number of Croatian citizens, and one especially to people from the area I come from, from Istria and the entire Adriatic coast. The first thing is, of course, a moratorium on loans. Dear fellow Shuker, saying just before me, said the law proposed by the moratorium on loans was missing. My answer is, okay, but unlike the government's proposal, at least he exists. The government has not proposed such a missing proposal, the government has proposed nothing. The government has only left it to banks and bankers that, on the basis of their own decision, their own goodwill, their own profit assessment, solve the problem of postponing the loan with their debtors. And what does it look like in practice? A few people came to me, for example, one lady has a loan, she's been paying him off for a while, 3,000 kuna, exactly 2700 kn per month. She will have to pay 6,000 kuna additional interest for the six-month delay, 6,000 kuna. 1,000 kunas have calculated the monthly bank's interest. A gentleman contacted me last year who took a loan, also at war about 3,000 kuna per month, but because he took the loan last year at this point mostly pays interest, and the principal will come in line for some better days. He will postpone by 18,000 kuna for the six months he would have paid during that period of 6 months, so to get a delay in the payment of 18,000 kuna which he will definitely have to pay, to him, the interest for those 6 months exceeds the amount of 12,000 kuna. 12,000 kuna additional interest will be paid to the bank on his loan. And you know what the worst part of it still has to be solemnized by the credit contract annex, and as an amount of course, it will account for the full amount of credit, which means that it will still have 1,500 – 2,000 kuna. So he's going to be spending six months on 15 thousand kunas. For a delay in payment of 18,000 kuna, they will pay 15,000 kuna. With all due respect, it's neither moral nor fair, nor useful. The delay, without the simultaneous delay of payment of interest or the release of interest payments, is not intended. It is only temporary assistance to citizens and citizens who will pay you the same citizens and citizens extremely expensive one day when they start returning credit. And what else is going to happen? Given the duration of only 6 months, and it is evident that many will not return to the position of paying off the loan even longer after that since it only lasts 6 months it does not achieve real effects. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, if you want to help Croatian citizens and citizens, Croatian society and the Croatian economy you do not have to accept the SDP proposal, I support what my colleague Schuker said, make it comprehensive, refer it to the procedure, I will first, I will raise my hand to him first, but you must, you must suspend the course of interest during the delay, otherwise there is no purpose. The other problem I want to talk about is the renter's problem. Household owners do not pay income tax according to actual income, but pay it according to the flat-rate rate determined according to the number of bearings in the frameworks of the prescribed law. Last year we raised the amount of sheets, we made it possible for local self-government units to go up to 1,500 kuna instead of a maximum of 300 kuna earlier, I'm talking about income tax rate, to make it quite clear. So we increased the amount multiplely and it was introduced to pay for additional beds, which was not previously the case. At present, as far as I'm aware, most or almost all of the shoppers have been delayed. However, it is quite clear, it is clear that income from the tourist season in these three months, so 4, 5 and 6, and probably not even afterwards. The delay is fine for now, but please, before the period on which the delay is given, bring a measure of the write-off of the flat-rate income tax from the tenant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198414	Thank you. Stay here please, you have one replica. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198415	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, I had to intervene because my colleague Peja is a lawyer, and I wouldn't want to give him a lecture, but when you have a loan, then you get a payment plan. In the payment plan you have a monthly war that contains war and contains interest and a bank if you do not need to pay the principal, but you have to pay the corresponding part of the interest and that is what we all need to talk about why I said it wasn't just loans to Croatian citizens and businessmen that it has full, but such a figure when you bring it out it's totally incorrect because you're not talking about the same thing, it's not interest on funds that haven't been paid for 3 months. I repeat, when you raise a loan, when you enter a Leasing relationship or anything else you get a payment plan and it is clearly based on the law you know what it contains. So this information of yours is not correct, you got it wrong, and you unfortunately misread it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198416	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My esteemed colleague Shuker didn't get it from me, it was obtained by citizens from banks asking for a postponement of the loan. It was given to the citizens of the banks, the citizens got this bill, and the banks want to charge them for it. And by the way, I know very well that there's interest on the capital. If the loan payment started last year, then you and I know very well that the principal remained intact. And that six months of paying interest on that principal will be very difficult for whoever's taking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198418	Stay still here was still a replica of a fellow Laloveca.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198419	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms I see you mentioned the tenants, but certainly what should be noted is that the government has unfortunately not thought about those who are in the lease of business premises, which are now closed business spaces and when there is no, means the contract between the tenant and the tenant is now zero kuna. However, there is no clear answer from the tax administration or the Government whether they will be charged at market value for this lease, so all these people who rent business premises will receive a fee for either VAT or income tax. So here you're talking about one category, but I think this category, too, means that they're renting business premises so that in 3 or 6 months, VAT or income taxes don't come out, especially when the market doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198420	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198421	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague, but first of all, he would direct his own representatives to the government. Last week I spoke about the problem of renting a business space and there are two problems. The first is the one you addressed, which is the fact that many tenants have freed their tenants from the rent because they are aware that they need good, good people. At the same time, however, regardless of the amount not paid by the lease, the tax administration accounts for the value added tax, but also the income tax or profit tax, and that by assessment. It's not right, and I think the ministry should address it in the relevant tax laws. However, there is another problem, and I ask you to transfer this to the Minister of State Property, which is the problem that there is no possibility in the Law on the Hire of Business Space that there is no possibility that, any state, any local self-government of freedom of the tenants from the obligation to pay or to reduce that obligation. So... We have to change that law, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198422	Thank you. Comrade Matteljan, here you go, no need for intervention, colleague Grbin didn't touch the work space, but fine, if you want then... Well, fellow Mattelian, Mathelan. Damir Mateljan, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198423	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Secretary of State. The SDP shows itself in this crisis situation, acts as a responsible and serious party. On the one hand, this is affirmative, so we have accepted in two rounds a package of measures that the Government has sent to debate in this House, which concerns helping those who are at risk of spreading the COVID-19 virus. On the other hand, we're bringing, we're proposing our own measures that unfortunately come across something like this. So, uh, the government's self-interest, the self-interest of ruling MPs actually tells us what the government thinks about these measures, or what they think about the SDP and what they feel unfortunately about the opposition. The government when it also adopted that first set of measures, including the law that we had not debated, is the Civil Protection Act, saying, so on these measures, the Government has also urged the local state to also plant its financial backs and that it is also the local state that will adapt some of its measures to help all those, whether they are citizens or those companies that have died in this crisis. The local state has also done so in a way that it could, freeing the municipal fee, the communal contribution itself, paying the market price of kindergarten so that they can survive, however, what the government did not say, what is in some way not being said, and in this House I have not heard, let alone in the media, and that is that it is, in fact, with those first and other measures that the local state has just planted its back for reasons, because that financial burden on those measures that go as free entrepreneurs is just directed at the only tax, on the only real tax which is exclusively a tax belonging to local self-government, which is income tax. Without income tax, which accounts for almost 70% of all original incomes from local self-government, local self-government can survive this month to two days. Those who are with... Which so far seemed to us to be highly developed areas, won't last a month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is very important to tell people that this one will not have preschool education, that their infrastructure local will be able to disintegrate, that there will be no public lighting, that there will be no public transport, or people need to tell, that these measures will partially save the economy and that they will completely destroy the level of local self-government that we have achieved so far. It will simply be so if we don't come up with compensatory measures that no one talks about, and I understand why no one talks about compensatory measures because there is no money for compensation measures. So when we talk about planting the backs of local self-government, then there are things that don't have just financial weight, but also that organisational weight. The famous name around the pass. Finally, the public and the government have realized that there are over 300 units of local self-government that are simply not functionally whole and cannot function in a way that in that unit local self-government citizens can achieve both rights and all their therefore things they must do, such as, the most banal going to the bank, to the post office, to the pharmacy because you have municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have no banks, no post office, no pharmacy, no elementary school or anything else. And this depends not only on their size or their critical mass, but on their capacitation, both to people and to their financial capacitation. I don't know how much time I have left, so I'm going to figure it out. So usually after all these crises we like to go out with that sentence that's total flossula, which is, we're going to come out of this crisis even stronger and stronger. [[/Intruder: 15.]] We won't. So we'll get out of this crisis weaker and worse. But I hope at least So wiser that what concerns [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The local self-government will go into this reform of the local self-government reform. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198424	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Gordan Maras, colleague Maras, come in. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. I must admit that, I have, I feel strange in this hall and all this together when a man looks at you a little bit sorry and people who work here in the organization and people from HRT because you have a feeling that this is being done as a tower at the moment of the whole situation, or the system of decision-making in the Republic of Croatia, where we, as the Croatian Parliament, are moving from the hall to the hall from Šubićeva to INU, might now be able to go to another hall, in another town, I think that the institution as a Croatian Parliament must participate more and decide in the whole crisis that is happening in the Republic. So, if as a state we do not respect our institutions, if we have a meeting president who here says that the Rules of Procedure are 100% non-respectable, I think it is one of the most recent statements I have heard in the Croatian Parliament or on the other hand says about 129 votes, it sends you a message in fact that the Croatian Parliament as an institution at the moment seems to bother the HDZ, which is also seen from the overall behaviour, work, and at the end of the day and the situation which is now the government in this Chamber, where there is usually no one else. And on the other hand, discussing such important issues in these circumstances sounds pointless, because you see that you're proposing things, very serious things. Because when you propose that citizens do not pay for a year, they have a moratorium on loans it is a very serious thing for Croatian citizens, perhaps of crucial importance to survive the next year, which will be marked by crisis, loss of work, loss of income from tourism and all that is, then I think that such a topic is shown respect for both Croatian citizens and parliament to discuss under normal conditions in front of parliamentary representatives that this topic is accepted with respect and that we eventually come together to a certain solution. Because if the opposition supports the government's measures, so what is not logical is that instead of Vice-President Sanader giving lessons to opposition deputies he takes into account what the opposition is proposing. And the other thing when we suggest also one measure, means that when it comes to parents who at the moment have a problem with organising their lives in general how to educate children, how to stay at home, how to go to work, how to combine it all together, you can't use it in the most part of the grandparents' cases because if parents do, they're exposed, so they can pass on to their children, and then their parents can't look after their children because they can get infected too, so they're huge problems. And if, at that point, we suggest that we take a model by which one parent can stay at home and pay for sick leave, as the Health Insurance Act covers some other examples, so that's a very important topic. It deserves to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, it deserves to be heard, it deserves to be considered and perhaps accepted. We can't accept the situation where the secretary of state comes and says he's not authorized to talk about it here because like he's not the finance minister or not the prime minister, they're the only ones who can. Well, we don't live in a monarchy, where one person decides what can be done, what can't be done. Although it looks like some of them are just fine with you. We live in a parliamentary democracy where parliament plays its part and I am dissatisfied with how it all works now, and I must admit that I will talk about it in the future and when we return to the Hall of the Croatian Parliament and appeal here and to the people sitting in the presidency of the assembly, and I will certainly speak to the representative of our club to simply not allow such a situation. So we live in parliamentary democracy, we're responsible people, we can contribute to this situation as painlessly as possible for our fellow citizens. We don't agree with the statements he made before Mr. Pernar I think that this time we're fighting a crisis is good, that we're all satisfied that we have very few infected and deceased in relation to other countries and we support it and we will continue to support it if it works in a quality way and on the other hand if we can participate We want to participate, we want to enable solutions that will help Croatian citizens to get through this crisis as well as we can and the more painlessly we can not do anything to get Croatian citizens to live normally as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198426	Stay here, please. We have two replicas. He's my first colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198427	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I also think that measures and what the government is doing at this point are good and that it gives good results, and we, with our SDP, as a constructive opposition with our proposals just want it to be better, especially with this third package of measures. We are thinking about the time that comes after this health crisis, meaning in a few months, because we, with our package of measures, have included exactly those citizens that the Government has not included in its activities so far. And that's why I think we should maybe listen a little bit more. And as for the functioning and work of the assembly, I agree with you and I will talk about it all the time and keep warning about it and I want once again here to underline the line that these 15 days, 20 as far as we're not in the building of the Croatian Parliament, but in the basement of the INE there are no days we joined in the order that we have the same rules. So, not to disrespect the Rules of Procedure, but there are no agreements, because today it's worth one thing, tomorrow it's worth something else, then the day after tomorrow it's worth the third, then one chairman respects one rule, the other, and that's not good. We have a Rules of Procedure which is a sacred letter to us in all situations, if anything needs to be changed, then we need to change the Rules of Procedure and we all need to adapt to that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198428	Okay, thank you, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198429	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. I think that if we function as a rule or not, by 100% of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djujic has taken 1% of the time limit on the replica, so anyone can choose for themselves if the rules don't apply to everyone. And on this side, I ask you to pass it on to the President of the Croatian Parliament that we want to function normally and that all of this together is quite nothing and that in some way Croatian citizens deserve to do it in some normal conditions, to transfer their problems, to try to solve their problems and to contribute together to this crisis as soon as possible and to allow Croatian citizens to have confidence in the institutions that represent them. The message that none sits here except Mr. Shucker of HDZ MPs is a message that automatically denys the call on joint action by HDZ [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely visible from what's going on here. [[Intruder: Next replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.]] So... HDZ with a figure in its pocket calls all opposition parties... [[/Intruder: Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198430	Comrade Maras, please. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198431	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I absolutely agree with you in your qualifications that parliament should behave in crisis situations. For example, the Hungarians had a very good solution before this happened, namely that Orban received such broad powers. According to their Constitution, in the event of an emergency, parliament is constantly sitting, no one can disband it and every 15 days the government should submit a report to Parliament which, on the basis of this report, then extends or reduces, or extends the state of emergency. The role of Parliament here should be crucial precisely because of what we talked about. Some measures are imperfect and just in the discussion with more ideas and from multiple sides and more angles, we can come up with quality solutions. One of these is the staying of one parent at home and because of small children and because of the risk of transmission of infections, so we also protect the health of the population, protect jobs because the state jumps in where it can and we try to help as much as possible. Our citizens to adapt to the new creation [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a situation. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Hajdukovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198432	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198433	Thank you. I absolutely agree with you, and I think that in this situation the most we could do is help us, given that hundreds of citizens who share their problems with us every day are talking to us. But I ask you, if we are calling for joint action and unity, where is Jandrokovic now? Where's Branko Bacic? Where are all these HDZ people who need to discuss with us the proposals that help Croatian citizens? Di, where's Ante Sanader who called the opposition SDP yesterday if he hadn't suggested anything constructive? Where are these people, why aren't they taking part here with us in this debate? Why don't they say if our proposal is good or bad? Can it or cannot it be applied? Which is why it does not allow Croatian citizens to go peacefully to Easter and not think about paying off their loans and not leave them at the mercy of their banks. Believe me, if we don't set the rules the way To be for all [[Intruder: Time.]] identically, that people know transparently what their right is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Which is what it isn't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Banks will do so in his arrangement. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] I think that It's not correct and yes [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] We should put it that way. [[Intruder: Comrade Hajdukovic, please prepare for discussion.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198434	Thank you. Please, intervention, colleague Hajdukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Here you are Mr. Hajdukovic, please, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. Here you are, colleague Hajdukovic.]] Well, unfortunately, this crisis has shown how unprepared we are for these situations in every sense. In economics, I would dare say politically, which, we are witnessing right now, organisational, logistics, social, etc., etc. Let's just take the farm. This crisis has shown our agricultural production on its knees, which is simply a victim of many years of bad policy, poor direction, non-strategic thinking. That's right, so unfortunately we're victims and in a political sense because we don't have enough culture politically to listen to everything, all the suggestions, all the problems on the table and try to deal with these problems together. I fear that HDZ's unity is only, that is, their calls for unity are only when it suits them and that their perception of community and consensus is based on "that is what you can support us, we allow you to support us". But it's not the point, it's not the purpose of parliamentary democracy. Just because there are more of us from different parts of Croatia, from different segments of life in Croatia, we can give better suggestions, we can warn of some of the problems that perhaps the Government or we as legislators have initially missed and may warn of some things that may later have serious repercusions. One of them is definitely paying off citizens' loans. Why? Many were financially planning differently, things that are unfortunately very difficult, since this epidemic, I read in one medium that about a thousand people get fired daily. If that's true, it's a terrible piece of information. In the meantime, there was also an earthquake in Zagreb, so many families in Zagreb are exposed to an additional unplanned cost of housing adaptation, if they were lucky that their apartments were still useful. For all these people, the postponement of payments, or the moratorium on the payment of loans per year, will mean little space for, to catch air, to be financially consolidated and to continue to pay their commitments. Without that beginning, I'm afraid it'll be very difficult for them, that many won't be able to repay their debts, many will lose their jobs in the meantime, we don't know how further the pandemic situation will move, as far as the economy is concerned, so we're trying to solve this equation with all the unknowns so that at least one acquaintance can be introduced into it. Also, no one has mentioned seasonal employees except for our measures so far, the 3rd package of measures. Or permanent, so-called. Permanent season. There are slightly less than 6 thousand in Croatia. These are people who, during the season, make about 6 to 7 months enough to survive the whole year and thus service their debts and all the other financial obligations they have. Since nothing's happened since the season, we need to think about protecting these exactly, slightly less than 6,000 people. If we're counting on it to be 6,000 families, then you can imagine how much repercussion could be if we don't adequately protect them. Also, people who have been fired as a consequence of the crown will be a major problem or we need to help them and take care of them, help them to stop their feet and serve them in their short - term financial obligations if God gives them no credit. Also, no one mentions employees who are at the Bureau who have no compensation. What's the number of people like that? So they have no right to any compensation for various reasons, which now because of a crisis that will become and grow into an economic crisis have no right and have no perspective of finding a job soon. It's the same segment of people we have to worry about and who we have to help. Therefore, as I have said, our measures may not be perfect, neither are the government's measures, but I believe that with one different approach, in a broader dialogue and in a dialogue with more respect, above all, from the ruling to the opposition, there would be much more quality proposals. Because I am afraid that these government proposals will need to be corrected more than once, that they will be subject to quite frequent changes and that this will create additional uncertainty among citizens but also in the economy because of the constant changes in market conditions, whether labour, whether the economy, or markets in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198436	Please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198437	My colleague Hajdukovic and I, with this proposal, are essentially concerned about citizens who have not yet felt this crisis. So, you said yourself when this health problem goes down for, we hope as soon as possible that a part of the people except for those who are unemployed and who live on the edge of poverty and those who stood up to yesterday will feel this crisis very well. And now let's say I set an example, today at the 2nd month of this year the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was about 6,500 kuna, I'm going to stick to those figures. So someone who had 6,500 kuna before this pandemic, took out a loan, planned his own life, got hit by this situation, and, say, most employers put these workers on a minimum or these 4,000 kuna due to government measures. So these workers lost 2,000, 2,500 kuna, and they'll only feel that later. This moratorium on loans means a lot to them, and it makes the situation much easier because other than preserving jobs, we encourage and spending citizens right now. in this way that these funds can be spent. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198438	Thank you, colleague Giujic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198439	I agree, fellow Djujic, that the crisis will end today, the consequences will be great and long-term. So we can't predict how many more people will lose their jobs, unfortunately, how much pay cuts, purchasing power, if it comes to question and swearing courses, it's also going to be a big problem. So there's a lot of problems waiting for us. But the same thing that's important for us to point out when we talk about our moratorium law, I think it's that those who have a good financial situation don't have to use this law. So those who have regular incomes, which will continue to have regular incomes, can choose to continue to service their debts to banks. That way, they won't be cut off as far as the payment plan or the end of their commitment to the bank is concerned, as they planned, but unfortunately I'm afraid they'll be in your minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198440	Thank you. I would like a little intervention and an individual debate from colleague Karolina Leaković. Here you go. Last reported debate, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, if we are in a crisis without precedent, and we are in the midst of the worst yet to come, and then, at least economically, then from the government and the political and economic elite as residents, it is certain that we have the right to expect solutions that will benefit the largest number of people. And these people who live on their work, not on capital, not on rent, not on inheritance, not on the accumulated, but on people, and these are the ones that live in Croatia the most, in fact, on their fair salary regardless of whether it is earned in trade, in the food industry, in transport, in services, in schools, in the hospital or in the office. If we work indefinitely on a particular one, then our contracts are extended every, every few months, maybe not always in accordance with the law, and we know that there are such situations too. He knew that the government declaredly insists on community, it's not a new word discovered, but it seems to me that for this government, a new word has been discovered, or one that is very often in the use of last weeks of solidarity. We're saying that the health crisis, or the government, is saying that we need to overcome the health crisis with common forces, appeal to the responsibility of each and every one of us, and I can certainly agree with that and I can support it. Of course, if we are not deprived of human rights in this government’s once unnecessarily restrictive decisions and, of course, if we are not deliberately deceived and tried to hide some information. We know that we have recently had such a case with the purchase of medical equipment, and we have had one case with a secret meeting in the government between the prime minister, the culture minister and the editor-in-chief of several media houses on which, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not want to present details and did not answer any questions about the meeting. The public and journalists must never, nor in this situation, remain deprived of the answers to questions about how decisions are made, why the main editors of some media houses were invited to a meeting in the government and what they were promised, to report on government measures that they would receive in return. So, unlike this solidarity when it comes to the health crisis and the epidemiological measures, when it comes to economics, I think it's hard to agree that we're all on the same boat, that it's the same for all of us, that the crisis on all of us is the same, that we all have to tighten the belt, that either we're all gonna challenge and save private entrepreneurs and their property, or we're all going to fail, and that it's not the time to question each other, and it's especially not the time to insist on working rights, on collective contracts, on collective agreements, on coefficients, says cut yourself immediately and now without any renunciation, etc., in other words socialize or share private losses, and we don't touch private profits. It has already been said today on several occasions that we have not seen how the banks have reacted in this crisis whether they have submitted part of the burden. They did not bear part of the burden, however, we saw that the owners of private companies better sent their workers and most of their workers to the stock market immediately, although perhaps they should not have done so. If we ever find out, so what is the number of those who immediately sent workers to the stock market and before measures, we will, of course, ask the Ministry of Labour and HZZ. We know there's no write-off for citizens, no lifting unnecessary banking obligations, no abandonment of performances, no appraisals. We still haven't actually made a decision about parents who care for children who don't go to school and kindergarten to determine what SDP is looking for today. We also did not make a decision that even now unemployed who have worked less than 9 months in the past 24 months have the right to compensation, this should certainly be taken into account. And there are a lot of problems that people warn us about, so I will take advantage of the opportunity with us of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health to warn him of a letter of 17 March which she sent to the Ministry, directed the Croatian Association for Rare Diseases, which warns of a special situation involving employees who are at the same time patients with autoimmune diseases, parents of chronically ill children who raise their voices and warn that they have to work, and they are very exposed to the group, so I call on the ministry to take care of their health. Ideas for the State to be a cornerstone of economic policy, economic activity to use this crisis to change the dominant political economic paradigm, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, we have yet to hear and I appeal in this regard. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198442	Thank you. And my last debate with my colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last few weeks a paradigm of relations with state institutions has changed. The rule so far is to say so to the public or most citizens in some vague situation between institutions and individuals as a rule stood aside from individuals. And lately, in this vague situation between individuals and institutions, they tend to side with the institution especially if it's the police about healthcare professionals or about someone from these now we call it the more popular service represented by the state. It is good when institutions gain greater trust from citizens, but it is never good to give non-critical trust to anyone, to either individual or to institutions. Therefore, they should always be questioned and treated critically. One of the equative examples was the police's conduct in the case of two citizens in Split who wanted to take a walk, and then there was, I would say training, unnecessary training of strictness against individuals, and there was a journalist there and it became generally known. We have then a reverse case, so in front of a church also in Split police showed much more tolerance, patience towards a priest who invited people to mass, and when the officers came to warn them that it was a violation of the headquarters's recommendations then he fell into an argument with a policeman that a police officer had finally had to interpret something from a religion, it was perhaps excessive tolerance, but somewhere between this situation the increased power of the institution I would say in relation to the rights of the individual should find a good balance. This is why it is good for us to talk about this in the Croatian Parliament live at the thematic session of the Committee on Human Rights. So, on one portal came an article about what all citizens ask the attorney general, I wouldn't say that it was an explanation of litigation with state institutions, it was really about certain individual problems of life that people came across because of this epidemic and the rapid ones, but when the measures were faster then they weren't enough, there wasn't enough thought about possible side effects that I believe had time to think about them further to be avoided. What do all the citizens actually write to the D.A.? So most often it's about people who got fired, and for various reasons they can't exercise their rights as unemployed people. Then it is about students who, because of their inability to work during the epidemic, cannot be supported and asked the competent authorities to assist students in the form of a delay in the payment of tuition. Afterwards, citizens have problems communicating with HZZ, and related to the exercise of the right for the unemployed. Most often they fail to obtain feedback on who is processing or their demands and fail to exercise rights. They are particularly numerous citizens who have jobs but who fail to work because of their obligations to young children in circumstances where kindergartens and schools are closed, then they do not know how to take care of children when they have to work again because of the end of their vacation and sick leave, then they state that despite their open-label care, employers call them to return to work, then others report that the employer determines 7-day work without rest despite the care of underage children, and then ask that the employer asks them to work even though he has not provided them with protections such as masks and gloves, then the worker reported whose employer requests to come to work personally even though he does not live in a city where he works and depends on public transportation and can't de facto come. The employers are also reporting. And that's to say, someone hired two seasons, but now he doesn't know what to do with them and their compensation, and in the end we have cases because of these passes, so he can't worry, come to visit a child living in another municipality, and he doesn't get a pass. Retired people who can't go to a bank, to a pharmacy, etc., or to a post office to raise a pension because they don't have a post office. And all these problems, I'm here, as long as I have time to count, require reaction, require reaction. an institution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198444	First, it's Mrs. Crescent. Buric, she can have an intervention at any moment, please, then colleague Schuker. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198445	Thank you. Thank you so much, Vice President HS. So, very briefly. We are here today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 5 state secretaries from 5 different ministries, now the two of us have delivered an oral opinion on the SDP package and by the fact that we were 5 out of 5 different ministries, I think it's a very clear message of respect for the promoter and I'm not saying it at all that I would be pathetic but very honest and open. Health is not everything, however, all without health is absolutely nothing and it is a saying that is more than ever proved true today. What I am also glad is that today most are in a direct or indirect way, regardless of what political groups came from, that parliamentary representatives and MPs have said that this double crisis that we are facing is strategically well-led and that we have good governance. Moreover, this is what we are talking about today, which is a package of measures, which, which is unlegislative, this government, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, has provided only so far 65 billion kuna and what I must mention, is that it is neither the first nor the last package of measures. You know that yourself. - Mrs. Crescent. Leakovic asked a question about people who had lost their jobs in this crisis, and that is why we are talking about the number of about 13,000 people, newly unemployed, which is why the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, or the executive body of the Croatian Employment Service yesterday, included in the criteria for obtaining support for the preservation of jobs, the possibility that employers who report to this support should these people return to work, that they can get that support for them too, so we are talking about support from 4 thousand kuna. There he is. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198446	Stay, you have one more replica, please. Thank you very much. [[- Yeah, good.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk. [[Intruder: Please.]] Thank you. So then, no, no, wait, wait, there's another line, don't leave yet, there's a colleague named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198447	Thank you. State Secretary. It's a good-looking jump, "Health isn't everything, but without health, we're nothing." Did I quote correctly? [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] The saying, it's more to me, it's to be honest, it's more to me to jump. [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] But health protection can't be a front for anything to be done. You can't do everything. So, you need to balance between health, among other segments of life, and you know what our Constitution says, what's everything? Thus, even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the state, the right to life, to ban torture, cruel and humiliating treatment and punishment, thoughts, freedom of mind, conscience, and religion cannot be limited. That's all. So, I agree on the importance of what you've said, but I'm not in favour of such rhetoric justifying possible restrictions on everything and everything for health, but I like the saying, now it's not, it's good, but it's not good for political game. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198448	Here, answer, secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198449	Thank you, Honorable Representative Bauk. So I repeat again. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to preserve health, protect health, on the other hand, preserve jobs, stand behind all Croatian entrepreneurs and workers and try and help and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198450	Thank you, too. Now my colleague Schuker is on behalf of the MPs' club final. I'm just asking for my colleagues' intervention. Thank you. How? I don't doubt you, just what I'm stressing. Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198451	Thank you very much. Well, I answered about three things. The first was once in the Croatian Parliament to have mutual respect among MPs and respect for what the MPs wanted to say. Unfortunately, however, those who spoke most today about how there are no MPs in the Assembly, now there are none in the assembly. There are four of us left. The other thing I wanted to say, I'm honest, but really this is what I tell you out of the soul, after all, and my debate was like this, I expected that colleagues from the SDP who have been reported for discussion each by one or two laws will try to explain the legal proposals to us, and with this, a couple of colleagues who have mentioned certain things, we haven't heard anything. We heard attacks on the government. This is what the Government likes, so eventually on the President of the Parliament, on this, on that, etc., I think today was a debate to fight, not to conflict, to oppose opinions and to think about how to solve this crisis. And lastly, yesterday, I just got this information, the EU Commission confirmed HBOR's portfolio loan scheme for liquidity, so much so that I'm going to mention again and apostrophe my colleague Lalovec, the two of us, no matter what we're from different clubs, are saying that at this point we need to secure funds from all possible sources, and this is just another confirmation that the government is working on all fronts. Some things can be spoken publicly, and some things can be spoken of only when they happen. It is a good thing that anyone who has any knowledge of professional everyday life as a proposal in the Croatian Parliament, but look at colleagues and colleagues, maximum respect and according to this institution was that the colleagues from the club who proposed this legislative proposal would be more present in this debate, it would simply point to the seriousness of this proposal, this is not reading any lesson, but when you give the political rival a chance for creamworth then it would be a shame not to take advantage of it. And how seriously you think about these suggestions of yours is best shown by those who spoke of them, I say honor with exceptions, and these exceptions remain now and in the assembly, the best shows how many people are left in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198452	Thank you, too. My colleague Bauk, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is final, and I apologize on behalf of the Proposer, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Proposer 10, 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198453	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Shuker, Honored Representative Hajdukovic, Honored representative Leakovic, the esteemed vice president, then what you should welcome yourself to, I thank you. So, first of all, the SDP Club didn't choose the time of the debate, we got it this afternoon, we could discuss it tomorrow morning, it might end something more, it might be a little more media attention, but the debate is in line with 90% of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, these 10% of what the president of the day said to adapt it to the situation. We think it was our responsibility to propose a package of measures to help citizens in the first place because some of these proposals can happen in a very similar way from the government in the next month, it can happen. Well, then we'll have what you just said about creamworth, and we'll be able to say we told you or we suggested. And I don't see that that's some big problem, it's a political competition in these circumstances of the epidemic. So when a normal boxing situation without gloves is put on a little thicker gloves and watch every word, and sometimes some of our colleagues still fail to resist calling to cross that fine line between this constructive community that we witness and regular situations. So I would, however, be encouraged by criticism from fellow Shucker once again, briefly said what our proposals were, so 10 measures to help citizens affected by the pandemic. First fee of at least 4,000 kuna per month in the next 3 months for unemployed people who were fired. Then a fee of half a minimum salary per month or 1,625 kuna for the unemployed on the stock market and do not receive any compensation. Permanent seasons fee at a minimum salary of 3,250 kuna per month, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for social assistance users, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for pensioners with small pensions as well as for all persons below the income censorship, a cancellation of the RTV subscription for pensioners with small pensions and social assistance users. Subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna per month for renting the apartment for all of the most affected groups. Terminate the execution and increase the amount of wages exempt from the performance, issue of bank cards for blocked citizens for the on-line transaction, abolishing charges on-line transaction as in crisis conditions no physical contact. I don't think I've even listed all these suggestions. I believe that we will also get a written statement from the government before voting on our proposals, so that, since they have been proposed last week, and I can know the work and functioning of the government agree that maybe there was not enough time to get the government's written statement, but until the vote, since we now have a week's break, we can really get the government's written statement on our bill proposals, too, so that the foundation of them and the foundation of the government's work in the future would allow us to see how much these arguments have been justified, and how much they were merely the fruit of us proposing something without the government's proposal. It's the same thing in political life that's possible. I also believe that the assembly will find time to discuss perhaps in a united debate, such as today, proposals from other promoters, not only the SDP Club, but also other proposings, and that we will have to decide whether we are still in this situation in the constructive community as it is said, but it is not a good way not to accept any proposal, or any amendment of the opposition. Then indeed, as counterpart Maras said, we may be serving as a tower, and at the same time the bodies that make decisions are especially spared, excluded from criticism, the Maltas do not welcome any criticism against them on the knife as if they were protected from criticism or as if I were going to say it without a problem, holy cows, so there are no sacred cows in democracy. But what matters is that their decisions should be implemented and respected, but it is allowed and desirable if they are not good critics because they have also created certain problems for citizens who may still be less than the problems that have been spared by the citizens, for example, I think most of all about preventing the spread of the infection. I thank again everyone who participated, thank the state secretaries from all five ministries, especially my colleague Buric and colleagues from the health ministry who was Plazonic, where he was a representative in the previous assembly of the parliament, but I was afraid not to make a mistake, who remained until the end and representatives, especially colleagues Suker who stayed until the end. I hope that, on our return to the Croatian Parliament, we will continue with the normal dynamics of the debate, that the Parliament will remain a place of control of the government and to prevent the arbitrary conduct of a body that is not good when they have no control and that I believe that other colleagues, whether they are from a position or opposition, will contribute. So, I think that in Croatia, we have long fought for democracy so that only so democratic institutions would now deprive their constitutional powers. Some laws could be passed today by agreement and by a two-thirds majority, but the Constitutional Court will then discuss it well, and for everything else we see next week in the new debate, in the new confrontations of opinions, I believe in new constructive decisions that citizens will be able to cope with this crisis as easily as possible. It will be easy if this lasts for two months, but if it lasts longer then the end of the epidemic will sooner be declared by the Minister of Finance than the Minister of Health because suddenly our alternative will die from hunger or from the crown of the virus becoming a general alternative. Therefore, we can endure for some time, but we also need to think about the scenarios of how to live in co-existence with the coronary virus with the least consequences for society, for citizens, for the economy and for the way we're used to living until the middle of the 3rd month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198454	Thank you. That concludes the debate on a set of ten laws, we'll vote on them when the conditions are met. Another information for counterpart Leaković, a colleague of Hajdukovic, a colleague of Shuker and a colleague of Bauk, the work of the Parliament continues on Wednesday 15th April at 9.30 p.m. on Mark's square with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Coastal Research Security, Carbon Exploitation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 821. Thank you very much and the secretary of state for being here. I wish everyone a happy Easter. Goodbye. SESSION DISCONTINUED
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198455	Final draft law supplementing the Income Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 891. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the final proposal of that law, which the government does not accept, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The proposal didn't get enough votes, the law wasn't passed, 36 was for, 2 abstentions and 75 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198456	Let's move on to the agenda. We have already agreed to conduct a joint discussion on the set of 6 laws proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club and one joint SDP representative's club and representative Goran Aleksic's team, and on three proposals for a conclusion submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, these are: - Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the Law on Contribution, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal for the Act on the Law on Obligors, First and Second Amendments, - Final Proposal for the Law on the Complementary of the Law on the Morals, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal of the Law on Obligations, the Emergency Act on the Taxes, the Second Amendments of the Act, the Second Amendments, the Second Amendment of the Act, the Act on the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Protection of the Act, the Law on the Act, the Second Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Rec, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Protection of the Law on the First, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the First, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law on the Law of the First, the First, the Law on the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the First, the Law on the Law on the Law, the Law of the Law, the Law, the Law, the Law of the First Act, the Law, on the Law on the Law of the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law, the Law, the First Act, the Law, the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on the Working of the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice. The government didn't deliver an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198457	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning, we warned a month and a half ago about the effects of the crisis caused by the coronary virus. Three weeks ago, we went out with our first package with more than 15 measures to help citizens and preserve jobs. Our measures were not then adopted by the government. Since the first government measures that followed only by our measures were too focused on prolongation, on delays, and they were not enough help for entrepreneurs, nor their employees, and time was leaking, the SDP sent our second package of more than 10 laws to save the economy and jobs, which we are unfortunately considering today. The second package comes today after voting on the government's package, shows in fact only demeaning and opposition, but also citizens, especially those citizens who have lost their jobs in the last two weeks due to late government reactions, over 20,000 of them as well as those citizens who at this point fear losing their jobs. Further demeaning comes precisely because the government was not even ready to manifest itself on this proposal. This only shows the relationship that currently exists in Croatia with all those who are trying to constructively help their proposals the poorest, most endangered, unemployed and other most vulnerable groups of citizens who are going through a severe crisis in Croatia thanks to the coronary virus. It is precisely because of a late reaction from the Government that the SDP proposed in the second package a write-off, not just a postponement of taxes and contributions, and we have suggested that we exempt the payment of profit tax for all entrepreneurs because this is not a time in which they can simply or should credit the state. Secondly, we have proposed the release from the payment of the flat-rate tax for craftsmen and small tenants due to special circumstances because they are closed due to the decision of the headquarters and we have proposed to write down 100% of the contributions for salaries to employees during the duration of the crisis simply so that they can help these people because they are closed by the decision of the headquarters due to the crown of the virus. After a very high public pressure, after we had pushed in the SDP for the past three weeks, offered to the Croatian public, and also to the Croatian government to help solve these problems in trying to preserve jobs, after pushing them to move faster, to simply do more in the direction of protection and employers, but also jobs, only one step was taken to help the economy. Therefore, the proposals for a write-down of taxes and contributions were accepted. But now you need at this specific moment of help right now to the citizens, to do what is not done. Help those most vulnerable, workers, but also unemployed, parents who stay with children at home, but also those workers who stay at home alone in self-insulation, as well as those on the first line of defense against the epidemic. Therefore, the SDP continues to insist on its second package of laws to help preserve jobs and therefore we still feel that our proposals are needed at this point. It is necessary to increase the basis for compensation for self-insulation workers to the average salary level because this fee of 2100 kuna is simply too small for a man's life. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide paid leave to at least one parent who spends time at home with his child under 12 years of age, especially since in this situation the parent is particularly affected at work. It is also necessary to increase the amount of non-taxable payments to help employers in particularly sensitive activities in the root of the crisis to reward their workers, especially those now on the first line of defence against the epidemic and helping Croatian citizens not to lack anything, so that they can reward traders, so that they can reward pharmacists, drivers, workers and logistics workers, as well as security guards, those whose simple work in these difficult times has not stopped but is even more pronounced. 4. it would be responsible to enable workers who are at risk of a job due to the crisis to pay 75% of the salary, up to a maximum of 5,100 kuna, it is a small cost to the state, and it is certainly a guarantee of a much better life for those people who cannot work in these conditions. And they can't work primarily on sectors for which Croatia's GDP depends most, it's tourism and hospitality. Tourism reminds me that it accounts for over 20% of our GDP, when tourism and hospitality are at stake in the government in this segment has done absolutely nothing, practically nothing but petty cosmetic and technical changes. We recall that the SDP has proposed to abolish the obligation to pay the flat-rate tax for small tenants, we have also proposed to abolish the obligation to pay advances for artisan craftsmen and to abolish certain parafiscal duties including the flat-rate amount of tourist tax and membership fee to the tourist community during the crisis. And I remind you that we will continue to insist that VAT in tourism and catering goes to 5% especially at this time of crisis, as we today insist that VAT on food delivery goes to 0% because we believe that in these difficult times, especially in the circumstances of the crisis when people order delivery needs to act on one hand and to reduce prices, but also to reduce taxes to those who have suffered the most damages due to the crisis, and these are the caterers. At a time of crisis, we must be solid, especially us politicians who represent citizens, especially those who are most affected by this crisis and who have lost their jobs or gone to a minimum. We therefore propose that for the next three months, parliamentary representatives and other state officials, other than those on the first line of defence against the virus, work for a minimumer to solidarity with a number of citizens who will be affected by this crisis, and unfortunately more and more in Croatia. 70,000 social assistance users, 240,000 blocked, more than 400,000 citizens living below the poverty threshold of 1,940 kuna, mostly part of the pensioners. In just two weeks of the crisis primarily due to a late government reaction, over 20,000 workers are jobless, another 400,000 fear for losing their jobs. For 5,500 permanent seasons and over that number as well as for more than 100,000 people registered on the stock market, and now they are not receiving any compensation for the simple prospect of employment is almost completely destroyed due to the crisis and they need help. So, it's over a million of the most vulnerable who can't pay the directors soon, can't pay the rent for the apartment, can't pay the loans. It is already clear that this crisis will take, in particular, a recovery from the crisis, so that we insist in the SDP that it is necessary to secure the moratorium on loans for a year, not just three months, and in a way that the interest is calculated in order to ensure on one hand the safety of entrepreneurs to continue their business, but in order to make them the most important thing, to ensure that citizens continue their normal lives without fear and uncertainty. It is necessary at this point to suspend and tighten interest, we have also suggested and is in this set of laws to help the economy and preserve jobs. So I want to say, in the SDP, we will continue to insist on the moratorium, on paying off loans for a year, but we will also insist on our third package of measures to help the citizens we presented the other day, which includes. First, a fee of 4,000 kuna per month in the next three months for unemployed people who were fired because of the root crisis, thanks to a late reaction from the government, a protection supplement of 750 kuna per month for all users of social assistance, etc. The minimum fee guaranteed is 70,000, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for all those who have income below the poverty threshold, so it's between 350 and 400,000 people below the threshold of 1,940 kuna per person for the most part of the pensioners, so these are pensioners with small pensions. We will insist on a fee of half the minimum wage, i.e. $1,625 per month for the unemployed currently on the stock market, who do not receive any remuneration and whose chance of employment has been completely destroyed due to the crisis, we will insist on continuing seasons at a minimum wage of 3,250 kuna per month of them 5,500, simply people have to live on something. Also, we propose to abolish the RTTV subscription precisely for these most affected layers of citizens, as well as a subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna renting the apartment for these mentioned categories, of course for people who are hired. What I would particularly like to put an emphasis on, I would like to stress that our legal proposals to be referred to in the procedure will require a suspension of the performance and an increase in the amount of pay free of charge, as well as the issue of bank cards blocked with a certain spending limit and the abolition of transactions i.e. compensation for transactions in online payments simply so that under the conditions of the crisis there will be no physical contact. We believe that these measures are very concrete, that they are implemented and that they should act quickly to help the most vulnerable groups of citizens, unemployed, pensioners, permanent seasons, social assistance users. I call on the government to consider them and to respect them as she has already complied with some of our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198458	Thank you. Continuing, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198459	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would only briefly comment on the moratorium law on the loans of debtors why it matters. In his statement, the CNB made public, i.e. according to the recommendations of the European Central Bank or the European Banking Supervisory Mechanism in Frankfurt, it said for a year that you have a framework for all business entities and citizens not to go to... claims. In other words, what does that mean? The CNB, or regulator, has already given a year to all business banks how to treat claims in their books, which means that banks already have the opportunity to do so. What does it matter? If this crisis, we all know, and we're aware that it can't end in three months, if the banks start to collect claims after three months, but now we have a liquidity problem, they'll simply suck all the money out of the system. If businesses and citizens come to them after three months, all these amounts, simply when the economy needs to be returned if they are bank priorities they will simply suck all the money out of the system if they have insurance instruments, they can charge much better from the state, they can be charged sooner than the state. And that's why it's important to calm down if we're saving the economic system now, now we're saving the economy of the Republic of Croatia. After three months, banks cannot be a priority over the state and cannot be a priority over other suppliers. And that's why it's important, and all the legal mechanisms have to be very good at controlling the whole process now. And here's why our intensity was to go with this moratorium for a year, only to those who are in liquid problems, only to those citizens who are at a minimum and only to those who are at risk, that they are simply given the opportunity to cope in that particular period of time. But what I'm warning you all the time is that it's simply our biggest fear of liquidity, liquidity or the insolvency of the system, that the system doesn't crack in the 6th month, is that we won't be able to get foreign exchanges about tourism and that simply when the economy starts to turn to make priority to suppliers and to pay bills, and only later will the banks that have the biggest capital and later come to the state that when the economy starts and collects their claims. Here's what I'd like to ask my colleague, Alexic, if that's what we agreed on for the last words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198460	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198461	I thank the SDP first of all for inviting me to propose with them the Moratorium on Loans Act, as this is my area of action since the beginning of the Croatian Parliament of the Bank, credit institutions, debts. I also note that it is very good that certain measures of force are also proposed in this third package, it will be proposed that we already proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia deblocking accounts, bans on enforcement, cards to everyone for free, free Internet banking, all this is important in these moments to enable citizens. The SNAGA party has proposed 16 measures in total, but I would now say something more about these moratories because it is the subject of exposure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has announced as one of the measures of the moratorium on the payment of the loan claim, as announced by the government of the Republic of Croatia, however, the government has not proposed a binding measure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has obviously discussed this with banks because banks have offered moratories to citizens, but these moratories include the calculation of interest, and these interest rates reach the day the moratorium ceases to operate and then they are deployed to wars or whatever bank it intends to negotiate with its debtors. It's not a moratorium. Such a moratorium of banks approve consumers, businesses, anyone and in a normal situation, therefore it is not a moratorium that must be made possible in the current crisis situation. In the current crisis situation, a moratorium must be allowed to collect claims from loans without interest and without any other charges being charged. If the moratorium lasts a year, and it should take a year, because the crisis will not stop the day the virus stops working, but the crisis will continue, because we will all be in the most citizens' problems, businesses less because they will start working, which is why the measure needs to be extended for a year. And it is easy to reduce the measure in the meantime if there is a better situation between citizens and businesses. Croatian banks can handle this measure without a problem. Croatian banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is excess liquidity. What does that mean? This means that they have 34 billion kunas of their own money that they can do whatever they want to do because they are not obliged to account for that money to anyone. And these 10 billion I said now seem to have fired the CNB in the last tranche another number of billions, so their liquidity is even greater than, that excess liquidity is even more than 34 billion kuna. Therefore, the banks must wait for the payment, and in addition the banks are obliged to the Croatian citizens who have robbed for the course of the franc, for the payment of interest that was illegal for a total of 20 billion kuna, hence those banks that are due to all of us, and perhaps for those of you who are here with me now, perhaps some of you banks owe us, and the banks they owe us should not now be charged in the annuity crisis. What's still missing, and what we haven't covered by the law is the licking, so the licking should be covered by the moratorium, it's primarily important for those companies that deal with transport, so they've got to get to licking buses, some other means of transport or the means of working in agriculture, so it's not working for them now, they need to be given a lysing moratorium because they don't fit at this time. So there are a series of measures still missing, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider this bill that we have put into the SDP procedure and I as Parliament's representative of the SNAGA party. I hope you will also consider this new package of measures mentioned by my colleague Bernardic, about cards, about unblocking citizens, about breaking up accounts, about free Internet banking. I don't think there's gonna be a problem with that, the government hasn't done it yet, but I don't think the government will have a problem with that, and that if the government doesn't even accept this proposal, they're going to prepare their proposal the way the government thinks it's best and they're going to put it in the process within about 7 to 10 days. Here's thank you for listening very carefully to what I've put forward and I hope you'll accept all of it in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198462	Thank you to Reverend Goran Aleksic. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinovic has a request for the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198463	... in accordance with Article. 248. The Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work seek a five-minute break in front of the club Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to warn the citizens and here present representatives of the complexity, the additional complexity of this economic situation in Croatia for which this second round of measures will not be sufficient today. In that sense, and thus I want to change Croatia constructively to this proposal for a package of measures that is now being discussed, I would like to draw particular attention to the second pension pillar. I'm looking for and I suggest, respected citizens, that they all be deposited in another pension column frozen during the crisis. Why? Because every month, on average, about 500 million kuna is paid into the second pension column, which is about 6 billion kuna a year. Now imagine how much it would mean, respected citizens, 500 million kunas every month during the crisis that you can get that money that's missing from the state, that you can pay minimum workers who have lost their jobs, social cases, those who are seasons that no one sees or asks what they're doing somewhere in between. Therefore, I think it is very important and we take advantage of this situation, we are ready, we have excellent economic experts in the party to change Croatia, we use this crisis to start reforming the second pension pillar, to transform it, to give people freedom to transfer their money or to the first pension column where they will guarantee the state or to the third liberal so that they can be rich or lost, but the time is so. If we do this, we will drastically reduce public debt, repair public finances and contribute to saving the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198464	Thank you. I'll have a break by 14.50. THE PURPOSE
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198465	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.50 HOURS]] So we have three replicas, we have two replicas at the exhibition of our colleagues Bernardic, we have one replica on the presentation of our fellow Lalovec. First fellow Maras at the fair of fellow Bernardic. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you explained a whole series of laws that I don't think it's a good thing we didn't discuss before the vote today, because some proposals are certainly still very current and we just need to apply them. One such proposal is also the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act where we predicted that one parent should be allowed to stay with his child if both parents work because we know that school doesn't work, that our children are home. We must thank parents who at this time are making a great effort to make up for this situation that is with their children, teachers who send tasks parents must work because they simply have to gain knowledge. And it would be much easier if the state would allow one parent to be at home with his child and do what is necessary. Here's what I want you to further comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198467	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198468	Dear colleague Maras. Maybe that's why you said that we don't actually have the government's opinion today because if they asked anyone responsible from the health care system of any epidemiologist, you'd say that for the possibility of spreading the infection isn't as good as our thousands of citizens do, going to work with children because they don't have anywhere to leave them. They're going with little boys, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia it hasn't been recorded yet, but we've seen that young people and children can be infected around the world and unfortunately the coronarys of the virus are dying. Not to mention when you bring a child to work, that virus can spread faster. So I can't believe that in a month there's no understanding, no sense, no common sense when it comes to treating parents who should stay home with their children for up to 12 years to prevent and spread the infection, but to make their lives much more pleasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198469	Thank you. The next replica of a colleague of the coat of arms on a colleague of Bernardic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Maras spoke of one important measure, and I would single out one other which seems to me to be extremely important for Croatian citizens, which is a matter of moratorium on loan payments. What the government of the Republic of Croatia has agreed with Croatian business banks and what business banks are giving based on their decision is all but a moratorium. It is a delay, a delay that citizens and citizens will pay dearly because during the duration of that delay they will be charged interest on the entire principal of the loan. So, in this way, the banks will actually cost 6 months of delays to Croatian citizens and make extra money in this way. That is why I believe that this may be the most important measure of all that we have proposed, and I absolutely advocate its adoption and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198471	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198472	First of all, thank you, fellow coat of arms, for that observation. That's what we're going to insist on, it's inadmissible that at this difficult moment the banks are reaching for additional profits in those who are unhappy with this crisis, which are the most endangered. And it is unacceptable for the government to calmly observe that additional interest is being charged on loans that people can no longer pay, especially those 20,000 people who are out of work thanks to the late government reaction or those 400,000 who fear that they will lose their jobs because simply those companies where they work today are closed. And that's why it's necessary, and that's why we're going to insist on making a moratorium on loans for the citizens for a year, but in a way that doesn't account for any extra interest because it's absolutely certain that this crisis is going to last and that we're going to need some more time to get out of this crisis. That's why we've been looking for a year, not any less prolongation periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198473	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask a colleague of Lalovec and a colleague of Maras you have a replica on a colleague of Lalovec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198474	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, I'd like to comment on the situation regarding the delay and moratorium on the loans. At this point, we have a situation that is not regulated and defined, so some banks haven't charged loans by this date until they see that citizens are applying for them to process and examine it in some way who would have the right and who wouldn't have the right. But I think and I think it would be normal for the state to regulate the system and know exactly what situation citizens are entitled to the moratorium for a year and on the other hand to protect them from the uncertainty of the next months and the next year. Because we know all seasons will be zero, over 300,000 people will be out of a job very soon, 300,000 took advantage of the possibility of being on the minimal offered by the government, the state has to do it urgently, so we don't have time to wait because the banks already recognized certain problems I think the state should too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198475	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198476	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, for asking. That's why the SDP also proposes a moratorium for a year, precisely because this won't be over in three months, only at 6 and 7 months we'll see the state of unemployment in society, we'll see that a number of companies that will only then open their doors at 6 and 7 months start from zero, let's not forget that they start from scratch that these three months of moratorium mean nothing to them. These companies will all take more than a year to recover their pre-crisis traffic. And because of this, when these companies start from zero, they will likely have minimally certain revenues, no tourism, no economic activity, and therefore it is important that in the 6th, 7th and 8th months when economic activity is due to return, not all banks will be frozen to purchase all of the liquidity from the system and thus will still cause economic recession and therefore we expect a very fast liquidity fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198477	Thank you. Now the government's representatives will give an additional explanation in a united call it a 15-minute debate with you being able to replicate each and every one of them, they will change. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198478	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In addition, to the set of legal regulations as well as the conclusions proposed in this agenda, a total of 10, what was introduced and said in view of the government's obligation to give its position and opinion, which for obvious reasons is the speed of action, given that these proposals are also by emergency procedure, here I use the opportunity to present at least in this section as regards the Ministry of Finance, so colleagues in their section. I would just like to begin by thanking my colleagues from the SDP and everyone who voted today for these legal regulations adopted by this House of Commons, proposed by the Government in order to mitigate the effects of the coronary epidemic of the virus. So far, we have had two packages of legislation in March and now in this month, totaling 32 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 18 decisions and 3 conclusions are all aimed at protecting the health of citizens, and, of course, preserving jobs and preserving the liquidity of businesses so that the economy can survive at all. In this regard, because of sustainability and the state budget itself, they would point out that in this way and in this way these measures so far have been developed by the Government in terms of citizenship, and solidarity and synchronisation in the work of all components of society is more than necessary and important to emerge from this crisis as little as possible and that the economy and society can function as a whole. As regards the legal rules that came from the Ministry's domain, there were five, the General Tax Law as a roof regulation that regulates the relationship between the tax authority and the taxpayer through whose... we went to regulate all these provisions concerning the suspension of payments to ultimately write down claims all under the tax code through the General Tax Code. This is what we wanted to shorten the procedures and go line-by-line in that part of taxation, all of the norms went through the General Tax Law, and now, after today's vote of law, of course, will be accessed and drawn up by the regulations themselves, which will set the deadlines where they are needed in terms of moving deadlines, as is, for example, allowed through the amendment of the Accounting Act, but in this section through the Regulation they will be allowed to be now 30.6. or some other date due to this operationality daily because the situation is changing, they can be freely said from day to day. So it's very important to know that as we know we have the main factor or factor in this whole situation completely unknown, it's the length of the duration of this crisis, and with its length and impact on the economy. Therefore, this dosing of measures that the state budget can take or will have to pass through some other types of funding must be such that it is sustainable, that it generally exists as a state budget. As regards these provisions of some of these proposals, I would just like to mention, for example, the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act where an untaxable reward for risk-related risks to elemental disasters is proposed, I would like to remind you that we already have these provisions in norms as untaxable including health care that was previously untaxable. So I'm really sorry, and I wouldn't want it to turn out that we don't want to meet all these good demands that are being proposed here, but since the regulations that are mutually synchronised are both the Ministry of Finance and the other members of the government. Certain proposals here are somewhat contrary to some of the activities that we have today supported by the government's adoption of these legal proposals. Of course, as far as the third round that the prime minister announced in terms of measures related to citizens is concerned, I believe the next measure, and which you are now pointing out here, and I assume that this will have more to say to the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198479	Thank you. I'm asking the next representative of the government. So on your show we have three replicas, we'll do that later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198480	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. I present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in oral form on the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the amount of support to preserve jobs in activities affected by the Crown virus, the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament not accept this proposal for a conclusion on increasing the amount of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the virus virus submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives' Club. First of all, I must stress that the focus of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to protect health, as well as to preserve all jobs and fight for every job. We stand firm behind Croatian workers, and in this sense there is a measure and all the other measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken. The meeting, held on 2 April 2020, concluded on the second group of measures to help the economy resulting from an outbreak of the coronary virus and the implementation of all these measures provided 65 billion kuna, I repeat 65 billion kuna. And for the support we are talking about, support for job conservation is provided 8.5 billion kuna and according to the current projections that we have, this measure will cover 500,000 workers. In accordance with the policy of preserving jobs, the amount of support to preserve jobs in sectors affected by the coronary virus has been increased from 3,250 kuna, as you know to 4,000 kuna per worker for April and May of this year, and employers using those support will also be freed from the cost of corresponding contributions. Just to remind you, the state is also carrying the burden of paying a contribution of around 1,500 kuna. And what I must especially point out is that on today, therefore, on 7 April, we have received 84,000 requests for about 500,000 workers, and only so far have we paid 600 million kuna. You remember that some day already the employers who applied and whose application or application was valid that one day they sat down 600 million kunas in total for a job-preservation measure or support. What I must also particularly stress and remind is that both employers and workers and trade unions and the entire Croatian public have, to a great extent, praised this measure of support for the preservation of jobs. The level of support is set at 4,000 kuna in order to cover as I have said as many workers as possible, to ensure the necessary material protection, to keep people in employment and to facilitate the business of employers under special circumstances and, of course, to account for available financial opportunities. What I must also point out when we talk about support for job conservation, it also existed in the past crisis that lasted during the SDP, but I must state that at that time the support for the preservation of jobs was consumed in 4 years only 2,008 times. Well, thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198481	Time, please. We have two replicas on your exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198482	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. As for the Ministry of Justice's portfolio, we have already repeated several times that with due attention, given the circumstances in which we are working on several amendments to the current legislative proposals. First of all, the executive procedures at this point have stopped. It is our recommendation to the public notaries to make all the public notes available for deadlines that will run when this situation continues. So our recommendation is that public notebooks make executive solutions, but don't send them to the executives until they pass the circumstances caused by the COVID-19 crisis. Also in the following days, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take new measures to fully halt the executive procedures until the elements of this health threat have passed. As regards the proposal to reduce the tightening interest rate on trade relations and contracts between traders and public rights persons, we believe that, although we appreciate the proposal's intention, it was not only in this particular section that the other relations were taken into account. Also in the non-standard part, it is not explained until the end, which means this feedback and justification of such feedback in view of the situation that has arisen since the day we declared the pandemic, which is 19 March 2020. Considering everything that you have suggested the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also working on this set of legal changes that will come in a package with a resolution of laws relating to the Ministry of Justice. The question of deadlines is also a matter of several laws, with due regard to the specificity of the issue of deadlines at the Ministry of Justice, we have proposed and in a few days everything about deadlines will be available to the public in order not to question the functioning of the judicial system as a whole. I repeat, it is not time for us to speak politically now, professionally with the justice portfolio we will do everything to address the issue of blocked citizens in a few days, the issue of enforcement in a way that will stop until the circumstances that require the situation to be normal in the Croatian state continue in a way that we can work on the new Executive Law, and that we now do in this part of the crisis stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198483	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives of colleagues and colleagues. Here before I start reading what I'm going to say today given these points that I would just remind everyone present today that today is World Health Organization Day, and we can especially speak with pleasure because we all know very well that one of the founders, and surely the first president of the World Health Organization was ours. Andrija Printer. First, he would refer to the proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I must say that the legal proposal suggests that one of the parents has the right to pay wages during the temporary prevention to work for the care of a child up to 12 years of life for the closure of educational institutions and that is, if the reasons for the closure of a health or safety nature are on the burden of HZZO funds. Since the rights provided under compulsory health insurance rights are directly linked to the use of healthcare in the existence of a disease or medical indication to achieve the same, that issue cannot be regulated by the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and cannot be achieved on the burden of the means of compulsory health insurance because there is no medical indication for the same in the sense of the Health Insurance Act. The second promemory is mine, which speaks of the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the maximum or maximum monthly amount of salary compensation, on the burden of HZZO assets, isolated or self-insulated employees due to the Covida-19 epidemic. This proposal proposes to increase the maximum monthly amount of salary compensation on the burden of HZZO funds to isolated or self-insulated employees due to an outbreak of covids and to the amount of the average salary in the Croatian Republic in January 2020. The proposal is not acceptable without the provision of additional funding from the state budget and therefore we do not agree with the proposal of this law Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198485	Thank you. Please give me just stay here, and we'll go the other way because we have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, followed by his colleague Maras. And I apologize to Anka's colleague, Mr. Taritash. Just stay, so you can answer immediately that we don't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198486	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State and I join in reminding ourselves that today is the World Health Day, especially dedicated to nurses and midwives who make a really big contribution to this fight. What I want to ask you is, are you in charge of ensuring the financial stability of this system in the ministry, because after the end of the crisis, the situation will be even worse, and therefore I appeal that, at the same time with the fight against the crown of the virus, you lead and fight to save the financial stability of the health system when the coronary crisis is over. Also, since we have all received a letter from the Chamber of Health Care Professionals of a special segment of health laboratory activity, to withdraw from the e-consultation of the law currently in the debate on medical biochemical activity because it is not in conformity with all stakeholders and is a discrimination against the employees of the laboratory profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198487	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198488	I would refer to this first part, to this second part, I think we've talked a lot about it, and I think that when this entire epidemic of Corona virus passes, we'll have plenty of time to talk about it in peace. As far as the financial situation is concerned, the fact is that we are now in a special position to provide health care to all those who have suffered from Covidom-19 infection and that this is our priority because it means not only that we have to provide financial resources for the adaptation of our hospital spaces, for the opening of respiratory centres, for the unification of certain functions of intensive care, intensive therapy, the acquisition of apparatus etc., etc., so for now we in one part would say reduced health work on issues of more selective procedures, and to the maximum focus on what cannot wait, and these are clearly medical emergencyes and malignant diseases, in this respect we have maximum orientation. and technical and financial, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198489	Thank you. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198490	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, as I understand from your debate, the government, or the state, has no money to pay to allow parents to stay, at least one of the two employed parents to stay with their children at home. When we estimated what the amount would be for the next period, we came to some billions of kunas if we used that exactly all in the Republic of Croatia in such a situation, which probably wouldn't be the case. But it's amazing to me that for our children, for parents who have to work with them on their home education, who have to take care of them, try to be sure in some way not to expose them to this whole situation under the motto "stay home" the government says there's no money for it. For some other things that cost the same thing, there's money. Now, you explain to me why the government can't find the money to keep each of our parent employees at least one of them, with their children at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198491	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198492	So I can't speak on behalf of the government, I'm not Prime Minister or Prime Minister, but I can say what and repeat what I said today and today this part of the financial compensation is not part of it, not part of which would be the health insurance from which patients who need to finance the health system as a whole are financed. So he just can't get into this law. If the government has money from some other means, I can't say it right now because I'm neither Minister of Finance nor Prime Minister, but I can't get into HZZO health insurance, it's not the same, there's no place for that legal space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198493	A fellow Maras injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198494	Thank you very much. The 238th article was injured, you here Mr. Secretary of State said you couldn't answer because you're neither Prime Minister nor Minister of Finance, and why did you come here to give your opinion on it? Are you just here to convey greetings and messages or represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about this law? You must give us an answer if you are a representative of the government. Why is it not possible to secure these funds in the state budget? It's going to be budget rebalance, plan them, you can't tell us that's not possible. So I'm begging you, Mr. Vice President, they're here. Government representatives have to give us answers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198495	Thank you, so in. So just for a second, so you can't because this isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Maras. [[/Intruder: Can I answer?]] So they give answers within their means, so no injured Rules of Procedure Please don't do this anymore. [[Intruder: Within its resources.]] Third replica of Anka's colleague, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198496	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you are here on behalf of your ministry and on behalf of the Government and we expect answers from you. In my replica, I ask you to read the following fact. So we at the GLAS Club immediately applied for an emergency procedure of the law where those in self-insulation linked to the threat we have from the virus would have a fee different from that prescribed at this point. What exactly is this about? It's about two weeks of self-insulation, and we only gave that up when it started, the fee was 2,100 kuna and it remained. But there's something else, when we looked at that law, that compensation for people who decided to donate an organ to someone, so they give someone their kidney, when they're on sick leave to receive a fee of 4,400 kuna in a month. So I'm interested in your position regarding these self-insulation and organ donation charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198497	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198498	It is difficult to compare the diseases resulting from organ transplants and the issue of organ transplanters with Covida-19 infection. These are two things that in medicine simply cannot be compared because they have neither the same etiology nor the same medical I would say weight. As for financial compensation to people who are in isolation or self-insulation, it is as much as the Government has decided at the moment that they can give, and whether there will be financial resources in the coming period depending on the development of the overall situation with this pandemic that is something we will see in the future, and probably according to that, we will then be different and financially oriented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198499	Thank you. Now we have three replicas of Secretary of State Salapic. The first is a colleague of the coat of arms, you can talk slowly, and you'll make one small intervention. Thank you. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, I assume you know what I'm going to ask you, and this concerns the situation in the judiciary and the fact that despite the announcements made by the Minister of Justice Mr. Bosnjakovic in the interim building of a meeting in the basement of a historic ININE building 10 days ago, we still don't have a law that would regulate the course of court deadlines in times of crisis. And you and I both know how many problems there are in the Croatian judiciary otherwise, we know that these problems are further highlighted now in the Kovid era, we know that there are courts that are blocked because individuals in these courts have been infected, we know that the earthquake makes it impossible to use a whole series of courts buildings in Zagreb. My question is, when are you going to refer to the procedure a law that will regulate the time-limits in court proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198501	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198502	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, we are in preparation for the deadline law, and we have already repeated it several times. It's not about one law. It's about a set of laws and a very sensitive matter. What I can say responsibly, the justice system in the circumstances in which we are caused by the earthquake, Covidom-19, works so that the rule of law is not compromised at any time. As for the specifics, we are in a few days will be after Easter and with you here in Parliament discussing this. There is nothing that would endanger any citizens of the Republic of Croatia to protect their rights, and also as far as investigative procedures are concerned, the urgency of court proceedings, all courts in the Republic of Croatia are doing their job in such a way that these laws are implemented no matter where the court is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198503	Thank you. The next replica of Anka's colleague Mrak Taritas, followed by counterpart Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198504	Before starting with the replicas, distinguished secretary of state, therefore we are in this area not because of the crown but because of the earthquake that was in Zagreb. The earthquake that was in Zagreb, what we have a chance to see has done a lot of damage in courts that are basically in the lower city where there was damage. I'm curious, of course, when you're here, then you're going to give us answers to what we have a chance to ask you, which is whether it started with the damage recovery, as you've thought, whether or not with the Ministry in charge of the property you're seeing some other locations where the work of the judiciary might take place, because some resolutions will take a very long time, and we think that life can't stop and we hope that this threat will end quickly, so that life will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198505	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198506	Thank you very much. You were the Minister of Construction, and then you know that some demands are complicated. As far as the County Court building in Zagreb is concerned, the reconstruction took place immediately after the earthquake and will eventually become operational. As for replacement properties, we have found several locations that will soon be published by one of them is a building on Harambasic Street that has about 4000 square meters, there will be moved by certain judicial institutions, the Commercial Court, part of the Administrative, etc. What we've been doing certainly from the day of the earthquake to today, we've taken steps to make the entire justice system work soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198507	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198508	Thank you. Dear Secretary Salapic, please answer my very simple question, you have now announced publicly that the government will prepare a stalemate of all tasks. But from what I've come from the media, I've concluded that it's a law relating to monetary performances, but I'm asking you specifically now, does this mean that it's going to be a stalemate of all tasks, means those who go through the FINE and those who the employer takes out from pay and pay the creditor where the pension is, too, part of the pension goes to the believer, will all of this be covered by the stalemate, and will there be a delay in the flow of tight interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198509	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198510	Your Honor, I've said and I repeat three times, we've been working on everything, we've made a recommendation to the public notaries to do a stop since the day the earthquake happened and these results caused by Covidom-19. No executioner has received an executive solution, no action, no execution, no actions. Within a week, we will unblock 240,000 citizens in time of 3 months when they will be able to fully manage their incomes in full amounts. As for the others, if I did not say in advance something that needs to be discussed on professional bodies, I would not want to be hasty to make sure that at this point we stop and help as many Croatian citizens as possible at the risk of this health threat in a way that we will stop as much as possible with the executive procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198511	Thank you. Next we have two replicas to the secretary of state, Mrs. Buric. We have, first is colleagues Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic. A little intervention, so we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198512	Dear Secretary of State, you have proudly pointed out in your presentation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the first step of 3,200 kuna in the second of 4,000 kunas net and around 5,200 gross for more than 80,000 employers and about 500,000 Croatian workers. I wonder if you can give us information on how much of these 500,000 workers before the crisis and before the decision on the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had a salary greater or significantly greater than that 3,200 kuna or 4,000 kuna or whether you can tell us how many of them fell to the minimum because of this government decision and whether these employers will still feel this crisis or not, or whether it will fall on the back of those 500,000 workers. And on the other hand, I have to comment that in your comparison of support from the SDP government I have an impression, I hope I'm wrong, as if you're lucky that this crisis hit Croatia so that you can say that HDZ has given 500,000 support, which is much less than he was giving the SDP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's exactly what I noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198513	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198514	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Giujic, I'm sorry that your feeling is cheating on you, it's very cheating on you. So I'll repeat our focus is health protection and on the other hand protection of all jobs. That is why we have provided an additional 8.5 billion kuna for the support measure to preserve jobs. What I must also tell you is that today we have 84,000 demands for about 500,000 workers, and so far we have paid about 600 million kuna. We're working at five speeds and moving on intensively. I just want to say that in the HZZ which is the implementing body for this measure, officials work in two shifts, so it is really intensive and what is our main intensity and the main goal is to preserve jobs. Also facilitating employers, facilitating workers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198515	Thank you. Next replica of colleague Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198516	Mrs Buric argued in her presentation that the measures of the government of the Republic of Croatia are equally supported by employers, workers and trade unions. It's only partially true. So you've respected almost all the proposals that came from the HUP, but not a single proposal that came from the union. Moreover, an amendment to the Labour Act has been prepared in your ministry to derogate workers' rights. That's fortunately prevented at the GSV session at least for the time being. Can you tell me if you are planning to bring any changes to the Labour Law in due time or if you are planning something else that we have already heard to suit workers, rather than going towards breaking this crisis just over their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198517	Thank you. Here's an answer from the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198518	Thank you very much. So that component, which is unfortunately unpredictable, is the duration of this entire crisis related to the crown, i.e. Covid-19. Our short-term measures and the medium-term measures are presented, before you. What I am extremely pleased about is that a very high consensus has been reached, I will repeat both employers and workers and unions and the overall social community and I believe that in any case it is something that is very important at this time and because of the feelings of our citizens and the sense of security and protection in very, very difficult and challenging times. Anyway, what I also have to tell you is that we've opened absolutely all the questions, we've assumed all the questions and we're considering [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198519	Thank you. And the last set of replicas on Secretary of State Zrinasic. There you go. You don't have a replica anymore. First up, she's a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198520	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have spent a lot of time with us in this crisis, and in your opening statement, you have explained what you have done, what you have done, what you intend to do. We don't normally think in GLAS that the state should always and every time everything is very sharp and everything needs to be regulated and regulated, but when it comes to banks, when it comes to the moratorium on loans, when it comes to the lying houses that colleagues were talking about in the opening presentation, we don't think that it can just work on a deal between the resolution minister and the banks, so that banks decide, we think it should also be defined by law. Don't let it happen to us that behind this crown epidemic and the downfall of the economy, the only one who will benefit from it and come out richer will be the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198521	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198522	Here, thank you very much. I agree with your suggestion in terms of the treatment of all entities in this crisis and the financial sector mentioned. Of course, this one division of all the participants in this situation is very important in terms of balance and tomorrow the continuation of life, as well as our citizens, and economic operators, and ultimately the financial institutions that in their part this is leaning on or these former ones are leaning on them. We have had some further proceedings that financial institutions have launched against the Republic of Croatia for, due to the adoption of certain legal norms that we still have court proceedings outside the Republic of Croatia, and in that sense, the government in the first steps has been better agreed than imperative if it is possible. Of course, this tall home and all together We'll bring certain regulations that are best. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198523	Thank you. Comrade coat of arms, here's another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198524	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, of course, and my question will be focused on the moratorium on loans, you understand why. I got word today by a gentleman with his situation, a loan he took last year, a war of 3,000 kunas a month, a clear principal in this year has paid nothing back. In order to get a six-month stay, so to get a refund of $18,000, the bank will account for an interest of more than 12,000. Do you think that's okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198525	Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198526	Thank you very much. Now you've brought up one case that is probably and life-like, I really can't get into the calculations right now, but the situations that have happened so far, or today, in terms of the crisis triggered by the corona virus, they're not at all comparable, so we're going to agree, and what this crisis is about to take action is to take those measures that were unimaginable until yesterday. So in this sense, what we are discussing today and what will be discussed in the coming days and making appropriate decisions will certainly require some measures that may not have been imagined in the past, and so this question that you are now asking, indeed weighs now what is right, you are a lawyer in the given conduct in terms of the Law on Mandatory Relations and other measures that, in certain exceptional circumstances, are necessary to take, this is something that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198527	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198528	Thank you, Vice President. So, first of all, I would like to say that all state secretaries here represent the government and I can't say that they don't represent the government, if they don't represent the government, they shouldn't have come here, she should have come as Prime Minister and Minister. Why is the suspension of the moratorium on loans of 3 months not sufficient? Because people took credit for example. in tourist activity extended either quality or expanded their accommodation facilities. This season is gone, it is clear to all of us, because the crown must stop not only in Croatia it must stop throughout Europe or around the world for tourists to go at all. Those people already know. What does it mean to them if after three months they have to pay off the loan, and they don't make money because this year they won't make any money. So, come on, let's approach the reasonable problem, reasonablely. So this proposal of ours to be for a year until they start working, until they start working is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198529	Thank you. Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198530	Thank you very much for asking. The measures launched by the Government during March and relating to the Coronal Virus, of course, are seen in terms of other Member States that are economically stronger and more powerful in terms of the construction of measures concerning the state budget. In this part and other measures that are not directly related to the state budget, of course the government has watched other Member States do so since we are EU members. Indeed, it is one graduation and degree of measures, so that the synchronicity and solidarity of all participants is now extremely important and not only as a flossula, and not only as a flossula, but also as an necessity to overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198531	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the proposal, actually, a set of laws. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, so she is a colleague of Grozdana Peric's. Here you go, after the intervention, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198532	Respect for the esteemed vice president, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, first and foremost to the Government, and we must always respect all the good proposals that are possible to always be accepted and incorporated into even better legal proposals. What we cannot accept at this time, which is this set of your laws, the SDP proposal, primarily because, as you know, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, and unfortunately, the earthquake that took place on the 22nd of this month and last month, so the two situations that were in any scenario were actually amazing. When the government agreed on those first March measures, it was only thinking about what would happen and what would be the consequences of the pandemic, and you know very well that when any measure is taken that all facts must then be considered, all the effects that would be and how such a situation would reflect both on the economy and on private lives, and in the first place on the health of the population or the whole nation. Therefore, when such measures are taken, they must be very well thought out. You have to take full parameters as if you're doing a new budget because all of the details you have to take care of. So in that first set, the measure covered what we had previously adopted, and we cannot say that it was very bad at that moment. The second set of measures came after this not even 15 days and today we adopted it and you must admit that there are many factors involved that have helped and calmed the whole situation and the uncertainty that has been caused by these two disasters. In the first part of the fee itself was 3,250 plus contributions, now it is 4,000 plus contributions, and in the meantime you see that there have been changes in that everything, every employer who fired a part of the worker precisely because of this uncertainty that he will be able to continue to work, has been given the opportunity to bring these employees back, and at this point there are 13,600 employees who then exercise the right, so they do not interrupt the employment relationship and return to the system of work and have the right to compensation of 4,000 kuna increased for the contributions that are once again on the burden of the state budget and what is important to say that the weight of these measures is over 8.5 billion kuna. At this point, we know that over 60,000 taxpayers, or entrepreneurs, have requested this measure and that more than 600 million kunas have already been paid. Very soon, so in the month, and only a practical application was made. What you should also say is that in, that citizenship and what you have in certain legal requirements is actually a request for a moratorium and so on. credit obligations are all understood, but at this point what we have brought is that through the amendments to the General Tax Law we have regulated exactly the possibility of these obligations being suspended temporarily, to stop the implementation and for all other public duties, and it is certainly always a question of what, after 3 months or after 6 months. And it's perfectly justified that we all think about it because each one of us has or has or has credit obligations and certainly doesn't care when that obligation arrives. However, let the government do and do these, these two packages that will be adopted within a very short period of time, and a new measure that will allow citizens to be so much more peaceful and that it can function in this way. It's already mentioned today what happens and when it's going to happen. In fact, it's very important how long it's going to take this particular measure that's caused by Covido-19. And what remains secretly to us in the following certainly 7, 8 if not for many years, which is these measures that will need to be done to help citizens rebuild apartments, houses, historical sights, churches, etc. and we will certainly have much help from EU funds. What we are also talking about when we talk about a set of these measures is about paying VAT, I have already mentioned that in the VAT projection for this year there were over 50 we expect revenue 55 and some billion kuna and now after this everything that happens pandemic, there is no tourism, there is no consumption, and besides these elemental disasters, then we can assume how much impact all this will have on the revenue side of the budget that cannot expect so much charge and which will have to think very much about a lot of other sources of funding. We must not forget that it is already in previous measures that it is possible for companies to private up to 7.5 million traffic or over 7.5 with a 20 per cent or more drop in traffic to 50%, that the possibility of partly prolonging, reprogramming, to write off part of the claim and debt, therefore a large part of these measures has already been consumed and I think that the Government has responded in a very good and rapid way about all of this. What you just insisted on, and this secretary of state expected to answer your question, so it really can't happen if something isn't caused by disease, infection, etc. that pay compensation cannot then be compensated from a source of compulsory health insurance, then there are other measures because you know it is illegal. So you can't prejudge something, so you can't be sick, but there was a measure for it, and there's a way that you can pay off on a different basis, and another way that can be helped, and eventually it's accepted and we finally adopted it. So when we look at the total of these measures that are now over 45 billion kuna plus 20 billion that have reached commitments from previous periods, then you see that the set of these measures is over 9.6% of our GDP, which is certainly more than many other European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198533	Thank you, thank you. We're continuing on behalf of the clubs. Next registered counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. A colleague of Zekanovic does not have and in accordance with Article 233 he loses the right to talk about this item of the agenda for, throughout the entire debate. We continue with the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, colleagues of Grmoje and colleagues of Bulj shared the debate. First one's a colleague of the Grmoi. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198534	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we warned with that first package of government measures that these measures would not be enough, we said that we needed to go to the write-off, not to the delays, and the government listened to us. At that time, no amendment to the opposition was accepted. Not because these amendments were bad because it proved later that the government was all what we were saying at the Most but also other colleagues actually accepted, but they weren't accepted just because they came from the ranks of the opposition. Today we have the same situation, the second, second round of the Government package, all the amendments we have given have been rejected and it can be concluded that in this crisis situation the opposition shows unity and constructiveness, and by ruling again shows one party boredom. This is what grieves all over this story, and in particular the sadness that those first to be thought of, to whom the first should be intended package they will come third in a row, in the third round after Easter. Our seniors, our pensioners, our unemployed, our blocked and completed. MOST first thinks of you or think of you first, not as the last, as those on which the measures will be taken after the Easter. We asked the Croatian Parliament to continue the session, to support itself or our proposal because we too have a proposal on a moratorium on loans and performances or a proposal from colleagues from the SDP, but we do not even ask for that. Give you your ruling proposal, give your government colleagues your proposal we will gladly raise your hand to him. Our citizens who are the most endangered in our society deserve a peaceful and peaceful Easter, deserve a resurrection without a cold, a resurrection without fear, a Easter in joy with their families. So much for me, and hopefully here you'll change your mind, there's still time, the president of the assembly can call and tomorrow's session of the assembly, the government can give its measures and we'll be happy to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198535	Please stop the time for a moment, thank you. A little intervention. Thank you, ma'am or miss. Here you go, fellow Bull, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198536	My colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representatives of the government, why am I partly disappointed? Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said so too, but it is noticeable in the general public that the opposition is making constructive proposals, and that the Government simply rejects them, and anything proposed constructively by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the opposition accepts it. These measures that the MOST has also given, and we are now discussing the SDP measures especially about the most endangered, about the postponement of the credit, about the delay of the performance, that's what the first tribal is about, the first measure. These people are the most endangered right now. No one would forgive these people, but it would be delayed if they weren't responsible for this crisis. And what he would point to here, today was a vote on the results of Croatian politics, poor conduct of Croatian agriculture, bad leadership, so I gave the law on the ban on the sale of agricultural land. The government rejected it, both foreign and legal, foreign and legal individuals. It is the government of the Republic of Croatia, the honourable representatives of the government, the citizens, if you are looking, who refused to sell agricultural land, refused my proposal to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. And the agricultural land, is, right now, agriculture has said that the wrong policies we had mainly towards agriculture so that it disappoints me that the opposition is constructive at this point, accepts all the proposals that you government representatives make, and you reject all of ours from the opposition, but these are proposals for the benefit of the citizens. Well, a lot of the suggestions I've made for SDP hasn't voted for them, but this is a good proposal, I'll support it. You would hardly accept any amendment, any proposal from the opposition. Why? Because you're using both the crisis and this health and economic crisis exclusively for the PR, and that's not good, everyone here is equal, we're all at risk. Thus, when we are discussing these laws and speaking now with us at Easter today, he represented the council in this crisis, of course, that they should be much, much more constructive from the position of power. If we're looking for a delay, because now it's SDP law, and MOST suggested it, the MOST Club and this and other colleagues in the opposition don't see any reason why you wouldn't accept it and why the government didn't put that measure into emergency procedure and we would vote again today or come tomorrow. And not now for Easter you leave that space, the greatest Christian holiday I congratulate from this place I wish all happy and blessed Easter, the greatest Christian holiday to all our citizens. For days, it was broken whether markets should be opened, so of course the triba with all the respect measures because it is more likely to be infected by the coronary virus in a closed area trade chain, but foreign products are sold there, and domestic products were mostly sold in the markets. Here I hear the announcement now and it is my pleasure that after a long, long application will open up markets that should not have been closed at all, but with all the criteria of respect that the Tribals would respect as in trade chains, but better to buy Italian pomidores, it is better to buy strawberries than this Spain than Vrgoračka, it is better to buy meaning those products. Here, I would say in the end that I am disappointed that we are not continuing to work while all groups of unemployed, retired, particularly completed and blocked and, of course, all these measures he has proposed in this case suggest opposition to what we are leaving. The government could have made this simple, it could have made a proposal for its additions and we could have settled it in this big week before it meant Big Thursday and Big Friday. In this way we would actually come to a solution and a peaceful Easter. In the end, you would wish all the citizens a happy and blessed Easter, hopefully if there are measures here, you see 151 of us here that on this greatest Christian holiday and Croatian believers will have the possibility under all measures either within the sacral churches, either outside churches, here you in the government or in front of churches or in the courtyards will be allowed at least to share, not all, part of the people, the believers can unfortunately have the opportunity to participate in this greatest Christian meanings on Easter, the greatest Christian holiday and the sacrament. And once again, I wish you all a happy and blessed Easter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198537	Thank you. We are continuing to debate on behalf of the club of MPs, next is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, in front of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Taritash. So five minutes dark, five minutes Taritate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198538	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the Crown Virus or Covida-19, no matter what we call it, has caused major changes in our lives. One of these changes will also be seen on the greatest Christian holiday of Easter that we will certainly not be working in a circle of some broader family because everyone is staying home and I really respect that if you are guarding yourself, guarding someone else and keeping everyone around you and we are taking care of it. We sit here at a distance, we don't shake hands, we take care of each other, and when we talk to someone, we use space. And that's all the coronary virus has changed, but something hasn't changed. It did not change that when it comes to opposition proposals that they will get their place in the Croatian Parliament in the worst time, so now not even the evening term, but after the vote, this package of laws won and did not change that when the opposition gives amendments, that these amendments, no matter how reasonable they may be, how helpful they might even be, that they refuse to explain themselves. I'm just going to refer to me as the favorite amendment that was rejected today by our club, we've given an amendment that is related to office leaders and tourism that, because of the Corona virus or Covida-19, they no longer need to know foreign language. So when the coronary is a virus or a Covida-10, those who run offices, they don't have to know foreign language with tourism. And now we say the amendment of my people so don't do crazy things, it has nothing to do with it, and it's being rejected, and it's quite serious, the secretary of state has explained why it's happening, if you're asking me why, I don't know, but it's been pretty serious. But let's get back to this subject. The first set of measures that was in March, I must admit that I'm always somehow trying to understand, so whether or not I agree with that first set of measures that we can call March I understood. We didn't know what the scales were, no matter what the crown was rolling behind the hills when it came to Europe, someone got a little better, someone got a little worse. It was not a willingness to bring some options, or some variants, because it did not know how long this would take. So I had this first set of measures that way. The second set of measures I called April 1 0, because with the certainty that a second set of measures will come in April which we will call April 2 0, all those who spoke can't go in just a delay you have to write off, you have to define something. We spoke as opposition MPs, they spoke to the businessmen, they all said, and in that second set of measures, some things were heard. And you saw that at the vote that was today and that was 130 of us, I don't remember when we were, the last time we were 130 when there was a set of measures or a little less of those Marchs, it just means that after all, the MPs, no matter how we were perceived, are responsible. We are responsible for what we are saying, we are responsible for certain crisis situations and this responsibility and opposition parliamentary deputies are really ready to take over on their backs and no matter what you're discussing and with some things you disagree with and some things you warn us that now the situation is next, which is that we need to support and support a set of measures, but for tango we need two. Tango doesn't go to one, so no matter how you turn around, but the other one's just like that, he's gone to sleep somewhere, and he's waiting somewhere. That's what I'm saying between, so the opposition suggests something, and on the other hand it's a government that's pretty hard to say that these things can't be accepted, but then at some headquarters conferences that I can really say that it seems to me that it's doing a good job, it's using time to deal with some political inexperiences, which is not good. So, at these moments, the opposition has made clear everything from the government that comes, and we conclude that it is good that it will help the citizen, we will support the citizens, but we also think that the time when the opposition proposes something, so sit down, talk, let's talk. And it's not even a problem that then the government in some package April 2 0, May 1 0 or that took what was there and said here we took and said one sentence is the subject of a common agreement. As long as the crown lasts, it should listen to experts and they somehow predict how it will grow, fall, linearly and everything else. What will be the consequences of the Corone or Covida-19 on the economy that no one, regardless of the experiences they have, can predict. It seems to us that this crisis is to be used for a few things. The first thing to take advantage of is a little look at our laws being written. They're being written unreasonablely, written in a way that we don't want them to be understood by anyone, complicated, complicated in procedures, we tend to complicate where we shouldn't. Maybe one of the situations, or the outcome of this crisis, that we all think about it together a little bit. I will only take one example, of course I live in the City of Zagreb, until the City of Zagreb would care, an example of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the behaviour of the City of Gas. People closed the gas in houses that weren't even damaged by the earthquake because they were well built. The gas station said okay, to let you gas out, you have to come to us, you have to fill in 3 or 4 requirements in the context of the crown only you come to us maybe someone has, so we'll split it up and pay 3,000 kuna and then when you do all that, then we'll make a list of priorities and we'll go and release that gas. My people, if it weren't true, it would be for one of those comedies or soap operas, but that's true. So, the first time I heard it from a guy in the city gas station, I was sitting at home, I thought I heard something wrong, I heard something. So, from this crisis, maybe we could come out smarter because look at the e-citizen working neatly, everything works through emails, let's be something smarter and try to see the regulations and see what we regulate and how we regulate it. Another thing we should be able to get out of this crisis, we should be clearly wondering what kind of economy we want for Croatia, whether we want to hang on to tourism, whether we want to only hang on to imports and certain services, or if we think something else is going on here. Today we voted for the amendments to the Agriculture Act, which in the sense of no one at all is disputed, but in the debate we're the Minister of Resorna was with us, we said something we might need to take well-meaningly, we think the time has come when agriculture is for a serious reset. Something about that farm and the way we work is wrong. This is the moment when we can reset ourselves, we can take the green plan that the EU has made regarding climate change, more climate change after 2 months we no longer mention ourselves, and two months ago our mouths were full of climate change, see what the green threshold for agriculture is, and maybe it's a strategy for the development of Croatia's agriculture with some adjustments. From this set of laws, it is especially important that the law which speaks of a delay is related to loans. No, and that's what I said to the secretary of state, and I repeat, and now for the rest of this pay phone, don't let this crisis that's hit us all, we still don't know what the scales are, the ones that come out unscathed or richer, be banks, like it was in every crisis. Let's try to really take care of our citizens and the problems they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198539	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The last reported debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives was a debate reported by counterpart Tomislav Žagar, in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198540	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear State Secretarys and State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. The HSU Club, independent representatives, New Politics and SNAGA will support this set of laws proposed by the SDP Club because one member of our club participated actively in the preparation of these laws. Why is that? Well, this set of laws, first of all, all those measures that the government, which we voted today, are vertical and horizontally expanding. Vertically in the amount of compensation and assistance to be provided, and horizontally to most of our citizens who are not covered by these measures that we adopted here at HS today. Namely, the secretary of state here when she initially explained why the government rejects these bill proposals, I apologize, that's a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club said two important dates, one date was March 19th when the pandemic was declared and the second date was March 22nd when the earthquake was in Zagreb. Why do I mention these two laws? We can see that this process is extremely turbulent and dynamic and that the government, at least so far, has not shown the right way of planning, planning future activities, but is exclusively used for what is otherwise used when steering or managing, requires some kind of feedback, so on 23rd of the earthquake in Zagreb, the 23rd of March center has made a decision to ban leaving the place of residence. Watch out, places of residence, and then this caused a huge amount of passes that were issued because we have 6756 seats in Croatia. That picture shows how things work out only when they come up, and little is planned in advance. Of course, respecting the fact that it's hard to do things and plan ahead. The second thing that matters, as far as these measures are concerned, was not a great situation before the outbreak in the Republic of Croatia. So, even before the outbreak occurred, 140 thousand people were at the Employment Service, but we must not forget the large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had left the Republic of Croatia before that and hired in other countries. We also see that these citizens are returning to the Republic of Croatia, they have no place to go but to the Employment Service, and since the adoption, since the announcement, since the crisis occurred, we see that a large number of citizens have already ended up at the Employment Office. It is true that these government measures can be re-employed and re-received, this amount provided for in the measures. It is seen here that this is a serious, serious crisis and that what the secretary of state has highlighted, and what is the most important parameter in the whole crisis, which is the time of this crisis, which no one can predict how long it will last. So we have an extremely dynamic and busy period in which entrepreneurs will have to respond to the challenges ahead. That's why I think this set of measures is good, but the government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact, the Ministry of Finance, the minister, will have to respond as soon as possible to what kind of rebalancing is expected of the budget in the future. To that question, I think it's going to be the biggest, the biggest challenge on this issue is going to be. And what is crucial is why these measures should be supported. The government will certainly think of them if it does not support them, because although the announcement of this third set of measures will be directed towards citizens, so that it will not be late, because as I said, citizens who are already at the Employment Service, everyone who, whether earlier, has now gone to the Bureau, all who have had problems serving their obligations, especially loans, there are, of course, students, pensioners who find it difficult today. It's hard for them for a number of reasons, and mostly for the fact that their pensions are small, and then this crisis hit them. For all these citizens, therefore, measures should be taken to facilitate and enable them to live and overcome this difficult situation. When GDP is growing, the biggest benefit is those who are richer, but even when GDP falls, it breaks over the back of the poorest, and therefore these measures are very important. In the last debate there when we had in the INA building I mentioned it, I will mention again, that, not by chance, and the financial sector will not hesitate to come out of this process uncircumcised, and in fact they will try to come out uncircumcised in all ways, and that is what the credit rating agency which has reduced Croatia by one degree. Their assessment that GDP would fall by 5%, this could mean according to that rough, budget that the unemployment rate would be 2.5% at least and that is 50,000 people without jobs and these are the things that we will have to answer because it is about citizens who will be out of work, employers of course who will have to close their trades or their businesses and because of these things we need to think about measures as soon as possible and bring them forward. That's why I think this set of measures is good, we'll support them at the club, and I'm telling the government to think hard if he doesn't want to accept the proposals coming from the opposition, and we see that this is the case, so let the public, as soon as possible, have a set of measures that will allow citizens to overcome this crisis and live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198541	Thank you, too. We ended the discussion on behalf of the clubs. We're continuing an individual debate. I'd like to ask Miss for a little intervention, and then a colleague of mine, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198542	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the adoption of this second package, I believe that most of these legal proposals on behalf of the SDP Club will be implemented through the regulation and the former provisions of certain laws. Likewise, certain legislative proposals are not intended to say so to the address to which they might be said, but what I think is also why I came forward for an individual debate and wanted to share with you, and also to point out one problem that first and foremost my colleague Lalovac and I have been talking about in this assembly for a long time, which is a liquidity problem. And this directly binds to this law on credit forgiveness because when we talk about liquidity, then citizens are also liquid and liquid. So, did this legal proposal cover all the obligations that Croatian citizens have. Not only do Croatian citizens have only loans, they also have a commitment to leasing societies and a commitment to card houses, a commitment to insurance companies, a commitment to teleopers and a number of other obligations. Therefore, this law, and I think that the Government is thinking about it, must be complete and must cover all aspects of the obligations that our citizens have. Also, colleagues and colleagues should not forget that over the past few years Croatian entrepreneurs from craftsmen have had an extremely high investment cycle, investing money in economic activities. And many of them have found themselves in this package of measures that the government has proposed, which is to pay salaries and not have to pay pension and health for the simple reason, whether because of the provisions of the headquarters, whether because of this or that reason they simply stopped doing business. And we're talking about a moratorium on loans, so we just have to put all of them in those packages. And that's why the law deserves far wider scope, deserves far more attention for reasons, if we don't approach it that way she thinks we're going to make a lot of trouble. The other thing, from a month ago and a few days ago when there was a law on insurance in the assembly I repeat about the responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. To be honest, I expected that both business banks and Leasing companies and insurance companies would come out with some package of their own when this crisis started with one single goal to protect those who bring them profits. Because they, if those who took up credit with them who made insurance policies or who took something to Leasing if they can't pay them first, put them in trouble. So they should be in the interest of finding that first package. And I think the government is talking in that direction. We have heard that the CNB has already brought about certain changes that they can react to, and if in such a way we could approach this problem which I believe is crucial to the state's funding problem in the coming months, then the law would be comprehensive. And it's a good idea for a colleague from the SDP Club to propose it as a law, but this bill of yours solves only one small segment, just one small segment. Because what difference does it make whether you have to pay the loan or whether you need a war lying to society or whether you need to pay the war to the insurance company, no. It's your obligation that if, and what I think is still important at this point, if you work normally, you do business, you get paid, then this measure doesn't have to apply to you. This measure should apply to those who do not function normally, who do not receive salaries and ultimately we as a social state must take care of our citizens. And I'm saying I think the government will come out with a package that will certainly take care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, without intending to tell you, but colleagues and colleagues you've only dealt with this law one little segment, and that's why I wanted to share this debate with you because I think Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198543	We have one replica, please you can stay. He's a friend of Sagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198544	Dear fellow Shuker, I agree with you, it's true it would be very good for the banks to decide to negotiate with their clients to see which way it goes. However, this so you know from experience doesn't work, it just doesn't work, it's about positions of power, banks are extremely powerful compared to their clients, especially citizens. And actually this, as far as I understand it, is going towards the weakest, the most vulnerable, because with them banks are hardly going to negotiate. It is therefore necessary to define legal frameworks to create moratories on commitments, but not in such a way as to further accumulate interest later, but to simply buy that time for these people, so that while they overcome the crisis, they can continue to serve their obligations. Of course you're right when you talk about other obligations, like, according to the Leasing societies and everyone else, but I think it's from the position that it's hard to expect that banks will work that way. They still need to be legally forced to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198545	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198546	Comrade Sagar, that you listened carefully to what they said, I said that legally, if we need to, we need to solve everything. And the normal thing is that we have to think about those who are the most vulnerable, that we have to react here, but I repeat, everyone in their segment is important. And I guess the banks burned after that big crisis 10 years ago and how great they are. The placements had to be converted into non-refundable claims and that they would think and think about how to save those who ultimately bring them profits and repay loans and pay interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198547	Thank you. The next debate is a debate from fellow Pernar. And a little intervention from my colleague Pernar. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198548	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The solutions this government has for the current crisis are not adequate and will not solve it, and I will explain why. The main problem is with loans, by putting on a moratorium, the cause of the problem is not solved. The problem is that these loans will ultimately need to be paid back and that many people living on tourism during the summer months are expensive money to pay off the loan for the rest of the year. However, in this case, what will happen? Moratorium will last, for example. For the next few months, they'll run out of money from the season, it's just a season, for example. failed, which is very likely to happen and suddenly end this extraordinary state of Beroshevo. Yeah, this isn't gonna last forever. And what happens when it goes away? And then the banks will say now, look, there's no state of emergency, the loans have to go back, and the revenues from this summer are gone. Where are these people gonna get your loans back from? They've got nowhere to go. Another problem, all the time this moratorium, interest is accounted for. So are you aware of what that means? Where are people gonna get those interest back from? The legislator doesn't care. Here's an identical example of the work. The government says we're introducing a moratorium to execution. And what does that mean in practice? Well, in practice, it means that the same scheme goes on the same way. It's not going to stop now, it's just going to bring down that waterfall, as soon as these measures are cut off, and the reason for this whole executive hell is that the performances are actually given to public notebooks, which they can account for whatever fees and what ultimately, you have enormous costs of the execution, so people don't necessarily kill the debt for water of 200 kuna, but they get killed by the costs of the execution. They're getting killed by the fee that FINA's taking. FINA is taking an enormous fee. Did the government solve that question? No, I don't. The government neither solves the issue of interest, or there are no interest moratories, nor does it think about what will be left of income with people this summer, and when the moratorium passes, it will have to. Yes, when the moratorium passes and this state of emergency passes, it will have to continue to repay the loan, it has nowhere to go. The government doesn't care about that. This solution that the government has, you know what these solutions are? These are short-term solutions. Maybe the government has a solution to the election of parliamentarys at 9:00. I mean, what's it gonna be in 10, 11, 12, 1, 2, 3. Mesa, 5 months. Next year? And the government doesn't think about it. This is one crazy way, this policy has no vision whatsoever. Also, there's one more thing I want to say. If the population is not divided into young and old, both healthy and sick, and it will go with a general quarantine story that is being imposed on us at all times, it will take a very long time for a critical number of people in the population to get infected and get over the crown. Yeah, that's the problem. It's going to take a very long time, instead of being, because young people, they have no mortality at all, 0.1%. Instead of allowing young people to get over, get immunity, a critical part of the population to have resistance to this virus and end with quarantine measures, quarantine measures will be delayed indefinitely. And you know what kind of solution they're going to offer? Then he'll offer as a solution, what? The vaccine. And then they'll tell my people, we have to protect the weaker. But you all need to be vaccinated. And what about those who refuse to vaccinate? He'll be in trouble again. I don't see where this policy leads, I can't understand people who support the general instead of selective quarantine. I don't know how many more months they're planning on keeping the whole people in this agony because people are mentally firing and they can't take this condition anymore. But nobody cares about that, and half the country's on the minimal, which is what those who are unemployed and who were planning to do, seasons, have nothing to live on, so nobody cares. The state doesn't regulate it at all, I asked Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic, what about those who don't have a fee from the Stock Exchange? What do they live on now that they can't find a job? And Plenkovic says, Alardovic will find a solution. I don't see him yet. When will this solution come? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198549	Thank you, colleague Pernar. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Sasa Djujic, please a little intervention, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198550	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues from the SDP. So here's how much the government is interested in our measures and our proposals, this shows that there aren't any MPs in the hall right now except for the SDPs. So, they're full of the mouth of the community and all that... Now you're in, now you're in [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you're in. ... [[Intruder: Mr. Pernar.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198551	Mr. Pernar, Mr. Pernar Mr. Djujic, Mr. Pernar. [[You're in from the outside now.]] Mr. Pernar Mr. Pernar. ... [[Intruder: Yes.]] Mr. Pernar, a reminder [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm not gonna throw him out, but I'm giving him a warning, this behavior is not appropriate. [[Don't kick him out because then he'll say you threw him out on purpose so I can say there's no one but us.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198552	Here, I welcome fellow Pernar who just returned and fellow Shucker who has now entered, thank you very much. So what I'm saying is, this is already the 3rd package of measures SDP is proposing. 3. package, so after the first two of which none of them were adopted, none of them were accepted. So we propose certain solutions and certain measures that the Government then partially accepts after a while. The same thing is with this package. So here and just now, my colleague Schucker said in his debate that we're covering a small part, a small segment of the problem when we're talking about a moratorium on loans, that we haven't fully worked it out and worked it out, let's just say that the government is going to cover that part in its future action, and it's going to work it out together. But he didn't tell his colleague Shuker that our proposals, for example, were not working. He didn't say, because he knows that he's part part of it, part of it's good. I listened well, I heard it all right. Well, what's the problem, you know what my colleague Shucker is? We are proposing these packages because the ruling HDZ has not included the opposition since the first day of the conversation. You didn't turn it on. You can nod all you want. You're not. You are sitting alone with yourself and this second package of government measures that was now, which was delayed in part you presented to your coalition partners, and you did not find it appropriate to invite opposition representatives to this conversation, you did not. Because you don't need us, because you don't care what we have to say, and that shows this hall here today. Empty, just you fellow Shucker, here you are, and colleague Pernar. And my colleague Pernar. ... So when I don't have anyone, how am I supposed to, what am I gonna mention about Sanader when he's not here? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What am I going to say? Who? I mean, what am I going to say, here, a colleague I don't know, who? Who? You tell me, fellow Shuker, when you're alone. There's no one here. Nobody cares. The SDP is a colleague here, is, is, we've had enough. So, look, we suggest, you don't listen, you don't care. Another thing again, so it's not the devil that none of our proposals are right. We are in this package of measures, I am now not going to enter into each individual, but colleagues Bernardic and Lalovac said in the introduction, this is the third package that includes citizens, citizens who are also the most socially endangered of whom the government has not considered at the moment. I'm not saying he won't think in his third package. But I don't understand why the opposition isn't involved. You say, "Here's a good suggestion, and you didn't even bother to fix it." So today we wouldn't be discussing this or counting here if Prime Minister Plenkovic's first day had called all the presidents of the opposition parliamentary parties and said, let's hear, let's all heads together, who has any suggestions. So maybe one part of our measures would be included already in the government's package and instead, and all the time you're talking here, make suggestions, thank you, but that's not enough. It's not good, but we're going alone. We only represent coalition partners. Gentlemen, this concerns the entire country, both left and right and all citizens, not just HDZ and its coalition partners. And for that, here we appeal to you, let us in, so we can't wait until you remember something, until you remember citizens with credits. Well, we had to propose a law. We don't have another model. Our representatives didn't sit with the government's representatives at the meeting so they could make some kind of suggestion there, so here you are, fellow Shuker, you complete it and you say, and you made a good proposal. Here, there's only the ones with the loans, there's no lying, there's no insurance houses, there's no such thing as that, so we could do a whole proposal together. And this is how we have to make suggestions when you don't listen to us, you don't want to hear us. You're saying it's not time for politicizing, and it's yesterday as a charger. Plenkovic, Sanader, Bozinovic, in his uniform on the fifth, 5th day in a row, calls counterpart Bernardic and SDP. That's, what's that? That's not politicizing? You've got suggestions, you've got suggestions, we'll respect everything, you don't respect anything today. You haven't accepted any of our amendments today. So what exactly are all our suggestions stupid? Well, I didn't realize it from your discussions that we're proposing nonsense or stupidity, but even praise it, but look, what, we're enough for ourselves. That's not good. We're not at war, but we're not in any ordinary condition. And not to mention, this session procedure, first in that building of INA over there, and today here and limiting replicas and speeches, I hope that from the 15th time we get back to our building things will go back to normal. I don't have any more time, but I expect we'll get back to normal and start listening to us as an opposition. Because, look, this situation will pass, I hope as soon as possible. Maybe in a month, maybe in two. Maybe in 3 and then they'll [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to file accounts. [[Intruder: Stay here.]] So it won't be binco Support, we can all the time... [[We have 3 replicas.]] Okay, thank you, here, just to finish the thought. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198553	Thank you. A colleague of Hajdukovic's. Here's the first replica, the second one's a colleague of Shucker's, then a colleague of Jagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djujic, you're talking about a call for community, this lack of respect for the opposition, so I'd just like to go over there and say that HDZ calls for consensus and for community only when it suits them. And you know how they experience that unity and consensus? "Here you can back us up." And we are not criticizing or criticizing, nor criticizing, but making concrete suggestions. Yeah, maybe some of our proposals aren't perfect, but that's why, in the debate, we should all come up with the best proposals to protect our citizens. And.../incomprehensible... when we do that to HDZ, they reject it. And therefore, I fear that these measures will eventually turn out to be flawed in a lot of things, that they will change many times, that they will contribute to the uncertainty of the labour market and the market in general in the economy and we will actually produce exactly the counterproductive effect of what we wanted, which is to protect citizens, workers, but also entrepreneurs and economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198555	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198556	Comrade Hajdukovic, of course, that all our measures are not perfect, such as the Government's all measures. But two heads are smarter than one, and that's what we've been trying to do all along to deal with this crisis, not to have the HDZ running its story. Well, look, they dropped the Parliament, that debate in the INA about that package last time was nothing, what pro-forma, out there at the President of the Parliament saying you have the right to 2 replicas per club. So they don't even want to listen to us. They won't listen to us today. So it's not going anywhere. So, we should, this is not a HDZ crisis and its coalition partners, but all of Croatia's citizens, and we must have the opportunity to talk together and all the best, every party, every political option that has in its ranks to make it easier for the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198557	Thank you. Next replica, fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198558	Thank you very much. Well, it's not good to say things that aren't right. I'll use the softest expression, if my colleague Bauk were here, he could confirm to you that the Prime Minister has summoned all these leaders and opposition parties and clubs and has exposed them to measures to discuss. So much for that, that's the facts. Secondly, I think my personal debate today was about discussing the subject. Third thing, colleague Djujic, we've known each other for a long time. I was expecting, since I'm the only MP from the opposition here, that you're going to try to put in some arguments to convince me that something is not contained in the existing laws, that I did something wrong. You've been talking all along about how someone like this, how you're somebody like that. Okay, that's what you said, that's what your colleagues will say, but explain why your laws are good, I even said that one law and missed a target because those funds can't pay off what they're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198559	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198560	And fellow Shuker, I expected you to convince us why our laws are not good and that the government did better than us and that we should give up. But on the contrary, you said that one segment did well in this moratorium law on loans, so what do I have to explain to you that this is a good move? Well, you know it better than I do, you said it yourself. In fact, you've spread the story that we haven't covered the Leasing Houses, that we haven't included insurance companies, so here's what we talked about before, we could have given one quality whole law together. And when you said we didn't sit down, that we didn't, that, uh, Comrade Bauk, here he came now, that the Prime Minister invited them to that first package of measures that the entrepreneurs and all welcomed to the knife together. This last vote we voted here today at noon you presented to coalition partners on Thursday and on Friday came to debate after a hasty procedure in HS, i.e. in the basement of the INA on 2 representatives per club. And we couldn't make a contribution, no one listened to us, no amendment was adopted, today Here, who's listening to us? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Who are we talking to?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198561	Thank you. Last replica, colleague Sagar Comrade Sagar, here you go. [[Intruder: My emotions are working.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198562	Dear colleague Djujic. So, you said it right. The situation is quite complex, and when you say that we're going back to normal, then you should keep in mind that this return will be extremely difficult. It is clear that there will be a danger to the health of citizens and that at that moment citizens will start living normally. But back to those positions that weren't good before this crisis, I'm talking about economic situations where citizens were and the economy is going to be difficult to achieve, let alone what we planned before this crisis in terms of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. So it's very important that the government listens to you now, that it really listens to all the good advice because at this point we're just responding to what's happening right now. We are not thinking about what will happen in the future, and in these measures there are many proposals that will affect the future, and so we need to think about what will be in the future because we already need to know what it is, what kind of rebalancing the government will have to propose soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198563	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198564	My debate was like this because five minutes is really little to explain and to explain each of these measures. I think some of them are making their own argument. But why was I talking about this debate? That's because I'm afraid, and I see it, that the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic don't care what we think or care about. There's one proof today. So today he's talking about this law on tracking. He talks, he says, well, you gave all the data to Facebook and Google, so why don't you give it to HDZ? Why don't you give us, too, even so they follow you, so let's follow you. And then the journalists tell them, but it wasn't adopted in the Parliament, today it's, it's a decision to go to another reading, then he says, and well, it's not today, it's going to be adopted next week. So here's how HDZ sees us as the most representative or legislative body in the country. And for that reason I appeal once again to HDZ and to the government, please include representatives of the opposition, listen to us, tell us, this is stupid, this is smart, but we are going together to look for solutions for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198565	Thank you. Next individual debate... The next individual debate is a debate by colleagues from Peja Grbina, here are some interventions. Here you go, buddy Grbin, here you go, thank you. Careful fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198566	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will concentrate on two things that matter to me personally, and I also believe that they are important to a large number of Croatian citizens, and one especially to people from the area I come from, from Istria and the entire Adriatic coast. The first thing is, of course, a moratorium on loans. Dear fellow Shuker, saying just before me, said the law proposed by the moratorium on loans was missing. My answer is, okay, but unlike the government's proposal, at least he exists. The government has not proposed such a missing proposal, the government has proposed nothing. The government has only left it to banks and bankers that, on the basis of their own decision, their own goodwill, their own profit assessment, solve the problem of postponing the loan with their debtors. And what does it look like in practice? A few people came to me, for example, one lady has a loan, she's been paying him off for a while, 3,000 kuna, exactly 2700 kn per month. She will have to pay 6,000 kuna additional interest for the six-month delay, 6,000 kuna. 1,000 kunas have calculated the monthly bank's interest. A gentleman contacted me last year who took a loan, also at war about 3,000 kuna per month, but because he took the loan last year at this point mostly pays interest, and the principal will come in line for some better days. He will postpone by 18,000 kuna for the six months he would have paid during that period of 6 months, so to get a delay in the payment of 18,000 kuna which he will definitely have to pay, to him, the interest for those 6 months exceeds the amount of 12,000 kuna. 12,000 kuna additional interest will be paid to the bank on his loan. And you know what the worst part of it still has to be solemnized by the credit contract annex, and as an amount of course, it will account for the full amount of credit, which means that it will still have 1,500 – 2,000 kuna. So he's going to be spending six months on 15 thousand kunas. For a delay in payment of 18,000 kuna, they will pay 15,000 kuna. With all due respect, it's neither moral nor fair, nor useful. The delay, without the simultaneous delay of payment of interest or the release of interest payments, is not intended. It is only temporary assistance to citizens and citizens who will pay you the same citizens and citizens extremely expensive one day when they start returning credit. And what else is going to happen? Given the duration of only 6 months, and it is evident that many will not return to the position of paying off the loan even longer after that since it only lasts 6 months it does not achieve real effects. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, if you want to help Croatian citizens and citizens, Croatian society and the Croatian economy you do not have to accept the SDP proposal, I support what my colleague Schuker said, make it comprehensive, refer it to the procedure, I will first, I will raise my hand to him first, but you must, you must suspend the course of interest during the delay, otherwise there is no purpose. The other problem I want to talk about is the renter's problem. Household owners do not pay income tax according to actual income, but pay it according to the flat-rate rate determined according to the number of bearings in the frameworks of the prescribed law. Last year we raised the amount of sheets, we made it possible for local self-government units to go up to 1,500 kuna instead of a maximum of 300 kuna earlier, I'm talking about income tax rate, to make it quite clear. So we increased the amount multiplely and it was introduced to pay for additional beds, which was not previously the case. At present, as far as I'm aware, most or almost all of the shoppers have been delayed. However, it is quite clear, it is clear that income from the tourist season in these three months, so 4, 5 and 6, and probably not even afterwards. The delay is fine for now, but please, before the period on which the delay is given, bring a measure of the write-off of the flat-rate income tax from the tenant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198567	Thank you. Stay here please, you have one replica. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198568	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, I had to intervene because my colleague Peja is a lawyer, and I wouldn't want to give him a lecture, but when you have a loan, then you get a payment plan. In the payment plan you have a monthly war that contains war and contains interest and a bank if you do not need to pay the principal, but you have to pay the corresponding part of the interest and that is what we all need to talk about why I said it wasn't just loans to Croatian citizens and businessmen that it has full, but such a figure when you bring it out it's totally incorrect because you're not talking about the same thing, it's not interest on funds that haven't been paid for 3 months. I repeat, when you raise a loan, when you enter a Leasing relationship or anything else you get a payment plan and it is clearly based on the law you know what it contains. So this information of yours is not correct, you got it wrong, and you unfortunately misread it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198569	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198570	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My esteemed colleague Shuker didn't get it from me, it was obtained by citizens from banks asking for a postponement of the loan. It was given to the citizens of the banks, the citizens got this bill, and the banks want to charge them for it. And by the way, I know very well that there's interest on the capital. If the loan payment started last year, then you and I know very well that the principal remained intact. And that six months of paying interest on that principal will be very difficult for whoever's taking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198571	Stay still here was still a replica of a fellow Laloveca.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198572	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms I see you mentioned the tenants, but certainly what should be noted is that the government has unfortunately not thought about those who are in the lease of business premises, which are now closed business spaces and when there is no, means the contract between the tenant and the tenant is now zero kuna. However, there is no clear answer from the tax administration or the Government whether they will be charged at market value for this lease, so all these people who rent business premises will receive a fee for either VAT or income tax. So here you're talking about one category, but I think this category, too, means that they're renting business premises so that in 3 or 6 months, VAT or income taxes don't come out, especially when the market doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198573	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague, but first of all, he would direct his own representatives to the government. Last week I spoke about the problem of renting a business space and there are two problems. The first is the one you addressed, which is the fact that many tenants have freed their tenants from the rent because they are aware that they need good, good people. At the same time, however, regardless of the amount not paid by the lease, the tax administration accounts for the value added tax, but also the income tax or profit tax, and that by assessment. It's not right, and I think the ministry should address it in the relevant tax laws. However, there is another problem, and I ask you to transfer this to the Minister of State Property, which is the problem that there is no possibility in the Law on the Hire of Business Space that there is no possibility that, any state, any local self-government of freedom of the tenants from the obligation to pay or to reduce that obligation. So... We have to change that law, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198575	Thank you. Comrade Matteljan, here you go, no need for intervention, colleague Grbin didn't touch the work space, but fine, if you want then... Well, fellow Mattelian, Mathelan. Damir Mateljan, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Secretary of State. The SDP shows itself in this crisis situation, acts as a responsible and serious party. On the one hand, this is affirmative, so we have accepted in two rounds a package of measures that the Government has sent to debate in this House, which concerns helping those who are at risk of spreading the COVID-19 virus. On the other hand, we're bringing, we're proposing our own measures that unfortunately come across something like this. So, uh, the government's self-interest, the self-interest of ruling MPs actually tells us what the government thinks about these measures, or what they think about the SDP and what they feel unfortunately about the opposition. The government when it also adopted that first set of measures, including the law that we had not debated, is the Civil Protection Act, saying, so on these measures, the Government has also urged the local state to also plant its financial backs and that it is also the local state that will adapt some of its measures to help all those, whether they are citizens or those companies that have died in this crisis. The local state has also done so in a way that it could, freeing the municipal fee, the communal contribution itself, paying the market price of kindergarten so that they can survive, however, what the government did not say, what is in some way not being said, and in this House I have not heard, let alone in the media, and that is that it is, in fact, with those first and other measures that the local state has just planted its back for reasons, because that financial burden on those measures that go as free entrepreneurs is just directed at the only tax, on the only real tax which is exclusively a tax belonging to local self-government, which is income tax. Without income tax, which accounts for almost 70% of all original incomes from local self-government, local self-government can survive this month to two days. Those who are with... Which so far seemed to us to be highly developed areas, won't last a month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is very important to tell people that this one will not have preschool education, that their infrastructure local will be able to disintegrate, that there will be no public lighting, that there will be no public transport, or people need to tell, that these measures will partially save the economy and that they will completely destroy the level of local self-government that we have achieved so far. It will simply be so if we don't come up with compensatory measures that no one talks about, and I understand why no one talks about compensatory measures because there is no money for compensation measures. So when we talk about planting the backs of local self-government, then there are things that don't have just financial weight, but also that organisational weight. The famous name around the pass. Finally, the public and the government have realized that there are over 300 units of local self-government that are simply not functionally whole and cannot function in a way that in that unit local self-government citizens can achieve both rights and all their therefore things they must do, such as, the most banal going to the bank, to the post office, to the pharmacy because you have municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have no banks, no post office, no pharmacy, no elementary school or anything else. And this depends not only on their size or their critical mass, but on their capacitation, both to people and to their financial capacitation. I don't know how much time I have left, so I'm going to figure it out. So usually after all these crises we like to go out with that sentence that's total flossula, which is, we're going to come out of this crisis even stronger and stronger. [[/Intruder: 15.]] We won't. So we'll get out of this crisis weaker and worse. But I hope at least So wiser that what concerns [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The local self-government will go into this reform of the local self-government reform. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198577	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Gordan Maras, colleague Maras, come in. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198578	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. I must admit that, I have, I feel strange in this hall and all this together when a man looks at you a little bit sorry and people who work here in the organization and people from HRT because you have a feeling that this is being done as a tower at the moment of the whole situation, or the system of decision-making in the Republic of Croatia, where we, as the Croatian Parliament, are moving from the hall to the hall from Šubićeva to INU, might now be able to go to another hall, in another town, I think that the institution as a Croatian Parliament must participate more and decide in the whole crisis that is happening in the Republic. So, if as a state we do not respect our institutions, if we have a meeting president who here says that the Rules of Procedure are 100% non-respectable, I think it is one of the most recent statements I have heard in the Croatian Parliament or on the other hand says about 129 votes, it sends you a message in fact that the Croatian Parliament as an institution at the moment seems to bother the HDZ, which is also seen from the overall behaviour, work, and at the end of the day and the situation which is now the government in this Chamber, where there is usually no one else. And on the other hand, discussing such important issues in these circumstances sounds pointless, because you see that you're proposing things, very serious things. Because when you propose that citizens do not pay for a year, they have a moratorium on loans it is a very serious thing for Croatian citizens, perhaps of crucial importance to survive the next year, which will be marked by crisis, loss of work, loss of income from tourism and all that is, then I think that such a topic is shown respect for both Croatian citizens and parliament to discuss under normal conditions in front of parliamentary representatives that this topic is accepted with respect and that we eventually come together to a certain solution. Because if the opposition supports the government's measures, so what is not logical is that instead of Vice-President Sanader giving lessons to opposition deputies he takes into account what the opposition is proposing. And the other thing when we suggest also one measure, means that when it comes to parents who at the moment have a problem with organising their lives in general how to educate children, how to stay at home, how to go to work, how to combine it all together, you can't use it in the most part of the grandparents' cases because if parents do, they're exposed, so they can pass on to their children, and then their parents can't look after their children because they can get infected too, so they're huge problems. And if, at that point, we suggest that we take a model by which one parent can stay at home and pay for sick leave, as the Health Insurance Act covers some other examples, so that's a very important topic. It deserves to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, it deserves to be heard, it deserves to be considered and perhaps accepted. We can't accept the situation where the secretary of state comes and says he's not authorized to talk about it here because like he's not the finance minister or not the prime minister, they're the only ones who can. Well, we don't live in a monarchy, where one person decides what can be done, what can't be done. Although it looks like some of them are just fine with you. We live in a parliamentary democracy where parliament plays its part and I am dissatisfied with how it all works now, and I must admit that I will talk about it in the future and when we return to the Hall of the Croatian Parliament and appeal here and to the people sitting in the presidency of the assembly, and I will certainly speak to the representative of our club to simply not allow such a situation. So we live in parliamentary democracy, we're responsible people, we can contribute to this situation as painlessly as possible for our fellow citizens. We don't agree with the statements he made before Mr. Pernar I think that this time we're fighting a crisis is good, that we're all satisfied that we have very few infected and deceased in relation to other countries and we support it and we will continue to support it if it works in a quality way and on the other hand if we can participate We want to participate, we want to enable solutions that will help Croatian citizens to get through this crisis as well as we can and the more painlessly we can not do anything to get Croatian citizens to live normally as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198579	Stay here, please. We have two replicas. He's my first colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198580	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I also think that measures and what the government is doing at this point are good and that it gives good results, and we, with our SDP, as a constructive opposition with our proposals just want it to be better, especially with this third package of measures. We are thinking about the time that comes after this health crisis, meaning in a few months, because we, with our package of measures, have included exactly those citizens that the Government has not included in its activities so far. And that's why I think we should maybe listen a little bit more. And as for the functioning and work of the assembly, I agree with you and I will talk about it all the time and keep warning about it and I want once again here to underline the line that these 15 days, 20 as far as we're not in the building of the Croatian Parliament, but in the basement of the INE there are no days we joined in the order that we have the same rules. So, not to disrespect the Rules of Procedure, but there are no agreements, because today it's worth one thing, tomorrow it's worth something else, then the day after tomorrow it's worth the third, then one chairman respects one rule, the other, and that's not good. We have a Rules of Procedure which is a sacred letter to us in all situations, if anything needs to be changed, then we need to change the Rules of Procedure and we all need to adapt to that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198581	Okay, thank you, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198582	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. I think that if we function as a rule or not, by 100% of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djujic has taken 1% of the time limit on the replica, so anyone can choose for themselves if the rules don't apply to everyone. And on this side, I ask you to pass it on to the President of the Croatian Parliament that we want to function normally and that all of this together is quite nothing and that in some way Croatian citizens deserve to do it in some normal conditions, to transfer their problems, to try to solve their problems and to contribute together to this crisis as soon as possible and to allow Croatian citizens to have confidence in the institutions that represent them. The message that none sits here except Mr. Shucker of HDZ MPs is a message that automatically denys the call on joint action by HDZ [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely visible from what's going on here. [[Intruder: Next replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.]] So... HDZ with a figure in its pocket calls all opposition parties... [[/Intruder: Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198583	Comrade Maras, please. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198584	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I absolutely agree with you in your qualifications that parliament should behave in crisis situations. For example, the Hungarians had a very good solution before this happened, namely that Orban received such broad powers. According to their Constitution, in the event of an emergency, parliament is constantly sitting, no one can disband it and every 15 days the government should submit a report to Parliament which, on the basis of this report, then extends or reduces, or extends the state of emergency. The role of Parliament here should be crucial precisely because of what we talked about. Some measures are imperfect and just in the discussion with more ideas and from multiple sides and more angles, we can come up with quality solutions. One of these is the staying of one parent at home and because of small children and because of the risk of transmission of infections, so we also protect the health of the population, protect jobs because the state jumps in where it can and we try to help as much as possible. Our citizens to adapt to the new creation [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a situation. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Hajdukovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198585	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198586	Thank you. I absolutely agree with you, and I think that in this situation the most we could do is help us, given that hundreds of citizens who share their problems with us every day are talking to us. But I ask you, if we are calling for joint action and unity, where is Jandrokovic now? Where's Branko Bacic? Where are all these HDZ people who need to discuss with us the proposals that help Croatian citizens? Di, where's Ante Sanader who called the opposition SDP yesterday if he hadn't suggested anything constructive? Where are these people, why aren't they taking part here with us in this debate? Why don't they say if our proposal is good or bad? Can it or cannot it be applied? Which is why it does not allow Croatian citizens to go peacefully to Easter and not think about paying off their loans and not leave them at the mercy of their banks. Believe me, if we don't set the rules the way To be for all [[Intruder: Time.]] identically, that people know transparently what their right is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Which is what it isn't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Banks will do so in his arrangement. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] I think that It's not correct and yes [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] We should put it that way. [[Intruder: Comrade Hajdukovic, please prepare for discussion.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198587	Thank you. Please, intervention, colleague Hajdukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198588	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Here you are Mr. Hajdukovic, please, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. Here you are, colleague Hajdukovic.]] Well, unfortunately, this crisis has shown how unprepared we are for these situations in every sense. In economics, I would dare say politically, which, we are witnessing right now, organisational, logistics, social, etc., etc. Let's just take the farm. This crisis has shown our agricultural production on its knees, which is simply a victim of many years of bad policy, poor direction, non-strategic thinking. That's right, so unfortunately we're victims and in a political sense because we don't have enough culture politically to listen to everything, all the suggestions, all the problems on the table and try to deal with these problems together. I fear that HDZ's unity is only, that is, their calls for unity are only when it suits them and that their perception of community and consensus is based on "that is what you can support us, we allow you to support us". But it's not the point, it's not the purpose of parliamentary democracy. Just because there are more of us from different parts of Croatia, from different segments of life in Croatia, we can give better suggestions, we can warn of some of the problems that perhaps the Government or we as legislators have initially missed and may warn of some things that may later have serious repercusions. One of them is definitely paying off citizens' loans. Why? Many were financially planning differently, things that are unfortunately very difficult, since this epidemic, I read in one medium that about a thousand people get fired daily. If that's true, it's a terrible piece of information. In the meantime, there was also an earthquake in Zagreb, so many families in Zagreb are exposed to an additional unplanned cost of housing adaptation, if they were lucky that their apartments were still useful. For all these people, the postponement of payments, or the moratorium on the payment of loans per year, will mean little space for, to catch air, to be financially consolidated and to continue to pay their commitments. Without that beginning, I'm afraid it'll be very difficult for them, that many won't be able to repay their debts, many will lose their jobs in the meantime, we don't know how further the pandemic situation will move, as far as the economy is concerned, so we're trying to solve this equation with all the unknowns so that at least one acquaintance can be introduced into it. Also, no one has mentioned seasonal employees except for our measures so far, the 3rd package of measures. Or permanent, so-called. Permanent season. There are slightly less than 6 thousand in Croatia. These are people who, during the season, make about 6 to 7 months enough to survive the whole year and thus service their debts and all the other financial obligations they have. Since nothing's happened since the season, we need to think about protecting these exactly, slightly less than 6,000 people. If we're counting on it to be 6,000 families, then you can imagine how much repercussion could be if we don't adequately protect them. Also, people who have been fired as a consequence of the crown will be a major problem or we need to help them and take care of them, help them to stop their feet and serve them in their short - term financial obligations if God gives them no credit. Also, no one mentions employees who are at the Bureau who have no compensation. What's the number of people like that? So they have no right to any compensation for various reasons, which now because of a crisis that will become and grow into an economic crisis have no right and have no perspective of finding a job soon. It's the same segment of people we have to worry about and who we have to help. Therefore, as I have said, our measures may not be perfect, neither are the government's measures, but I believe that with one different approach, in a broader dialogue and in a dialogue with more respect, above all, from the ruling to the opposition, there would be much more quality proposals. Because I am afraid that these government proposals will need to be corrected more than once, that they will be subject to quite frequent changes and that this will create additional uncertainty among citizens but also in the economy because of the constant changes in market conditions, whether labour, whether the economy, or markets in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198589	Please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198590	My colleague Hajdukovic and I, with this proposal, are essentially concerned about citizens who have not yet felt this crisis. So, you said yourself when this health problem goes down for, we hope as soon as possible that a part of the people except for those who are unemployed and who live on the edge of poverty and those who stood up to yesterday will feel this crisis very well. And now let's say I set an example, today at the 2nd month of this year the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was about 6,500 kuna, I'm going to stick to those figures. So someone who had 6,500 kuna before this pandemic, took out a loan, planned his own life, got hit by this situation, and, say, most employers put these workers on a minimum or these 4,000 kuna due to government measures. So these workers lost 2,000, 2,500 kuna, and they'll only feel that later. This moratorium on loans means a lot to them, and it makes the situation much easier because other than preserving jobs, we encourage and spending citizens right now. in this way that these funds can be spent. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198591	Thank you, colleague Giujic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198592	I agree, fellow Djujic, that the crisis will end today, the consequences will be great and long-term. So we can't predict how many more people will lose their jobs, unfortunately, how much pay cuts, purchasing power, if it comes to question and swearing courses, it's also going to be a big problem. So there's a lot of problems waiting for us. But the same thing that's important for us to point out when we talk about our moratorium law, I think it's that those who have a good financial situation don't have to use this law. So those who have regular incomes, which will continue to have regular incomes, can choose to continue to service their debts to banks. That way, they won't be cut off as far as the payment plan or the end of their commitment to the bank is concerned, as they planned, but unfortunately I'm afraid they'll be in your minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198593	Thank you. I would like a little intervention and an individual debate from colleague Karolina Leaković. Here you go. Last reported debate, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198594	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, if we are in a crisis without precedent, and we are in the midst of the worst yet to come, and then, at least economically, then from the government and the political and economic elite as residents, it is certain that we have the right to expect solutions that will benefit the largest number of people. And these people who live on their work, not on capital, not on rent, not on inheritance, not on the accumulated, but on people, and these are the ones that live in Croatia the most, in fact, on their fair salary regardless of whether it is earned in trade, in the food industry, in transport, in services, in schools, in the hospital or in the office. If we work indefinitely on a particular one, then our contracts are extended every, every few months, maybe not always in accordance with the law, and we know that there are such situations too. He knew that the government declaredly insists on community, it's not a new word discovered, but it seems to me that for this government, a new word has been discovered, or one that is very often in the use of last weeks of solidarity. We're saying that the health crisis, or the government, is saying that we need to overcome the health crisis with common forces, appeal to the responsibility of each and every one of us, and I can certainly agree with that and I can support it. Of course, if we are not deprived of human rights in this government’s once unnecessarily restrictive decisions and, of course, if we are not deliberately deceived and tried to hide some information. We know that we have recently had such a case with the purchase of medical equipment, and we have had one case with a secret meeting in the government between the prime minister, the culture minister and the editor-in-chief of several media houses on which, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not want to present details and did not answer any questions about the meeting. The public and journalists must never, nor in this situation, remain deprived of the answers to questions about how decisions are made, why the main editors of some media houses were invited to a meeting in the government and what they were promised, to report on government measures that they would receive in return. So, unlike this solidarity when it comes to the health crisis and the epidemiological measures, when it comes to economics, I think it's hard to agree that we're all on the same boat, that it's the same for all of us, that the crisis on all of us is the same, that we all have to tighten the belt, that either we're all gonna challenge and save private entrepreneurs and their property, or we're all going to fail, and that it's not the time to question each other, and it's especially not the time to insist on working rights, on collective contracts, on collective agreements, on coefficients, says cut yourself immediately and now without any renunciation, etc., in other words socialize or share private losses, and we don't touch private profits. It has already been said today on several occasions that we have not seen how the banks have reacted in this crisis whether they have submitted part of the burden. They did not bear part of the burden, however, we saw that the owners of private companies better sent their workers and most of their workers to the stock market immediately, although perhaps they should not have done so. If we ever find out, so what is the number of those who immediately sent workers to the stock market and before measures, we will, of course, ask the Ministry of Labour and HZZ. We know there's no write-off for citizens, no lifting unnecessary banking obligations, no abandonment of performances, no appraisals. We still haven't actually made a decision about parents who care for children who don't go to school and kindergarten to determine what SDP is looking for today. We also did not make a decision that even now unemployed who have worked less than 9 months in the past 24 months have the right to compensation, this should certainly be taken into account. And there are a lot of problems that people warn us about, so I will take advantage of the opportunity with us of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health to warn him of a letter of 17 March which she sent to the Ministry, directed the Croatian Association for Rare Diseases, which warns of a special situation involving employees who are at the same time patients with autoimmune diseases, parents of chronically ill children who raise their voices and warn that they have to work, and they are very exposed to the group, so I call on the ministry to take care of their health. Ideas for the State to be a cornerstone of economic policy, economic activity to use this crisis to change the dominant political economic paradigm, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, we have yet to hear and I appeal in this regard. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198595	Thank you. And my last debate with my colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198596	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last few weeks a paradigm of relations with state institutions has changed. The rule so far is to say so to the public or most citizens in some vague situation between institutions and individuals as a rule stood aside from individuals. And lately, in this vague situation between individuals and institutions, they tend to side with the institution especially if it's the police about healthcare professionals or about someone from these now we call it the more popular service represented by the state. It is good when institutions gain greater trust from citizens, but it is never good to give non-critical trust to anyone, to either individual or to institutions. Therefore, they should always be questioned and treated critically. One of the equative examples was the police's conduct in the case of two citizens in Split who wanted to take a walk, and then there was, I would say training, unnecessary training of strictness against individuals, and there was a journalist there and it became generally known. We have then a reverse case, so in front of a church also in Split police showed much more tolerance, patience towards a priest who invited people to mass, and when the officers came to warn them that it was a violation of the headquarters's recommendations then he fell into an argument with a policeman that a police officer had finally had to interpret something from a religion, it was perhaps excessive tolerance, but somewhere between this situation the increased power of the institution I would say in relation to the rights of the individual should find a good balance. This is why it is good for us to talk about this in the Croatian Parliament live at the thematic session of the Committee on Human Rights. So, on one portal came an article about what all citizens ask the attorney general, I wouldn't say that it was an explanation of litigation with state institutions, it was really about certain individual problems of life that people came across because of this epidemic and the rapid ones, but when the measures were faster then they weren't enough, there wasn't enough thought about possible side effects that I believe had time to think about them further to be avoided. What do all the citizens actually write to the D.A.? So most often it's about people who got fired, and for various reasons they can't exercise their rights as unemployed people. Then it is about students who, because of their inability to work during the epidemic, cannot be supported and asked the competent authorities to assist students in the form of a delay in the payment of tuition. Afterwards, citizens have problems communicating with HZZ, and related to the exercise of the right for the unemployed. Most often they fail to obtain feedback on who is processing or their demands and fail to exercise rights. They are particularly numerous citizens who have jobs but who fail to work because of their obligations to young children in circumstances where kindergartens and schools are closed, then they do not know how to take care of children when they have to work again because of the end of their vacation and sick leave, then they state that despite their open-label care, employers call them to return to work, then others report that the employer determines 7-day work without rest despite the care of underage children, and then ask that the employer asks them to work even though he has not provided them with protections such as masks and gloves, then the worker reported whose employer requests to come to work personally even though he does not live in a city where he works and depends on public transportation and can't de facto come. The employers are also reporting. And that's to say, someone hired two seasons, but now he doesn't know what to do with them and their compensation, and in the end we have cases because of these passes, so he can't worry, come to visit a child living in another municipality, and he doesn't get a pass. Retired people who can't go to a bank, to a pharmacy, etc., or to a post office to raise a pension because they don't have a post office. And all these problems, I'm here, as long as I have time to count, require reaction, require reaction. an institution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198597	First, it's Mrs. Crescent. Buric, she can have an intervention at any moment, please, then colleague Schuker. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198598	Thank you. Thank you so much, Vice President HS. So, very briefly. We are here today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 5 state secretaries from 5 different ministries, now the two of us have delivered an oral opinion on the SDP package and by the fact that we were 5 out of 5 different ministries, I think it's a very clear message of respect for the promoter and I'm not saying it at all that I would be pathetic but very honest and open. Health is not everything, however, all without health is absolutely nothing and it is a saying that is more than ever proved true today. What I am also glad is that today most are in a direct or indirect way, regardless of what political groups came from, that parliamentary representatives and MPs have said that this double crisis that we are facing is strategically well-led and that we have good governance. Moreover, this is what we are talking about today, which is a package of measures, which, which is unlegislative, this government, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, has provided only so far 65 billion kuna and what I must mention, is that it is neither the first nor the last package of measures. You know that yourself. - Mrs. Crescent. Leakovic asked a question about people who had lost their jobs in this crisis, and that is why we are talking about the number of about 13,000 people, newly unemployed, which is why the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, or the executive body of the Croatian Employment Service yesterday, included in the criteria for obtaining support for the preservation of jobs, the possibility that employers who report to this support should these people return to work, that they can get that support for them too, so we are talking about support from 4 thousand kuna. There he is. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198599	Stay, you have one more replica, please. Thank you very much. [[- Yeah, good.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk. [[Intruder: Please.]] Thank you. So then, no, no, wait, wait, there's another line, don't leave yet, there's a colleague named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198600	Thank you. State Secretary. It's a good-looking jump, "Health isn't everything, but without health, we're nothing." Did I quote correctly? [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] The saying, it's more to me, it's to be honest, it's more to me to jump. [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] But health protection can't be a front for anything to be done. You can't do everything. So, you need to balance between health, among other segments of life, and you know what our Constitution says, what's everything? Thus, even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the state, the right to life, to ban torture, cruel and humiliating treatment and punishment, thoughts, freedom of mind, conscience, and religion cannot be limited. That's all. So, I agree on the importance of what you've said, but I'm not in favour of such rhetoric justifying possible restrictions on everything and everything for health, but I like the saying, now it's not, it's good, but it's not good for political game. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198601	Here, answer, secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198602	Thank you, Honorable Representative Bauk. So I repeat again. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to preserve health, protect health, on the other hand, preserve jobs, stand behind all Croatian entrepreneurs and workers and try and help and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198603	Thank you, too. Now my colleague Schuker is on behalf of the MPs' club final. I'm just asking for my colleagues' intervention. Thank you. How? I don't doubt you, just what I'm stressing. Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198604	Thank you very much. Well, I answered about three things. The first was once in the Croatian Parliament to have mutual respect among MPs and respect for what the MPs wanted to say. Unfortunately, however, those who spoke most today about how there are no MPs in the Assembly, now there are none in the assembly. There are four of us left. The other thing I wanted to say, I'm honest, but really this is what I tell you out of the soul, after all, and my debate was like this, I expected that colleagues from the SDP who have been reported for discussion each by one or two laws will try to explain the legal proposals to us, and with this, a couple of colleagues who have mentioned certain things, we haven't heard anything. We heard attacks on the government. This is what the Government likes, so eventually on the President of the Parliament, on this, on that, etc., I think today was a debate to fight, not to conflict, to oppose opinions and to think about how to solve this crisis. And lastly, yesterday, I just got this information, the EU Commission confirmed HBOR's portfolio loan scheme for liquidity, so much so that I'm going to mention again and apostrophe my colleague Lalovec, the two of us, no matter what we're from different clubs, are saying that at this point we need to secure funds from all possible sources, and this is just another confirmation that the government is working on all fronts. Some things can be spoken publicly, and some things can be spoken of only when they happen. It is a good thing that anyone who has any knowledge of professional everyday life as a proposal in the Croatian Parliament, but look at colleagues and colleagues, maximum respect and according to this institution was that the colleagues from the club who proposed this legislative proposal would be more present in this debate, it would simply point to the seriousness of this proposal, this is not reading any lesson, but when you give the political rival a chance for creamworth then it would be a shame not to take advantage of it. And how seriously you think about these suggestions of yours is best shown by those who spoke of them, I say honor with exceptions, and these exceptions remain now and in the assembly, the best shows how many people are left in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198605	Thank you, too. My colleague Bauk, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is final, and I apologize on behalf of the Proposer, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Proposer 10, 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198606	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Shuker, Honored Representative Hajdukovic, Honored representative Leakovic, the esteemed vice president, then what you should welcome yourself to, I thank you. So, first of all, the SDP Club didn't choose the time of the debate, we got it this afternoon, we could discuss it tomorrow morning, it might end something more, it might be a little more media attention, but the debate is in line with 90% of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, these 10% of what the president of the day said to adapt it to the situation. We think it was our responsibility to propose a package of measures to help citizens in the first place because some of these proposals can happen in a very similar way from the government in the next month, it can happen. Well, then we'll have what you just said about creamworth, and we'll be able to say we told you or we suggested. And I don't see that that's some big problem, it's a political competition in these circumstances of the epidemic. So when a normal boxing situation without gloves is put on a little thicker gloves and watch every word, and sometimes some of our colleagues still fail to resist calling to cross that fine line between this constructive community that we witness and regular situations. So I would, however, be encouraged by criticism from fellow Shucker once again, briefly said what our proposals were, so 10 measures to help citizens affected by the pandemic. First fee of at least 4,000 kuna per month in the next 3 months for unemployed people who were fired. Then a fee of half a minimum salary per month or 1,625 kuna for the unemployed on the stock market and do not receive any compensation. Permanent seasons fee at a minimum salary of 3,250 kuna per month, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for social assistance users, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for pensioners with small pensions as well as for all persons below the income censorship, a cancellation of the RTV subscription for pensioners with small pensions and social assistance users. Subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna per month for renting the apartment for all of the most affected groups. Terminate the execution and increase the amount of wages exempt from the performance, issue of bank cards for blocked citizens for the on-line transaction, abolishing charges on-line transaction as in crisis conditions no physical contact. I don't think I've even listed all these suggestions. I believe that we will also get a written statement from the government before voting on our proposals, so that, since they have been proposed last week, and I can know the work and functioning of the government agree that maybe there was not enough time to get the government's written statement, but until the vote, since we now have a week's break, we can really get the government's written statement on our bill proposals, too, so that the foundation of them and the foundation of the government's work in the future would allow us to see how much these arguments have been justified, and how much they were merely the fruit of us proposing something without the government's proposal. It's the same thing in political life that's possible. I also believe that the assembly will find time to discuss perhaps in a united debate, such as today, proposals from other promoters, not only the SDP Club, but also other proposings, and that we will have to decide whether we are still in this situation in the constructive community as it is said, but it is not a good way not to accept any proposal, or any amendment of the opposition. Then indeed, as counterpart Maras said, we may be serving as a tower, and at the same time the bodies that make decisions are especially spared, excluded from criticism, the Maltas do not welcome any criticism against them on the knife as if they were protected from criticism or as if I were going to say it without a problem, holy cows, so there are no sacred cows in democracy. But what matters is that their decisions should be implemented and respected, but it is allowed and desirable if they are not good critics because they have also created certain problems for citizens who may still be less than the problems that have been spared by the citizens, for example, I think most of all about preventing the spread of the infection. I thank again everyone who participated, thank the state secretaries from all five ministries, especially my colleague Buric and colleagues from the health ministry who was Plazonic, where he was a representative in the previous assembly of the parliament, but I was afraid not to make a mistake, who remained until the end and representatives, especially colleagues Suker who stayed until the end. I hope that, on our return to the Croatian Parliament, we will continue with the normal dynamics of the debate, that the Parliament will remain a place of control of the government and to prevent the arbitrary conduct of a body that is not good when they have no control and that I believe that other colleagues, whether they are from a position or opposition, will contribute. So, I think that in Croatia, we have long fought for democracy so that only so democratic institutions would now deprive their constitutional powers. Some laws could be passed today by agreement and by a two-thirds majority, but the Constitutional Court will then discuss it well, and for everything else we see next week in the new debate, in the new confrontations of opinions, I believe in new constructive decisions that citizens will be able to cope with this crisis as easily as possible. It will be easy if this lasts for two months, but if it lasts longer then the end of the epidemic will sooner be declared by the Minister of Finance than the Minister of Health because suddenly our alternative will die from hunger or from the crown of the virus becoming a general alternative. Therefore, we can endure for some time, but we also need to think about the scenarios of how to live in co-existence with the coronary virus with the least consequences for society, for citizens, for the economy and for the way we're used to living until the middle of the 3rd month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198607	Thank you. That concludes the debate on a set of ten laws, we'll vote on them when the conditions are met. Another information for counterpart Leaković, a colleague of Hajdukovic, a colleague of Shuker and a colleague of Bauk, the work of the Parliament continues on Wednesday 15th April at 9.30 p.m. on Mark's square with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Coastal Research Security, Carbon Exploitation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 821. Thank you very much and the secretary of state for being here. I wish everyone a happy Easter. Goodbye. SESSION DISCONTINUED
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198608	Final draft law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 892. The promoter is the SDP Representatives' Club, and the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law that the government does not accept, please let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The proposal didn't get enough votes, the law wasn't passed, 37 were for, 2 abstentions and 75 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198609	Let's move on to the agenda. We have already agreed to conduct a joint discussion on the set of 6 laws proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club and one joint SDP representative's club and representative Goran Aleksic's team, and on three proposals for a conclusion submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, these are: - Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the Law on Contribution, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal for the Act on the Law on Obligors, First and Second Amendments, - Final Proposal for the Law on the Complementary of the Law on the Morals, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal of the Law on Obligations, the Emergency Act on the Taxes, the Second Amendments of the Act, the Second Amendments, the Second Amendment of the Act, the Act on the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Protection of the Act, the Law on the Act, the Second Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Rec, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Protection of the Law on the First, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the First, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law on the Law of the First, the First, the Law on the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the First, the Law on the Law on the Law, the Law of the Law, the Law, the Law, the Law of the First Act, the Law, on the Law on the Law of the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law, the Law, the First Act, the Law, the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on the Working of the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice. The government didn't deliver an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198610	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning, we warned a month and a half ago about the effects of the crisis caused by the coronary virus. Three weeks ago, we went out with our first package with more than 15 measures to help citizens and preserve jobs. Our measures were not then adopted by the government. Since the first government measures that followed only by our measures were too focused on prolongation, on delays, and they were not enough help for entrepreneurs, nor their employees, and time was leaking, the SDP sent our second package of more than 10 laws to save the economy and jobs, which we are unfortunately considering today. The second package comes today after voting on the government's package, shows in fact only demeaning and opposition, but also citizens, especially those citizens who have lost their jobs in the last two weeks due to late government reactions, over 20,000 of them as well as those citizens who at this point fear losing their jobs. Further demeaning comes precisely because the government was not even ready to manifest itself on this proposal. This only shows the relationship that currently exists in Croatia with all those who are trying to constructively help their proposals the poorest, most endangered, unemployed and other most vulnerable groups of citizens who are going through a severe crisis in Croatia thanks to the coronary virus. It is precisely because of a late reaction from the Government that the SDP proposed in the second package a write-off, not just a postponement of taxes and contributions, and we have suggested that we exempt the payment of profit tax for all entrepreneurs because this is not a time in which they can simply or should credit the state. Secondly, we have proposed the release from the payment of the flat-rate tax for craftsmen and small tenants due to special circumstances because they are closed due to the decision of the headquarters and we have proposed to write down 100% of the contributions for salaries to employees during the duration of the crisis simply so that they can help these people because they are closed by the decision of the headquarters due to the crown of the virus. After a very high public pressure, after we had pushed in the SDP for the past three weeks, offered to the Croatian public, and also to the Croatian government to help solve these problems in trying to preserve jobs, after pushing them to move faster, to simply do more in the direction of protection and employers, but also jobs, only one step was taken to help the economy. Therefore, the proposals for a write-down of taxes and contributions were accepted. But now you need at this specific moment of help right now to the citizens, to do what is not done. Help those most vulnerable, workers, but also unemployed, parents who stay with children at home, but also those workers who stay at home alone in self-insulation, as well as those on the first line of defense against the epidemic. Therefore, the SDP continues to insist on its second package of laws to help preserve jobs and therefore we still feel that our proposals are needed at this point. It is necessary to increase the basis for compensation for self-insulation workers to the average salary level because this fee of 2100 kuna is simply too small for a man's life. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide paid leave to at least one parent who spends time at home with his child under 12 years of age, especially since in this situation the parent is particularly affected at work. It is also necessary to increase the amount of non-taxable payments to help employers in particularly sensitive activities in the root of the crisis to reward their workers, especially those now on the first line of defence against the epidemic and helping Croatian citizens not to lack anything, so that they can reward traders, so that they can reward pharmacists, drivers, workers and logistics workers, as well as security guards, those whose simple work in these difficult times has not stopped but is even more pronounced. 4. it would be responsible to enable workers who are at risk of a job due to the crisis to pay 75% of the salary, up to a maximum of 5,100 kuna, it is a small cost to the state, and it is certainly a guarantee of a much better life for those people who cannot work in these conditions. And they can't work primarily on sectors for which Croatia's GDP depends most, it's tourism and hospitality. Tourism reminds me that it accounts for over 20% of our GDP, when tourism and hospitality are at stake in the government in this segment has done absolutely nothing, practically nothing but petty cosmetic and technical changes. We recall that the SDP has proposed to abolish the obligation to pay the flat-rate tax for small tenants, we have also proposed to abolish the obligation to pay advances for artisan craftsmen and to abolish certain parafiscal duties including the flat-rate amount of tourist tax and membership fee to the tourist community during the crisis. And I remind you that we will continue to insist that VAT in tourism and catering goes to 5% especially at this time of crisis, as we today insist that VAT on food delivery goes to 0% because we believe that in these difficult times, especially in the circumstances of the crisis when people order delivery needs to act on one hand and to reduce prices, but also to reduce taxes to those who have suffered the most damages due to the crisis, and these are the caterers. At a time of crisis, we must be solid, especially us politicians who represent citizens, especially those who are most affected by this crisis and who have lost their jobs or gone to a minimum. We therefore propose that for the next three months, parliamentary representatives and other state officials, other than those on the first line of defence against the virus, work for a minimumer to solidarity with a number of citizens who will be affected by this crisis, and unfortunately more and more in Croatia. 70,000 social assistance users, 240,000 blocked, more than 400,000 citizens living below the poverty threshold of 1,940 kuna, mostly part of the pensioners. In just two weeks of the crisis primarily due to a late government reaction, over 20,000 workers are jobless, another 400,000 fear for losing their jobs. For 5,500 permanent seasons and over that number as well as for more than 100,000 people registered on the stock market, and now they are not receiving any compensation for the simple prospect of employment is almost completely destroyed due to the crisis and they need help. So, it's over a million of the most vulnerable who can't pay the directors soon, can't pay the rent for the apartment, can't pay the loans. It is already clear that this crisis will take, in particular, a recovery from the crisis, so that we insist in the SDP that it is necessary to secure the moratorium on loans for a year, not just three months, and in a way that the interest is calculated in order to ensure on one hand the safety of entrepreneurs to continue their business, but in order to make them the most important thing, to ensure that citizens continue their normal lives without fear and uncertainty. It is necessary at this point to suspend and tighten interest, we have also suggested and is in this set of laws to help the economy and preserve jobs. So I want to say, in the SDP, we will continue to insist on the moratorium, on paying off loans for a year, but we will also insist on our third package of measures to help the citizens we presented the other day, which includes. First, a fee of 4,000 kuna per month in the next three months for unemployed people who were fired because of the root crisis, thanks to a late reaction from the government, a protection supplement of 750 kuna per month for all users of social assistance, etc. The minimum fee guaranteed is 70,000, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for all those who have income below the poverty threshold, so it's between 350 and 400,000 people below the threshold of 1,940 kuna per person for the most part of the pensioners, so these are pensioners with small pensions. We will insist on a fee of half the minimum wage, i.e. $1,625 per month for the unemployed currently on the stock market, who do not receive any remuneration and whose chance of employment has been completely destroyed due to the crisis, we will insist on continuing seasons at a minimum wage of 3,250 kuna per month of them 5,500, simply people have to live on something. Also, we propose to abolish the RTTV subscription precisely for these most affected layers of citizens, as well as a subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna renting the apartment for these mentioned categories, of course for people who are hired. What I would particularly like to put an emphasis on, I would like to stress that our legal proposals to be referred to in the procedure will require a suspension of the performance and an increase in the amount of pay free of charge, as well as the issue of bank cards blocked with a certain spending limit and the abolition of transactions i.e. compensation for transactions in online payments simply so that under the conditions of the crisis there will be no physical contact. We believe that these measures are very concrete, that they are implemented and that they should act quickly to help the most vulnerable groups of citizens, unemployed, pensioners, permanent seasons, social assistance users. I call on the government to consider them and to respect them as she has already complied with some of our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198611	Thank you. Continuing, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198612	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would only briefly comment on the moratorium law on the loans of debtors why it matters. In his statement, the CNB made public, i.e. according to the recommendations of the European Central Bank or the European Banking Supervisory Mechanism in Frankfurt, it said for a year that you have a framework for all business entities and citizens not to go to... claims. In other words, what does that mean? The CNB, or regulator, has already given a year to all business banks how to treat claims in their books, which means that banks already have the opportunity to do so. What does it matter? If this crisis, we all know, and we're aware that it can't end in three months, if the banks start to collect claims after three months, but now we have a liquidity problem, they'll simply suck all the money out of the system. If businesses and citizens come to them after three months, all these amounts, simply when the economy needs to be returned if they are bank priorities they will simply suck all the money out of the system if they have insurance instruments, they can charge much better from the state, they can be charged sooner than the state. And that's why it's important to calm down if we're saving the economic system now, now we're saving the economy of the Republic of Croatia. After three months, banks cannot be a priority over the state and cannot be a priority over other suppliers. And that's why it's important, and all the legal mechanisms have to be very good at controlling the whole process now. And here's why our intensity was to go with this moratorium for a year, only to those who are in liquid problems, only to those citizens who are at a minimum and only to those who are at risk, that they are simply given the opportunity to cope in that particular period of time. But what I'm warning you all the time is that it's simply our biggest fear of liquidity, liquidity or the insolvency of the system, that the system doesn't crack in the 6th month, is that we won't be able to get foreign exchanges about tourism and that simply when the economy starts to turn to make priority to suppliers and to pay bills, and only later will the banks that have the biggest capital and later come to the state that when the economy starts and collects their claims. Here's what I'd like to ask my colleague, Alexic, if that's what we agreed on for the last words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198613	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198614	I thank the SDP first of all for inviting me to propose with them the Moratorium on Loans Act, as this is my area of action since the beginning of the Croatian Parliament of the Bank, credit institutions, debts. I also note that it is very good that certain measures of force are also proposed in this third package, it will be proposed that we already proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia deblocking accounts, bans on enforcement, cards to everyone for free, free Internet banking, all this is important in these moments to enable citizens. The SNAGA party has proposed 16 measures in total, but I would now say something more about these moratories because it is the subject of exposure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has announced as one of the measures of the moratorium on the payment of the loan claim, as announced by the government of the Republic of Croatia, however, the government has not proposed a binding measure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has obviously discussed this with banks because banks have offered moratories to citizens, but these moratories include the calculation of interest, and these interest rates reach the day the moratorium ceases to operate and then they are deployed to wars or whatever bank it intends to negotiate with its debtors. It's not a moratorium. Such a moratorium of banks approve consumers, businesses, anyone and in a normal situation, therefore it is not a moratorium that must be made possible in the current crisis situation. In the current crisis situation, a moratorium must be allowed to collect claims from loans without interest and without any other charges being charged. If the moratorium lasts a year, and it should take a year, because the crisis will not stop the day the virus stops working, but the crisis will continue, because we will all be in the most citizens' problems, businesses less because they will start working, which is why the measure needs to be extended for a year. And it is easy to reduce the measure in the meantime if there is a better situation between citizens and businesses. Croatian banks can handle this measure without a problem. Croatian banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is excess liquidity. What does that mean? This means that they have 34 billion kunas of their own money that they can do whatever they want to do because they are not obliged to account for that money to anyone. And these 10 billion I said now seem to have fired the CNB in the last tranche another number of billions, so their liquidity is even greater than, that excess liquidity is even more than 34 billion kuna. Therefore, the banks must wait for the payment, and in addition the banks are obliged to the Croatian citizens who have robbed for the course of the franc, for the payment of interest that was illegal for a total of 20 billion kuna, hence those banks that are due to all of us, and perhaps for those of you who are here with me now, perhaps some of you banks owe us, and the banks they owe us should not now be charged in the annuity crisis. What's still missing, and what we haven't covered by the law is the licking, so the licking should be covered by the moratorium, it's primarily important for those companies that deal with transport, so they've got to get to licking buses, some other means of transport or the means of working in agriculture, so it's not working for them now, they need to be given a lysing moratorium because they don't fit at this time. So there are a series of measures still missing, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider this bill that we have put into the SDP procedure and I as Parliament's representative of the SNAGA party. I hope you will also consider this new package of measures mentioned by my colleague Bernardic, about cards, about unblocking citizens, about breaking up accounts, about free Internet banking. I don't think there's gonna be a problem with that, the government hasn't done it yet, but I don't think the government will have a problem with that, and that if the government doesn't even accept this proposal, they're going to prepare their proposal the way the government thinks it's best and they're going to put it in the process within about 7 to 10 days. Here's thank you for listening very carefully to what I've put forward and I hope you'll accept all of it in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198615	Thank you to Reverend Goran Aleksic. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinovic has a request for the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198616	... in accordance with Article. 248. The Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work seek a five-minute break in front of the club Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to warn the citizens and here present representatives of the complexity, the additional complexity of this economic situation in Croatia for which this second round of measures will not be sufficient today. In that sense, and thus I want to change Croatia constructively to this proposal for a package of measures that is now being discussed, I would like to draw particular attention to the second pension pillar. I'm looking for and I suggest, respected citizens, that they all be deposited in another pension column frozen during the crisis. Why? Because every month, on average, about 500 million kuna is paid into the second pension column, which is about 6 billion kuna a year. Now imagine how much it would mean, respected citizens, 500 million kunas every month during the crisis that you can get that money that's missing from the state, that you can pay minimum workers who have lost their jobs, social cases, those who are seasons that no one sees or asks what they're doing somewhere in between. Therefore, I think it is very important and we take advantage of this situation, we are ready, we have excellent economic experts in the party to change Croatia, we use this crisis to start reforming the second pension pillar, to transform it, to give people freedom to transfer their money or to the first pension column where they will guarantee the state or to the third liberal so that they can be rich or lost, but the time is so. If we do this, we will drastically reduce public debt, repair public finances and contribute to saving the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198617	Thank you. I'll have a break by 14.50. THE PURPOSE
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198618	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.50 HOURS]] So we have three replicas, we have two replicas at the exhibition of our colleagues Bernardic, we have one replica on the presentation of our fellow Lalovec. First fellow Maras at the fair of fellow Bernardic. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you explained a whole series of laws that I don't think it's a good thing we didn't discuss before the vote today, because some proposals are certainly still very current and we just need to apply them. One such proposal is also the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act where we predicted that one parent should be allowed to stay with his child if both parents work because we know that school doesn't work, that our children are home. We must thank parents who at this time are making a great effort to make up for this situation that is with their children, teachers who send tasks parents must work because they simply have to gain knowledge. And it would be much easier if the state would allow one parent to be at home with his child and do what is necessary. Here's what I want you to further comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198620	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198621	Dear colleague Maras. Maybe that's why you said that we don't actually have the government's opinion today because if they asked anyone responsible from the health care system of any epidemiologist, you'd say that for the possibility of spreading the infection isn't as good as our thousands of citizens do, going to work with children because they don't have anywhere to leave them. They're going with little boys, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia it hasn't been recorded yet, but we've seen that young people and children can be infected around the world and unfortunately the coronarys of the virus are dying. Not to mention when you bring a child to work, that virus can spread faster. So I can't believe that in a month there's no understanding, no sense, no common sense when it comes to treating parents who should stay home with their children for up to 12 years to prevent and spread the infection, but to make their lives much more pleasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198622	Thank you. The next replica of a colleague of the coat of arms on a colleague of Bernardic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198623	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Maras spoke of one important measure, and I would single out one other which seems to me to be extremely important for Croatian citizens, which is a matter of moratorium on loan payments. What the government of the Republic of Croatia has agreed with Croatian business banks and what business banks are giving based on their decision is all but a moratorium. It is a delay, a delay that citizens and citizens will pay dearly because during the duration of that delay they will be charged interest on the entire principal of the loan. So, in this way, the banks will actually cost 6 months of delays to Croatian citizens and make extra money in this way. That is why I believe that this may be the most important measure of all that we have proposed, and I absolutely advocate its adoption and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198624	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198625	First of all, thank you, fellow coat of arms, for that observation. That's what we're going to insist on, it's inadmissible that at this difficult moment the banks are reaching for additional profits in those who are unhappy with this crisis, which are the most endangered. And it is unacceptable for the government to calmly observe that additional interest is being charged on loans that people can no longer pay, especially those 20,000 people who are out of work thanks to the late government reaction or those 400,000 who fear that they will lose their jobs because simply those companies where they work today are closed. And that's why it's necessary, and that's why we're going to insist on making a moratorium on loans for the citizens for a year, but in a way that doesn't account for any extra interest because it's absolutely certain that this crisis is going to last and that we're going to need some more time to get out of this crisis. That's why we've been looking for a year, not any less prolongation periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198626	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask a colleague of Lalovec and a colleague of Maras you have a replica on a colleague of Lalovec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198627	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, I'd like to comment on the situation regarding the delay and moratorium on the loans. At this point, we have a situation that is not regulated and defined, so some banks haven't charged loans by this date until they see that citizens are applying for them to process and examine it in some way who would have the right and who wouldn't have the right. But I think and I think it would be normal for the state to regulate the system and know exactly what situation citizens are entitled to the moratorium for a year and on the other hand to protect them from the uncertainty of the next months and the next year. Because we know all seasons will be zero, over 300,000 people will be out of a job very soon, 300,000 took advantage of the possibility of being on the minimal offered by the government, the state has to do it urgently, so we don't have time to wait because the banks already recognized certain problems I think the state should too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198628	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198629	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, for asking. That's why the SDP also proposes a moratorium for a year, precisely because this won't be over in three months, only at 6 and 7 months we'll see the state of unemployment in society, we'll see that a number of companies that will only then open their doors at 6 and 7 months start from zero, let's not forget that they start from scratch that these three months of moratorium mean nothing to them. These companies will all take more than a year to recover their pre-crisis traffic. And because of this, when these companies start from zero, they will likely have minimally certain revenues, no tourism, no economic activity, and therefore it is important that in the 6th, 7th and 8th months when economic activity is due to return, not all banks will be frozen to purchase all of the liquidity from the system and thus will still cause economic recession and therefore we expect a very fast liquidity fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198630	Thank you. Now the government's representatives will give an additional explanation in a united call it a 15-minute debate with you being able to replicate each and every one of them, they will change. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198631	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In addition, to the set of legal regulations as well as the conclusions proposed in this agenda, a total of 10, what was introduced and said in view of the government's obligation to give its position and opinion, which for obvious reasons is the speed of action, given that these proposals are also by emergency procedure, here I use the opportunity to present at least in this section as regards the Ministry of Finance, so colleagues in their section. I would just like to begin by thanking my colleagues from the SDP and everyone who voted today for these legal regulations adopted by this House of Commons, proposed by the Government in order to mitigate the effects of the coronary epidemic of the virus. So far, we have had two packages of legislation in March and now in this month, totaling 32 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 18 decisions and 3 conclusions are all aimed at protecting the health of citizens, and, of course, preserving jobs and preserving the liquidity of businesses so that the economy can survive at all. In this regard, because of sustainability and the state budget itself, they would point out that in this way and in this way these measures so far have been developed by the Government in terms of citizenship, and solidarity and synchronisation in the work of all components of society is more than necessary and important to emerge from this crisis as little as possible and that the economy and society can function as a whole. As regards the legal rules that came from the Ministry's domain, there were five, the General Tax Law as a roof regulation that regulates the relationship between the tax authority and the taxpayer through whose... we went to regulate all these provisions concerning the suspension of payments to ultimately write down claims all under the tax code through the General Tax Code. This is what we wanted to shorten the procedures and go line-by-line in that part of taxation, all of the norms went through the General Tax Law, and now, after today's vote of law, of course, will be accessed and drawn up by the regulations themselves, which will set the deadlines where they are needed in terms of moving deadlines, as is, for example, allowed through the amendment of the Accounting Act, but in this section through the Regulation they will be allowed to be now 30.6. or some other date due to this operationality daily because the situation is changing, they can be freely said from day to day. So it's very important to know that as we know we have the main factor or factor in this whole situation completely unknown, it's the length of the duration of this crisis, and with its length and impact on the economy. Therefore, this dosing of measures that the state budget can take or will have to pass through some other types of funding must be such that it is sustainable, that it generally exists as a state budget. As regards these provisions of some of these proposals, I would just like to mention, for example, the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act where an untaxable reward for risk-related risks to elemental disasters is proposed, I would like to remind you that we already have these provisions in norms as untaxable including health care that was previously untaxable. So I'm really sorry, and I wouldn't want it to turn out that we don't want to meet all these good demands that are being proposed here, but since the regulations that are mutually synchronised are both the Ministry of Finance and the other members of the government. Certain proposals here are somewhat contrary to some of the activities that we have today supported by the government's adoption of these legal proposals. Of course, as far as the third round that the prime minister announced in terms of measures related to citizens is concerned, I believe the next measure, and which you are now pointing out here, and I assume that this will have more to say to the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198632	Thank you. I'm asking the next representative of the government. So on your show we have three replicas, we'll do that later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198633	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. I present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in oral form on the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the amount of support to preserve jobs in activities affected by the Crown virus, the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament not accept this proposal for a conclusion on increasing the amount of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the virus virus submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives' Club. First of all, I must stress that the focus of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to protect health, as well as to preserve all jobs and fight for every job. We stand firm behind Croatian workers, and in this sense there is a measure and all the other measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken. The meeting, held on 2 April 2020, concluded on the second group of measures to help the economy resulting from an outbreak of the coronary virus and the implementation of all these measures provided 65 billion kuna, I repeat 65 billion kuna. And for the support we are talking about, support for job conservation is provided 8.5 billion kuna and according to the current projections that we have, this measure will cover 500,000 workers. In accordance with the policy of preserving jobs, the amount of support to preserve jobs in sectors affected by the coronary virus has been increased from 3,250 kuna, as you know to 4,000 kuna per worker for April and May of this year, and employers using those support will also be freed from the cost of corresponding contributions. Just to remind you, the state is also carrying the burden of paying a contribution of around 1,500 kuna. And what I must especially point out is that on today, therefore, on 7 April, we have received 84,000 requests for about 500,000 workers, and only so far have we paid 600 million kuna. You remember that some day already the employers who applied and whose application or application was valid that one day they sat down 600 million kunas in total for a job-preservation measure or support. What I must also particularly stress and remind is that both employers and workers and trade unions and the entire Croatian public have, to a great extent, praised this measure of support for the preservation of jobs. The level of support is set at 4,000 kuna in order to cover as I have said as many workers as possible, to ensure the necessary material protection, to keep people in employment and to facilitate the business of employers under special circumstances and, of course, to account for available financial opportunities. What I must also point out when we talk about support for job conservation, it also existed in the past crisis that lasted during the SDP, but I must state that at that time the support for the preservation of jobs was consumed in 4 years only 2,008 times. Well, thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198634	Time, please. We have two replicas on your exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198635	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. As for the Ministry of Justice's portfolio, we have already repeated several times that with due attention, given the circumstances in which we are working on several amendments to the current legislative proposals. First of all, the executive procedures at this point have stopped. It is our recommendation to the public notaries to make all the public notes available for deadlines that will run when this situation continues. So our recommendation is that public notebooks make executive solutions, but don't send them to the executives until they pass the circumstances caused by the COVID-19 crisis. Also in the following days, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take new measures to fully halt the executive procedures until the elements of this health threat have passed. As regards the proposal to reduce the tightening interest rate on trade relations and contracts between traders and public rights persons, we believe that, although we appreciate the proposal's intention, it was not only in this particular section that the other relations were taken into account. Also in the non-standard part, it is not explained until the end, which means this feedback and justification of such feedback in view of the situation that has arisen since the day we declared the pandemic, which is 19 March 2020. Considering everything that you have suggested the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also working on this set of legal changes that will come in a package with a resolution of laws relating to the Ministry of Justice. The question of deadlines is also a matter of several laws, with due regard to the specificity of the issue of deadlines at the Ministry of Justice, we have proposed and in a few days everything about deadlines will be available to the public in order not to question the functioning of the judicial system as a whole. I repeat, it is not time for us to speak politically now, professionally with the justice portfolio we will do everything to address the issue of blocked citizens in a few days, the issue of enforcement in a way that will stop until the circumstances that require the situation to be normal in the Croatian state continue in a way that we can work on the new Executive Law, and that we now do in this part of the crisis stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198636	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198637	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives of colleagues and colleagues. Here before I start reading what I'm going to say today given these points that I would just remind everyone present today that today is World Health Organization Day, and we can especially speak with pleasure because we all know very well that one of the founders, and surely the first president of the World Health Organization was ours. Andrija Printer. First, he would refer to the proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I must say that the legal proposal suggests that one of the parents has the right to pay wages during the temporary prevention to work for the care of a child up to 12 years of life for the closure of educational institutions and that is, if the reasons for the closure of a health or safety nature are on the burden of HZZO funds. Since the rights provided under compulsory health insurance rights are directly linked to the use of healthcare in the existence of a disease or medical indication to achieve the same, that issue cannot be regulated by the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and cannot be achieved on the burden of the means of compulsory health insurance because there is no medical indication for the same in the sense of the Health Insurance Act. The second promemory is mine, which speaks of the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the maximum or maximum monthly amount of salary compensation, on the burden of HZZO assets, isolated or self-insulated employees due to the Covida-19 epidemic. This proposal proposes to increase the maximum monthly amount of salary compensation on the burden of HZZO funds to isolated or self-insulated employees due to an outbreak of covids and to the amount of the average salary in the Croatian Republic in January 2020. The proposal is not acceptable without the provision of additional funding from the state budget and therefore we do not agree with the proposal of this law Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198638	Thank you. Please give me just stay here, and we'll go the other way because we have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, followed by his colleague Maras. And I apologize to Anka's colleague, Mr. Taritash. Just stay, so you can answer immediately that we don't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198639	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State and I join in reminding ourselves that today is the World Health Day, especially dedicated to nurses and midwives who make a really big contribution to this fight. What I want to ask you is, are you in charge of ensuring the financial stability of this system in the ministry, because after the end of the crisis, the situation will be even worse, and therefore I appeal that, at the same time with the fight against the crown of the virus, you lead and fight to save the financial stability of the health system when the coronary crisis is over. Also, since we have all received a letter from the Chamber of Health Care Professionals of a special segment of health laboratory activity, to withdraw from the e-consultation of the law currently in the debate on medical biochemical activity because it is not in conformity with all stakeholders and is a discrimination against the employees of the laboratory profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198640	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198641	I would refer to this first part, to this second part, I think we've talked a lot about it, and I think that when this entire epidemic of Corona virus passes, we'll have plenty of time to talk about it in peace. As far as the financial situation is concerned, the fact is that we are now in a special position to provide health care to all those who have suffered from Covidom-19 infection and that this is our priority because it means not only that we have to provide financial resources for the adaptation of our hospital spaces, for the opening of respiratory centres, for the unification of certain functions of intensive care, intensive therapy, the acquisition of apparatus etc., etc., so for now we in one part would say reduced health work on issues of more selective procedures, and to the maximum focus on what cannot wait, and these are clearly medical emergencyes and malignant diseases, in this respect we have maximum orientation. and technical and financial, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198642	Thank you. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198643	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, as I understand from your debate, the government, or the state, has no money to pay to allow parents to stay, at least one of the two employed parents to stay with their children at home. When we estimated what the amount would be for the next period, we came to some billions of kunas if we used that exactly all in the Republic of Croatia in such a situation, which probably wouldn't be the case. But it's amazing to me that for our children, for parents who have to work with them on their home education, who have to take care of them, try to be sure in some way not to expose them to this whole situation under the motto "stay home" the government says there's no money for it. For some other things that cost the same thing, there's money. Now, you explain to me why the government can't find the money to keep each of our parent employees at least one of them, with their children at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198644	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198645	So I can't speak on behalf of the government, I'm not Prime Minister or Prime Minister, but I can say what and repeat what I said today and today this part of the financial compensation is not part of it, not part of which would be the health insurance from which patients who need to finance the health system as a whole are financed. So he just can't get into this law. If the government has money from some other means, I can't say it right now because I'm neither Minister of Finance nor Prime Minister, but I can't get into HZZO health insurance, it's not the same, there's no place for that legal space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198646	A fellow Maras injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198647	Thank you very much. The 238th article was injured, you here Mr. Secretary of State said you couldn't answer because you're neither Prime Minister nor Minister of Finance, and why did you come here to give your opinion on it? Are you just here to convey greetings and messages or represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about this law? You must give us an answer if you are a representative of the government. Why is it not possible to secure these funds in the state budget? It's going to be budget rebalance, plan them, you can't tell us that's not possible. So I'm begging you, Mr. Vice President, they're here. Government representatives have to give us answers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198648	Thank you, so in. So just for a second, so you can't because this isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Maras. [[/Intruder: Can I answer?]] So they give answers within their means, so no injured Rules of Procedure Please don't do this anymore. [[Intruder: Within its resources.]] Third replica of Anka's colleague, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198649	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you are here on behalf of your ministry and on behalf of the Government and we expect answers from you. In my replica, I ask you to read the following fact. So we at the GLAS Club immediately applied for an emergency procedure of the law where those in self-insulation linked to the threat we have from the virus would have a fee different from that prescribed at this point. What exactly is this about? It's about two weeks of self-insulation, and we only gave that up when it started, the fee was 2,100 kuna and it remained. But there's something else, when we looked at that law, that compensation for people who decided to donate an organ to someone, so they give someone their kidney, when they're on sick leave to receive a fee of 4,400 kuna in a month. So I'm interested in your position regarding these self-insulation and organ donation charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198650	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198651	It is difficult to compare the diseases resulting from organ transplants and the issue of organ transplanters with Covida-19 infection. These are two things that in medicine simply cannot be compared because they have neither the same etiology nor the same medical I would say weight. As for financial compensation to people who are in isolation or self-insulation, it is as much as the Government has decided at the moment that they can give, and whether there will be financial resources in the coming period depending on the development of the overall situation with this pandemic that is something we will see in the future, and probably according to that, we will then be different and financially oriented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198652	Thank you. Now we have three replicas of Secretary of State Salapic. The first is a colleague of the coat of arms, you can talk slowly, and you'll make one small intervention. Thank you. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198653	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, I assume you know what I'm going to ask you, and this concerns the situation in the judiciary and the fact that despite the announcements made by the Minister of Justice Mr. Bosnjakovic in the interim building of a meeting in the basement of a historic ININE building 10 days ago, we still don't have a law that would regulate the course of court deadlines in times of crisis. And you and I both know how many problems there are in the Croatian judiciary otherwise, we know that these problems are further highlighted now in the Kovid era, we know that there are courts that are blocked because individuals in these courts have been infected, we know that the earthquake makes it impossible to use a whole series of courts buildings in Zagreb. My question is, when are you going to refer to the procedure a law that will regulate the time-limits in court proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198654	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198655	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, we are in preparation for the deadline law, and we have already repeated it several times. It's not about one law. It's about a set of laws and a very sensitive matter. What I can say responsibly, the justice system in the circumstances in which we are caused by the earthquake, Covidom-19, works so that the rule of law is not compromised at any time. As for the specifics, we are in a few days will be after Easter and with you here in Parliament discussing this. There is nothing that would endanger any citizens of the Republic of Croatia to protect their rights, and also as far as investigative procedures are concerned, the urgency of court proceedings, all courts in the Republic of Croatia are doing their job in such a way that these laws are implemented no matter where the court is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198656	Thank you. The next replica of Anka's colleague Mrak Taritas, followed by counterpart Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198657	Before starting with the replicas, distinguished secretary of state, therefore we are in this area not because of the crown but because of the earthquake that was in Zagreb. The earthquake that was in Zagreb, what we have a chance to see has done a lot of damage in courts that are basically in the lower city where there was damage. I'm curious, of course, when you're here, then you're going to give us answers to what we have a chance to ask you, which is whether it started with the damage recovery, as you've thought, whether or not with the Ministry in charge of the property you're seeing some other locations where the work of the judiciary might take place, because some resolutions will take a very long time, and we think that life can't stop and we hope that this threat will end quickly, so that life will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198658	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198659	Thank you very much. You were the Minister of Construction, and then you know that some demands are complicated. As far as the County Court building in Zagreb is concerned, the reconstruction took place immediately after the earthquake and will eventually become operational. As for replacement properties, we have found several locations that will soon be published by one of them is a building on Harambasic Street that has about 4000 square meters, there will be moved by certain judicial institutions, the Commercial Court, part of the Administrative, etc. What we've been doing certainly from the day of the earthquake to today, we've taken steps to make the entire justice system work soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198660	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198661	Thank you. Dear Secretary Salapic, please answer my very simple question, you have now announced publicly that the government will prepare a stalemate of all tasks. But from what I've come from the media, I've concluded that it's a law relating to monetary performances, but I'm asking you specifically now, does this mean that it's going to be a stalemate of all tasks, means those who go through the FINE and those who the employer takes out from pay and pay the creditor where the pension is, too, part of the pension goes to the believer, will all of this be covered by the stalemate, and will there be a delay in the flow of tight interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198662	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198663	Your Honor, I've said and I repeat three times, we've been working on everything, we've made a recommendation to the public notaries to do a stop since the day the earthquake happened and these results caused by Covidom-19. No executioner has received an executive solution, no action, no execution, no actions. Within a week, we will unblock 240,000 citizens in time of 3 months when they will be able to fully manage their incomes in full amounts. As for the others, if I did not say in advance something that needs to be discussed on professional bodies, I would not want to be hasty to make sure that at this point we stop and help as many Croatian citizens as possible at the risk of this health threat in a way that we will stop as much as possible with the executive procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198664	Thank you. Next we have two replicas to the secretary of state, Mrs. Buric. We have, first is colleagues Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic. A little intervention, so we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198665	Dear Secretary of State, you have proudly pointed out in your presentation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the first step of 3,200 kuna in the second of 4,000 kunas net and around 5,200 gross for more than 80,000 employers and about 500,000 Croatian workers. I wonder if you can give us information on how much of these 500,000 workers before the crisis and before the decision on the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had a salary greater or significantly greater than that 3,200 kuna or 4,000 kuna or whether you can tell us how many of them fell to the minimum because of this government decision and whether these employers will still feel this crisis or not, or whether it will fall on the back of those 500,000 workers. And on the other hand, I have to comment that in your comparison of support from the SDP government I have an impression, I hope I'm wrong, as if you're lucky that this crisis hit Croatia so that you can say that HDZ has given 500,000 support, which is much less than he was giving the SDP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's exactly what I noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198666	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198667	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Giujic, I'm sorry that your feeling is cheating on you, it's very cheating on you. So I'll repeat our focus is health protection and on the other hand protection of all jobs. That is why we have provided an additional 8.5 billion kuna for the support measure to preserve jobs. What I must also tell you is that today we have 84,000 demands for about 500,000 workers, and so far we have paid about 600 million kuna. We're working at five speeds and moving on intensively. I just want to say that in the HZZ which is the implementing body for this measure, officials work in two shifts, so it is really intensive and what is our main intensity and the main goal is to preserve jobs. Also facilitating employers, facilitating workers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198668	Thank you. Next replica of colleague Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198669	Mrs Buric argued in her presentation that the measures of the government of the Republic of Croatia are equally supported by employers, workers and trade unions. It's only partially true. So you've respected almost all the proposals that came from the HUP, but not a single proposal that came from the union. Moreover, an amendment to the Labour Act has been prepared in your ministry to derogate workers' rights. That's fortunately prevented at the GSV session at least for the time being. Can you tell me if you are planning to bring any changes to the Labour Law in due time or if you are planning something else that we have already heard to suit workers, rather than going towards breaking this crisis just over their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198670	Thank you. Here's an answer from the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198671	Thank you very much. So that component, which is unfortunately unpredictable, is the duration of this entire crisis related to the crown, i.e. Covid-19. Our short-term measures and the medium-term measures are presented, before you. What I am extremely pleased about is that a very high consensus has been reached, I will repeat both employers and workers and unions and the overall social community and I believe that in any case it is something that is very important at this time and because of the feelings of our citizens and the sense of security and protection in very, very difficult and challenging times. Anyway, what I also have to tell you is that we've opened absolutely all the questions, we've assumed all the questions and we're considering [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198672	Thank you. And the last set of replicas on Secretary of State Zrinasic. There you go. You don't have a replica anymore. First up, she's a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198673	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have spent a lot of time with us in this crisis, and in your opening statement, you have explained what you have done, what you have done, what you intend to do. We don't normally think in GLAS that the state should always and every time everything is very sharp and everything needs to be regulated and regulated, but when it comes to banks, when it comes to the moratorium on loans, when it comes to the lying houses that colleagues were talking about in the opening presentation, we don't think that it can just work on a deal between the resolution minister and the banks, so that banks decide, we think it should also be defined by law. Don't let it happen to us that behind this crown epidemic and the downfall of the economy, the only one who will benefit from it and come out richer will be the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198674	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198675	Here, thank you very much. I agree with your suggestion in terms of the treatment of all entities in this crisis and the financial sector mentioned. Of course, this one division of all the participants in this situation is very important in terms of balance and tomorrow the continuation of life, as well as our citizens, and economic operators, and ultimately the financial institutions that in their part this is leaning on or these former ones are leaning on them. We have had some further proceedings that financial institutions have launched against the Republic of Croatia for, due to the adoption of certain legal norms that we still have court proceedings outside the Republic of Croatia, and in that sense, the government in the first steps has been better agreed than imperative if it is possible. Of course, this tall home and all together We'll bring certain regulations that are best. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198676	Thank you. Comrade coat of arms, here's another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198677	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, of course, and my question will be focused on the moratorium on loans, you understand why. I got word today by a gentleman with his situation, a loan he took last year, a war of 3,000 kunas a month, a clear principal in this year has paid nothing back. In order to get a six-month stay, so to get a refund of $18,000, the bank will account for an interest of more than 12,000. Do you think that's okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198678	Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198679	Thank you very much. Now you've brought up one case that is probably and life-like, I really can't get into the calculations right now, but the situations that have happened so far, or today, in terms of the crisis triggered by the corona virus, they're not at all comparable, so we're going to agree, and what this crisis is about to take action is to take those measures that were unimaginable until yesterday. So in this sense, what we are discussing today and what will be discussed in the coming days and making appropriate decisions will certainly require some measures that may not have been imagined in the past, and so this question that you are now asking, indeed weighs now what is right, you are a lawyer in the given conduct in terms of the Law on Mandatory Relations and other measures that, in certain exceptional circumstances, are necessary to take, this is something that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198680	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198681	Thank you, Vice President. So, first of all, I would like to say that all state secretaries here represent the government and I can't say that they don't represent the government, if they don't represent the government, they shouldn't have come here, she should have come as Prime Minister and Minister. Why is the suspension of the moratorium on loans of 3 months not sufficient? Because people took credit for example. in tourist activity extended either quality or expanded their accommodation facilities. This season is gone, it is clear to all of us, because the crown must stop not only in Croatia it must stop throughout Europe or around the world for tourists to go at all. Those people already know. What does it mean to them if after three months they have to pay off the loan, and they don't make money because this year they won't make any money. So, come on, let's approach the reasonable problem, reasonablely. So this proposal of ours to be for a year until they start working, until they start working is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198682	Thank you. Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198683	Thank you very much for asking. The measures launched by the Government during March and relating to the Coronal Virus, of course, are seen in terms of other Member States that are economically stronger and more powerful in terms of the construction of measures concerning the state budget. In this part and other measures that are not directly related to the state budget, of course the government has watched other Member States do so since we are EU members. Indeed, it is one graduation and degree of measures, so that the synchronicity and solidarity of all participants is now extremely important and not only as a flossula, and not only as a flossula, but also as an necessity to overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198684	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the proposal, actually, a set of laws. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, so she is a colleague of Grozdana Peric's. Here you go, after the intervention, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198685	Respect for the esteemed vice president, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, first and foremost to the Government, and we must always respect all the good proposals that are possible to always be accepted and incorporated into even better legal proposals. What we cannot accept at this time, which is this set of your laws, the SDP proposal, primarily because, as you know, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, and unfortunately, the earthquake that took place on the 22nd of this month and last month, so the two situations that were in any scenario were actually amazing. When the government agreed on those first March measures, it was only thinking about what would happen and what would be the consequences of the pandemic, and you know very well that when any measure is taken that all facts must then be considered, all the effects that would be and how such a situation would reflect both on the economy and on private lives, and in the first place on the health of the population or the whole nation. Therefore, when such measures are taken, they must be very well thought out. You have to take full parameters as if you're doing a new budget because all of the details you have to take care of. So in that first set, the measure covered what we had previously adopted, and we cannot say that it was very bad at that moment. The second set of measures came after this not even 15 days and today we adopted it and you must admit that there are many factors involved that have helped and calmed the whole situation and the uncertainty that has been caused by these two disasters. In the first part of the fee itself was 3,250 plus contributions, now it is 4,000 plus contributions, and in the meantime you see that there have been changes in that everything, every employer who fired a part of the worker precisely because of this uncertainty that he will be able to continue to work, has been given the opportunity to bring these employees back, and at this point there are 13,600 employees who then exercise the right, so they do not interrupt the employment relationship and return to the system of work and have the right to compensation of 4,000 kuna increased for the contributions that are once again on the burden of the state budget and what is important to say that the weight of these measures is over 8.5 billion kuna. At this point, we know that over 60,000 taxpayers, or entrepreneurs, have requested this measure and that more than 600 million kunas have already been paid. Very soon, so in the month, and only a practical application was made. What you should also say is that in, that citizenship and what you have in certain legal requirements is actually a request for a moratorium and so on. credit obligations are all understood, but at this point what we have brought is that through the amendments to the General Tax Law we have regulated exactly the possibility of these obligations being suspended temporarily, to stop the implementation and for all other public duties, and it is certainly always a question of what, after 3 months or after 6 months. And it's perfectly justified that we all think about it because each one of us has or has or has credit obligations and certainly doesn't care when that obligation arrives. However, let the government do and do these, these two packages that will be adopted within a very short period of time, and a new measure that will allow citizens to be so much more peaceful and that it can function in this way. It's already mentioned today what happens and when it's going to happen. In fact, it's very important how long it's going to take this particular measure that's caused by Covido-19. And what remains secretly to us in the following certainly 7, 8 if not for many years, which is these measures that will need to be done to help citizens rebuild apartments, houses, historical sights, churches, etc. and we will certainly have much help from EU funds. What we are also talking about when we talk about a set of these measures is about paying VAT, I have already mentioned that in the VAT projection for this year there were over 50 we expect revenue 55 and some billion kuna and now after this everything that happens pandemic, there is no tourism, there is no consumption, and besides these elemental disasters, then we can assume how much impact all this will have on the revenue side of the budget that cannot expect so much charge and which will have to think very much about a lot of other sources of funding. We must not forget that it is already in previous measures that it is possible for companies to private up to 7.5 million traffic or over 7.5 with a 20 per cent or more drop in traffic to 50%, that the possibility of partly prolonging, reprogramming, to write off part of the claim and debt, therefore a large part of these measures has already been consumed and I think that the Government has responded in a very good and rapid way about all of this. What you just insisted on, and this secretary of state expected to answer your question, so it really can't happen if something isn't caused by disease, infection, etc. that pay compensation cannot then be compensated from a source of compulsory health insurance, then there are other measures because you know it is illegal. So you can't prejudge something, so you can't be sick, but there was a measure for it, and there's a way that you can pay off on a different basis, and another way that can be helped, and eventually it's accepted and we finally adopted it. So when we look at the total of these measures that are now over 45 billion kuna plus 20 billion that have reached commitments from previous periods, then you see that the set of these measures is over 9.6% of our GDP, which is certainly more than many other European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198686	Thank you, thank you. We're continuing on behalf of the clubs. Next registered counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. A colleague of Zekanovic does not have and in accordance with Article 233 he loses the right to talk about this item of the agenda for, throughout the entire debate. We continue with the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, colleagues of Grmoje and colleagues of Bulj shared the debate. First one's a colleague of the Grmoi. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198687	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we warned with that first package of government measures that these measures would not be enough, we said that we needed to go to the write-off, not to the delays, and the government listened to us. At that time, no amendment to the opposition was accepted. Not because these amendments were bad because it proved later that the government was all what we were saying at the Most but also other colleagues actually accepted, but they weren't accepted just because they came from the ranks of the opposition. Today we have the same situation, the second, second round of the Government package, all the amendments we have given have been rejected and it can be concluded that in this crisis situation the opposition shows unity and constructiveness, and by ruling again shows one party boredom. This is what grieves all over this story, and in particular the sadness that those first to be thought of, to whom the first should be intended package they will come third in a row, in the third round after Easter. Our seniors, our pensioners, our unemployed, our blocked and completed. MOST first thinks of you or think of you first, not as the last, as those on which the measures will be taken after the Easter. We asked the Croatian Parliament to continue the session, to support itself or our proposal because we too have a proposal on a moratorium on loans and performances or a proposal from colleagues from the SDP, but we do not even ask for that. Give you your ruling proposal, give your government colleagues your proposal we will gladly raise your hand to him. Our citizens who are the most endangered in our society deserve a peaceful and peaceful Easter, deserve a resurrection without a cold, a resurrection without fear, a Easter in joy with their families. So much for me, and hopefully here you'll change your mind, there's still time, the president of the assembly can call and tomorrow's session of the assembly, the government can give its measures and we'll be happy to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198688	Please stop the time for a moment, thank you. A little intervention. Thank you, ma'am or miss. Here you go, fellow Bull, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198689	My colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representatives of the government, why am I partly disappointed? Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said so too, but it is noticeable in the general public that the opposition is making constructive proposals, and that the Government simply rejects them, and anything proposed constructively by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the opposition accepts it. These measures that the MOST has also given, and we are now discussing the SDP measures especially about the most endangered, about the postponement of the credit, about the delay of the performance, that's what the first tribal is about, the first measure. These people are the most endangered right now. No one would forgive these people, but it would be delayed if they weren't responsible for this crisis. And what he would point to here, today was a vote on the results of Croatian politics, poor conduct of Croatian agriculture, bad leadership, so I gave the law on the ban on the sale of agricultural land. The government rejected it, both foreign and legal, foreign and legal individuals. It is the government of the Republic of Croatia, the honourable representatives of the government, the citizens, if you are looking, who refused to sell agricultural land, refused my proposal to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. And the agricultural land, is, right now, agriculture has said that the wrong policies we had mainly towards agriculture so that it disappoints me that the opposition is constructive at this point, accepts all the proposals that you government representatives make, and you reject all of ours from the opposition, but these are proposals for the benefit of the citizens. Well, a lot of the suggestions I've made for SDP hasn't voted for them, but this is a good proposal, I'll support it. You would hardly accept any amendment, any proposal from the opposition. Why? Because you're using both the crisis and this health and economic crisis exclusively for the PR, and that's not good, everyone here is equal, we're all at risk. Thus, when we are discussing these laws and speaking now with us at Easter today, he represented the council in this crisis, of course, that they should be much, much more constructive from the position of power. If we're looking for a delay, because now it's SDP law, and MOST suggested it, the MOST Club and this and other colleagues in the opposition don't see any reason why you wouldn't accept it and why the government didn't put that measure into emergency procedure and we would vote again today or come tomorrow. And not now for Easter you leave that space, the greatest Christian holiday I congratulate from this place I wish all happy and blessed Easter, the greatest Christian holiday to all our citizens. For days, it was broken whether markets should be opened, so of course the triba with all the respect measures because it is more likely to be infected by the coronary virus in a closed area trade chain, but foreign products are sold there, and domestic products were mostly sold in the markets. Here I hear the announcement now and it is my pleasure that after a long, long application will open up markets that should not have been closed at all, but with all the criteria of respect that the Tribals would respect as in trade chains, but better to buy Italian pomidores, it is better to buy strawberries than this Spain than Vrgoračka, it is better to buy meaning those products. Here, I would say in the end that I am disappointed that we are not continuing to work while all groups of unemployed, retired, particularly completed and blocked and, of course, all these measures he has proposed in this case suggest opposition to what we are leaving. The government could have made this simple, it could have made a proposal for its additions and we could have settled it in this big week before it meant Big Thursday and Big Friday. In this way we would actually come to a solution and a peaceful Easter. In the end, you would wish all the citizens a happy and blessed Easter, hopefully if there are measures here, you see 151 of us here that on this greatest Christian holiday and Croatian believers will have the possibility under all measures either within the sacral churches, either outside churches, here you in the government or in front of churches or in the courtyards will be allowed at least to share, not all, part of the people, the believers can unfortunately have the opportunity to participate in this greatest Christian meanings on Easter, the greatest Christian holiday and the sacrament. And once again, I wish you all a happy and blessed Easter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198690	Thank you. We are continuing to debate on behalf of the club of MPs, next is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, in front of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Taritash. So five minutes dark, five minutes Taritate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198691	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the Crown Virus or Covida-19, no matter what we call it, has caused major changes in our lives. One of these changes will also be seen on the greatest Christian holiday of Easter that we will certainly not be working in a circle of some broader family because everyone is staying home and I really respect that if you are guarding yourself, guarding someone else and keeping everyone around you and we are taking care of it. We sit here at a distance, we don't shake hands, we take care of each other, and when we talk to someone, we use space. And that's all the coronary virus has changed, but something hasn't changed. It did not change that when it comes to opposition proposals that they will get their place in the Croatian Parliament in the worst time, so now not even the evening term, but after the vote, this package of laws won and did not change that when the opposition gives amendments, that these amendments, no matter how reasonable they may be, how helpful they might even be, that they refuse to explain themselves. I'm just going to refer to me as the favorite amendment that was rejected today by our club, we've given an amendment that is related to office leaders and tourism that, because of the Corona virus or Covida-19, they no longer need to know foreign language. So when the coronary is a virus or a Covida-10, those who run offices, they don't have to know foreign language with tourism. And now we say the amendment of my people so don't do crazy things, it has nothing to do with it, and it's being rejected, and it's quite serious, the secretary of state has explained why it's happening, if you're asking me why, I don't know, but it's been pretty serious. But let's get back to this subject. The first set of measures that was in March, I must admit that I'm always somehow trying to understand, so whether or not I agree with that first set of measures that we can call March I understood. We didn't know what the scales were, no matter what the crown was rolling behind the hills when it came to Europe, someone got a little better, someone got a little worse. It was not a willingness to bring some options, or some variants, because it did not know how long this would take. So I had this first set of measures that way. The second set of measures I called April 1 0, because with the certainty that a second set of measures will come in April which we will call April 2 0, all those who spoke can't go in just a delay you have to write off, you have to define something. We spoke as opposition MPs, they spoke to the businessmen, they all said, and in that second set of measures, some things were heard. And you saw that at the vote that was today and that was 130 of us, I don't remember when we were, the last time we were 130 when there was a set of measures or a little less of those Marchs, it just means that after all, the MPs, no matter how we were perceived, are responsible. We are responsible for what we are saying, we are responsible for certain crisis situations and this responsibility and opposition parliamentary deputies are really ready to take over on their backs and no matter what you're discussing and with some things you disagree with and some things you warn us that now the situation is next, which is that we need to support and support a set of measures, but for tango we need two. Tango doesn't go to one, so no matter how you turn around, but the other one's just like that, he's gone to sleep somewhere, and he's waiting somewhere. That's what I'm saying between, so the opposition suggests something, and on the other hand it's a government that's pretty hard to say that these things can't be accepted, but then at some headquarters conferences that I can really say that it seems to me that it's doing a good job, it's using time to deal with some political inexperiences, which is not good. So, at these moments, the opposition has made clear everything from the government that comes, and we conclude that it is good that it will help the citizen, we will support the citizens, but we also think that the time when the opposition proposes something, so sit down, talk, let's talk. And it's not even a problem that then the government in some package April 2 0, May 1 0 or that took what was there and said here we took and said one sentence is the subject of a common agreement. As long as the crown lasts, it should listen to experts and they somehow predict how it will grow, fall, linearly and everything else. What will be the consequences of the Corone or Covida-19 on the economy that no one, regardless of the experiences they have, can predict. It seems to us that this crisis is to be used for a few things. The first thing to take advantage of is a little look at our laws being written. They're being written unreasonablely, written in a way that we don't want them to be understood by anyone, complicated, complicated in procedures, we tend to complicate where we shouldn't. Maybe one of the situations, or the outcome of this crisis, that we all think about it together a little bit. I will only take one example, of course I live in the City of Zagreb, until the City of Zagreb would care, an example of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the behaviour of the City of Gas. People closed the gas in houses that weren't even damaged by the earthquake because they were well built. The gas station said okay, to let you gas out, you have to come to us, you have to fill in 3 or 4 requirements in the context of the crown only you come to us maybe someone has, so we'll split it up and pay 3,000 kuna and then when you do all that, then we'll make a list of priorities and we'll go and release that gas. My people, if it weren't true, it would be for one of those comedies or soap operas, but that's true. So, the first time I heard it from a guy in the city gas station, I was sitting at home, I thought I heard something wrong, I heard something. So, from this crisis, maybe we could come out smarter because look at the e-citizen working neatly, everything works through emails, let's be something smarter and try to see the regulations and see what we regulate and how we regulate it. Another thing we should be able to get out of this crisis, we should be clearly wondering what kind of economy we want for Croatia, whether we want to hang on to tourism, whether we want to only hang on to imports and certain services, or if we think something else is going on here. Today we voted for the amendments to the Agriculture Act, which in the sense of no one at all is disputed, but in the debate we're the Minister of Resorna was with us, we said something we might need to take well-meaningly, we think the time has come when agriculture is for a serious reset. Something about that farm and the way we work is wrong. This is the moment when we can reset ourselves, we can take the green plan that the EU has made regarding climate change, more climate change after 2 months we no longer mention ourselves, and two months ago our mouths were full of climate change, see what the green threshold for agriculture is, and maybe it's a strategy for the development of Croatia's agriculture with some adjustments. From this set of laws, it is especially important that the law which speaks of a delay is related to loans. No, and that's what I said to the secretary of state, and I repeat, and now for the rest of this pay phone, don't let this crisis that's hit us all, we still don't know what the scales are, the ones that come out unscathed or richer, be banks, like it was in every crisis. Let's try to really take care of our citizens and the problems they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198692	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The last reported debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives was a debate reported by counterpart Tomislav Žagar, in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198693	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear State Secretarys and State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. The HSU Club, independent representatives, New Politics and SNAGA will support this set of laws proposed by the SDP Club because one member of our club participated actively in the preparation of these laws. Why is that? Well, this set of laws, first of all, all those measures that the government, which we voted today, are vertical and horizontally expanding. Vertically in the amount of compensation and assistance to be provided, and horizontally to most of our citizens who are not covered by these measures that we adopted here at HS today. Namely, the secretary of state here when she initially explained why the government rejects these bill proposals, I apologize, that's a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club said two important dates, one date was March 19th when the pandemic was declared and the second date was March 22nd when the earthquake was in Zagreb. Why do I mention these two laws? We can see that this process is extremely turbulent and dynamic and that the government, at least so far, has not shown the right way of planning, planning future activities, but is exclusively used for what is otherwise used when steering or managing, requires some kind of feedback, so on 23rd of the earthquake in Zagreb, the 23rd of March center has made a decision to ban leaving the place of residence. Watch out, places of residence, and then this caused a huge amount of passes that were issued because we have 6756 seats in Croatia. That picture shows how things work out only when they come up, and little is planned in advance. Of course, respecting the fact that it's hard to do things and plan ahead. The second thing that matters, as far as these measures are concerned, was not a great situation before the outbreak in the Republic of Croatia. So, even before the outbreak occurred, 140 thousand people were at the Employment Service, but we must not forget the large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had left the Republic of Croatia before that and hired in other countries. We also see that these citizens are returning to the Republic of Croatia, they have no place to go but to the Employment Service, and since the adoption, since the announcement, since the crisis occurred, we see that a large number of citizens have already ended up at the Employment Office. It is true that these government measures can be re-employed and re-received, this amount provided for in the measures. It is seen here that this is a serious, serious crisis and that what the secretary of state has highlighted, and what is the most important parameter in the whole crisis, which is the time of this crisis, which no one can predict how long it will last. So we have an extremely dynamic and busy period in which entrepreneurs will have to respond to the challenges ahead. That's why I think this set of measures is good, but the government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact, the Ministry of Finance, the minister, will have to respond as soon as possible to what kind of rebalancing is expected of the budget in the future. To that question, I think it's going to be the biggest, the biggest challenge on this issue is going to be. And what is crucial is why these measures should be supported. The government will certainly think of them if it does not support them, because although the announcement of this third set of measures will be directed towards citizens, so that it will not be late, because as I said, citizens who are already at the Employment Service, everyone who, whether earlier, has now gone to the Bureau, all who have had problems serving their obligations, especially loans, there are, of course, students, pensioners who find it difficult today. It's hard for them for a number of reasons, and mostly for the fact that their pensions are small, and then this crisis hit them. For all these citizens, therefore, measures should be taken to facilitate and enable them to live and overcome this difficult situation. When GDP is growing, the biggest benefit is those who are richer, but even when GDP falls, it breaks over the back of the poorest, and therefore these measures are very important. In the last debate there when we had in the INA building I mentioned it, I will mention again, that, not by chance, and the financial sector will not hesitate to come out of this process uncircumcised, and in fact they will try to come out uncircumcised in all ways, and that is what the credit rating agency which has reduced Croatia by one degree. Their assessment that GDP would fall by 5%, this could mean according to that rough, budget that the unemployment rate would be 2.5% at least and that is 50,000 people without jobs and these are the things that we will have to answer because it is about citizens who will be out of work, employers of course who will have to close their trades or their businesses and because of these things we need to think about measures as soon as possible and bring them forward. That's why I think this set of measures is good, we'll support them at the club, and I'm telling the government to think hard if he doesn't want to accept the proposals coming from the opposition, and we see that this is the case, so let the public, as soon as possible, have a set of measures that will allow citizens to overcome this crisis and live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198694	Thank you, too. We ended the discussion on behalf of the clubs. We're continuing an individual debate. I'd like to ask Miss for a little intervention, and then a colleague of mine, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198695	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the adoption of this second package, I believe that most of these legal proposals on behalf of the SDP Club will be implemented through the regulation and the former provisions of certain laws. Likewise, certain legislative proposals are not intended to say so to the address to which they might be said, but what I think is also why I came forward for an individual debate and wanted to share with you, and also to point out one problem that first and foremost my colleague Lalovac and I have been talking about in this assembly for a long time, which is a liquidity problem. And this directly binds to this law on credit forgiveness because when we talk about liquidity, then citizens are also liquid and liquid. So, did this legal proposal cover all the obligations that Croatian citizens have. Not only do Croatian citizens have only loans, they also have a commitment to leasing societies and a commitment to card houses, a commitment to insurance companies, a commitment to teleopers and a number of other obligations. Therefore, this law, and I think that the Government is thinking about it, must be complete and must cover all aspects of the obligations that our citizens have. Also, colleagues and colleagues should not forget that over the past few years Croatian entrepreneurs from craftsmen have had an extremely high investment cycle, investing money in economic activities. And many of them have found themselves in this package of measures that the government has proposed, which is to pay salaries and not have to pay pension and health for the simple reason, whether because of the provisions of the headquarters, whether because of this or that reason they simply stopped doing business. And we're talking about a moratorium on loans, so we just have to put all of them in those packages. And that's why the law deserves far wider scope, deserves far more attention for reasons, if we don't approach it that way she thinks we're going to make a lot of trouble. The other thing, from a month ago and a few days ago when there was a law on insurance in the assembly I repeat about the responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. To be honest, I expected that both business banks and Leasing companies and insurance companies would come out with some package of their own when this crisis started with one single goal to protect those who bring them profits. Because they, if those who took up credit with them who made insurance policies or who took something to Leasing if they can't pay them first, put them in trouble. So they should be in the interest of finding that first package. And I think the government is talking in that direction. We have heard that the CNB has already brought about certain changes that they can react to, and if in such a way we could approach this problem which I believe is crucial to the state's funding problem in the coming months, then the law would be comprehensive. And it's a good idea for a colleague from the SDP Club to propose it as a law, but this bill of yours solves only one small segment, just one small segment. Because what difference does it make whether you have to pay the loan or whether you need a war lying to society or whether you need to pay the war to the insurance company, no. It's your obligation that if, and what I think is still important at this point, if you work normally, you do business, you get paid, then this measure doesn't have to apply to you. This measure should apply to those who do not function normally, who do not receive salaries and ultimately we as a social state must take care of our citizens. And I'm saying I think the government will come out with a package that will certainly take care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, without intending to tell you, but colleagues and colleagues you've only dealt with this law one little segment, and that's why I wanted to share this debate with you because I think Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198696	We have one replica, please you can stay. He's a friend of Sagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198697	Dear fellow Shuker, I agree with you, it's true it would be very good for the banks to decide to negotiate with their clients to see which way it goes. However, this so you know from experience doesn't work, it just doesn't work, it's about positions of power, banks are extremely powerful compared to their clients, especially citizens. And actually this, as far as I understand it, is going towards the weakest, the most vulnerable, because with them banks are hardly going to negotiate. It is therefore necessary to define legal frameworks to create moratories on commitments, but not in such a way as to further accumulate interest later, but to simply buy that time for these people, so that while they overcome the crisis, they can continue to serve their obligations. Of course you're right when you talk about other obligations, like, according to the Leasing societies and everyone else, but I think it's from the position that it's hard to expect that banks will work that way. They still need to be legally forced to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198698	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198699	Comrade Sagar, that you listened carefully to what they said, I said that legally, if we need to, we need to solve everything. And the normal thing is that we have to think about those who are the most vulnerable, that we have to react here, but I repeat, everyone in their segment is important. And I guess the banks burned after that big crisis 10 years ago and how great they are. The placements had to be converted into non-refundable claims and that they would think and think about how to save those who ultimately bring them profits and repay loans and pay interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198700	Thank you. The next debate is a debate from fellow Pernar. And a little intervention from my colleague Pernar. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198701	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The solutions this government has for the current crisis are not adequate and will not solve it, and I will explain why. The main problem is with loans, by putting on a moratorium, the cause of the problem is not solved. The problem is that these loans will ultimately need to be paid back and that many people living on tourism during the summer months are expensive money to pay off the loan for the rest of the year. However, in this case, what will happen? Moratorium will last, for example. For the next few months, they'll run out of money from the season, it's just a season, for example. failed, which is very likely to happen and suddenly end this extraordinary state of Beroshevo. Yeah, this isn't gonna last forever. And what happens when it goes away? And then the banks will say now, look, there's no state of emergency, the loans have to go back, and the revenues from this summer are gone. Where are these people gonna get your loans back from? They've got nowhere to go. Another problem, all the time this moratorium, interest is accounted for. So are you aware of what that means? Where are people gonna get those interest back from? The legislator doesn't care. Here's an identical example of the work. The government says we're introducing a moratorium to execution. And what does that mean in practice? Well, in practice, it means that the same scheme goes on the same way. It's not going to stop now, it's just going to bring down that waterfall, as soon as these measures are cut off, and the reason for this whole executive hell is that the performances are actually given to public notebooks, which they can account for whatever fees and what ultimately, you have enormous costs of the execution, so people don't necessarily kill the debt for water of 200 kuna, but they get killed by the costs of the execution. They're getting killed by the fee that FINA's taking. FINA is taking an enormous fee. Did the government solve that question? No, I don't. The government neither solves the issue of interest, or there are no interest moratories, nor does it think about what will be left of income with people this summer, and when the moratorium passes, it will have to. Yes, when the moratorium passes and this state of emergency passes, it will have to continue to repay the loan, it has nowhere to go. The government doesn't care about that. This solution that the government has, you know what these solutions are? These are short-term solutions. Maybe the government has a solution to the election of parliamentarys at 9:00. I mean, what's it gonna be in 10, 11, 12, 1, 2, 3. Mesa, 5 months. Next year? And the government doesn't think about it. This is one crazy way, this policy has no vision whatsoever. Also, there's one more thing I want to say. If the population is not divided into young and old, both healthy and sick, and it will go with a general quarantine story that is being imposed on us at all times, it will take a very long time for a critical number of people in the population to get infected and get over the crown. Yeah, that's the problem. It's going to take a very long time, instead of being, because young people, they have no mortality at all, 0.1%. Instead of allowing young people to get over, get immunity, a critical part of the population to have resistance to this virus and end with quarantine measures, quarantine measures will be delayed indefinitely. And you know what kind of solution they're going to offer? Then he'll offer as a solution, what? The vaccine. And then they'll tell my people, we have to protect the weaker. But you all need to be vaccinated. And what about those who refuse to vaccinate? He'll be in trouble again. I don't see where this policy leads, I can't understand people who support the general instead of selective quarantine. I don't know how many more months they're planning on keeping the whole people in this agony because people are mentally firing and they can't take this condition anymore. But nobody cares about that, and half the country's on the minimal, which is what those who are unemployed and who were planning to do, seasons, have nothing to live on, so nobody cares. The state doesn't regulate it at all, I asked Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic, what about those who don't have a fee from the Stock Exchange? What do they live on now that they can't find a job? And Plenkovic says, Alardovic will find a solution. I don't see him yet. When will this solution come? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198702	Thank you, colleague Pernar. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Sasa Djujic, please a little intervention, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198703	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues from the SDP. So here's how much the government is interested in our measures and our proposals, this shows that there aren't any MPs in the hall right now except for the SDPs. So, they're full of the mouth of the community and all that... Now you're in, now you're in [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you're in. ... [[Intruder: Mr. Pernar.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198704	Mr. Pernar, Mr. Pernar Mr. Djujic, Mr. Pernar. [[You're in from the outside now.]] Mr. Pernar Mr. Pernar. ... [[Intruder: Yes.]] Mr. Pernar, a reminder [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm not gonna throw him out, but I'm giving him a warning, this behavior is not appropriate. [[Don't kick him out because then he'll say you threw him out on purpose so I can say there's no one but us.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198705	Here, I welcome fellow Pernar who just returned and fellow Shucker who has now entered, thank you very much. So what I'm saying is, this is already the 3rd package of measures SDP is proposing. 3. package, so after the first two of which none of them were adopted, none of them were accepted. So we propose certain solutions and certain measures that the Government then partially accepts after a while. The same thing is with this package. So here and just now, my colleague Schucker said in his debate that we're covering a small part, a small segment of the problem when we're talking about a moratorium on loans, that we haven't fully worked it out and worked it out, let's just say that the government is going to cover that part in its future action, and it's going to work it out together. But he didn't tell his colleague Shuker that our proposals, for example, were not working. He didn't say, because he knows that he's part part of it, part of it's good. I listened well, I heard it all right. Well, what's the problem, you know what my colleague Shucker is? We are proposing these packages because the ruling HDZ has not included the opposition since the first day of the conversation. You didn't turn it on. You can nod all you want. You're not. You are sitting alone with yourself and this second package of government measures that was now, which was delayed in part you presented to your coalition partners, and you did not find it appropriate to invite opposition representatives to this conversation, you did not. Because you don't need us, because you don't care what we have to say, and that shows this hall here today. Empty, just you fellow Shucker, here you are, and colleague Pernar. And my colleague Pernar. ... So when I don't have anyone, how am I supposed to, what am I gonna mention about Sanader when he's not here? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What am I going to say? Who? I mean, what am I going to say, here, a colleague I don't know, who? Who? You tell me, fellow Shuker, when you're alone. There's no one here. Nobody cares. The SDP is a colleague here, is, is, we've had enough. So, look, we suggest, you don't listen, you don't care. Another thing again, so it's not the devil that none of our proposals are right. We are in this package of measures, I am now not going to enter into each individual, but colleagues Bernardic and Lalovac said in the introduction, this is the third package that includes citizens, citizens who are also the most socially endangered of whom the government has not considered at the moment. I'm not saying he won't think in his third package. But I don't understand why the opposition isn't involved. You say, "Here's a good suggestion, and you didn't even bother to fix it." So today we wouldn't be discussing this or counting here if Prime Minister Plenkovic's first day had called all the presidents of the opposition parliamentary parties and said, let's hear, let's all heads together, who has any suggestions. So maybe one part of our measures would be included already in the government's package and instead, and all the time you're talking here, make suggestions, thank you, but that's not enough. It's not good, but we're going alone. We only represent coalition partners. Gentlemen, this concerns the entire country, both left and right and all citizens, not just HDZ and its coalition partners. And for that, here we appeal to you, let us in, so we can't wait until you remember something, until you remember citizens with credits. Well, we had to propose a law. We don't have another model. Our representatives didn't sit with the government's representatives at the meeting so they could make some kind of suggestion there, so here you are, fellow Shuker, you complete it and you say, and you made a good proposal. Here, there's only the ones with the loans, there's no lying, there's no insurance houses, there's no such thing as that, so we could do a whole proposal together. And this is how we have to make suggestions when you don't listen to us, you don't want to hear us. You're saying it's not time for politicizing, and it's yesterday as a charger. Plenkovic, Sanader, Bozinovic, in his uniform on the fifth, 5th day in a row, calls counterpart Bernardic and SDP. That's, what's that? That's not politicizing? You've got suggestions, you've got suggestions, we'll respect everything, you don't respect anything today. You haven't accepted any of our amendments today. So what exactly are all our suggestions stupid? Well, I didn't realize it from your discussions that we're proposing nonsense or stupidity, but even praise it, but look, what, we're enough for ourselves. That's not good. We're not at war, but we're not in any ordinary condition. And not to mention, this session procedure, first in that building of INA over there, and today here and limiting replicas and speeches, I hope that from the 15th time we get back to our building things will go back to normal. I don't have any more time, but I expect we'll get back to normal and start listening to us as an opposition. Because, look, this situation will pass, I hope as soon as possible. Maybe in a month, maybe in two. Maybe in 3 and then they'll [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to file accounts. [[Intruder: Stay here.]] So it won't be binco Support, we can all the time... [[We have 3 replicas.]] Okay, thank you, here, just to finish the thought. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198706	Thank you. A colleague of Hajdukovic's. Here's the first replica, the second one's a colleague of Shucker's, then a colleague of Jagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198707	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djujic, you're talking about a call for community, this lack of respect for the opposition, so I'd just like to go over there and say that HDZ calls for consensus and for community only when it suits them. And you know how they experience that unity and consensus? "Here you can back us up." And we are not criticizing or criticizing, nor criticizing, but making concrete suggestions. Yeah, maybe some of our proposals aren't perfect, but that's why, in the debate, we should all come up with the best proposals to protect our citizens. And.../incomprehensible... when we do that to HDZ, they reject it. And therefore, I fear that these measures will eventually turn out to be flawed in a lot of things, that they will change many times, that they will contribute to the uncertainty of the labour market and the market in general in the economy and we will actually produce exactly the counterproductive effect of what we wanted, which is to protect citizens, workers, but also entrepreneurs and economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198708	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198709	Comrade Hajdukovic, of course, that all our measures are not perfect, such as the Government's all measures. But two heads are smarter than one, and that's what we've been trying to do all along to deal with this crisis, not to have the HDZ running its story. Well, look, they dropped the Parliament, that debate in the INA about that package last time was nothing, what pro-forma, out there at the President of the Parliament saying you have the right to 2 replicas per club. So they don't even want to listen to us. They won't listen to us today. So it's not going anywhere. So, we should, this is not a HDZ crisis and its coalition partners, but all of Croatia's citizens, and we must have the opportunity to talk together and all the best, every party, every political option that has in its ranks to make it easier for the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198710	Thank you. Next replica, fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198711	Thank you very much. Well, it's not good to say things that aren't right. I'll use the softest expression, if my colleague Bauk were here, he could confirm to you that the Prime Minister has summoned all these leaders and opposition parties and clubs and has exposed them to measures to discuss. So much for that, that's the facts. Secondly, I think my personal debate today was about discussing the subject. Third thing, colleague Djujic, we've known each other for a long time. I was expecting, since I'm the only MP from the opposition here, that you're going to try to put in some arguments to convince me that something is not contained in the existing laws, that I did something wrong. You've been talking all along about how someone like this, how you're somebody like that. Okay, that's what you said, that's what your colleagues will say, but explain why your laws are good, I even said that one law and missed a target because those funds can't pay off what they're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198712	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198713	And fellow Shuker, I expected you to convince us why our laws are not good and that the government did better than us and that we should give up. But on the contrary, you said that one segment did well in this moratorium law on loans, so what do I have to explain to you that this is a good move? Well, you know it better than I do, you said it yourself. In fact, you've spread the story that we haven't covered the Leasing Houses, that we haven't included insurance companies, so here's what we talked about before, we could have given one quality whole law together. And when you said we didn't sit down, that we didn't, that, uh, Comrade Bauk, here he came now, that the Prime Minister invited them to that first package of measures that the entrepreneurs and all welcomed to the knife together. This last vote we voted here today at noon you presented to coalition partners on Thursday and on Friday came to debate after a hasty procedure in HS, i.e. in the basement of the INA on 2 representatives per club. And we couldn't make a contribution, no one listened to us, no amendment was adopted, today Here, who's listening to us? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Who are we talking to?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198714	Thank you. Last replica, colleague Sagar Comrade Sagar, here you go. [[Intruder: My emotions are working.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198715	Dear colleague Djujic. So, you said it right. The situation is quite complex, and when you say that we're going back to normal, then you should keep in mind that this return will be extremely difficult. It is clear that there will be a danger to the health of citizens and that at that moment citizens will start living normally. But back to those positions that weren't good before this crisis, I'm talking about economic situations where citizens were and the economy is going to be difficult to achieve, let alone what we planned before this crisis in terms of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. So it's very important that the government listens to you now, that it really listens to all the good advice because at this point we're just responding to what's happening right now. We are not thinking about what will happen in the future, and in these measures there are many proposals that will affect the future, and so we need to think about what will be in the future because we already need to know what it is, what kind of rebalancing the government will have to propose soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198716	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198717	My debate was like this because five minutes is really little to explain and to explain each of these measures. I think some of them are making their own argument. But why was I talking about this debate? That's because I'm afraid, and I see it, that the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic don't care what we think or care about. There's one proof today. So today he's talking about this law on tracking. He talks, he says, well, you gave all the data to Facebook and Google, so why don't you give it to HDZ? Why don't you give us, too, even so they follow you, so let's follow you. And then the journalists tell them, but it wasn't adopted in the Parliament, today it's, it's a decision to go to another reading, then he says, and well, it's not today, it's going to be adopted next week. So here's how HDZ sees us as the most representative or legislative body in the country. And for that reason I appeal once again to HDZ and to the government, please include representatives of the opposition, listen to us, tell us, this is stupid, this is smart, but we are going together to look for solutions for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198718	Thank you. Next individual debate... The next individual debate is a debate by colleagues from Peja Grbina, here are some interventions. Here you go, buddy Grbin, here you go, thank you. Careful fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198719	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will concentrate on two things that matter to me personally, and I also believe that they are important to a large number of Croatian citizens, and one especially to people from the area I come from, from Istria and the entire Adriatic coast. The first thing is, of course, a moratorium on loans. Dear fellow Shuker, saying just before me, said the law proposed by the moratorium on loans was missing. My answer is, okay, but unlike the government's proposal, at least he exists. The government has not proposed such a missing proposal, the government has proposed nothing. The government has only left it to banks and bankers that, on the basis of their own decision, their own goodwill, their own profit assessment, solve the problem of postponing the loan with their debtors. And what does it look like in practice? A few people came to me, for example, one lady has a loan, she's been paying him off for a while, 3,000 kuna, exactly 2700 kn per month. She will have to pay 6,000 kuna additional interest for the six-month delay, 6,000 kuna. 1,000 kunas have calculated the monthly bank's interest. A gentleman contacted me last year who took a loan, also at war about 3,000 kuna per month, but because he took the loan last year at this point mostly pays interest, and the principal will come in line for some better days. He will postpone by 18,000 kuna for the six months he would have paid during that period of 6 months, so to get a delay in the payment of 18,000 kuna which he will definitely have to pay, to him, the interest for those 6 months exceeds the amount of 12,000 kuna. 12,000 kuna additional interest will be paid to the bank on his loan. And you know what the worst part of it still has to be solemnized by the credit contract annex, and as an amount of course, it will account for the full amount of credit, which means that it will still have 1,500 – 2,000 kuna. So he's going to be spending six months on 15 thousand kunas. For a delay in payment of 18,000 kuna, they will pay 15,000 kuna. With all due respect, it's neither moral nor fair, nor useful. The delay, without the simultaneous delay of payment of interest or the release of interest payments, is not intended. It is only temporary assistance to citizens and citizens who will pay you the same citizens and citizens extremely expensive one day when they start returning credit. And what else is going to happen? Given the duration of only 6 months, and it is evident that many will not return to the position of paying off the loan even longer after that since it only lasts 6 months it does not achieve real effects. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, if you want to help Croatian citizens and citizens, Croatian society and the Croatian economy you do not have to accept the SDP proposal, I support what my colleague Schuker said, make it comprehensive, refer it to the procedure, I will first, I will raise my hand to him first, but you must, you must suspend the course of interest during the delay, otherwise there is no purpose. The other problem I want to talk about is the renter's problem. Household owners do not pay income tax according to actual income, but pay it according to the flat-rate rate determined according to the number of bearings in the frameworks of the prescribed law. Last year we raised the amount of sheets, we made it possible for local self-government units to go up to 1,500 kuna instead of a maximum of 300 kuna earlier, I'm talking about income tax rate, to make it quite clear. So we increased the amount multiplely and it was introduced to pay for additional beds, which was not previously the case. At present, as far as I'm aware, most or almost all of the shoppers have been delayed. However, it is quite clear, it is clear that income from the tourist season in these three months, so 4, 5 and 6, and probably not even afterwards. The delay is fine for now, but please, before the period on which the delay is given, bring a measure of the write-off of the flat-rate income tax from the tenant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198720	Thank you. Stay here please, you have one replica. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198721	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, I had to intervene because my colleague Peja is a lawyer, and I wouldn't want to give him a lecture, but when you have a loan, then you get a payment plan. In the payment plan you have a monthly war that contains war and contains interest and a bank if you do not need to pay the principal, but you have to pay the corresponding part of the interest and that is what we all need to talk about why I said it wasn't just loans to Croatian citizens and businessmen that it has full, but such a figure when you bring it out it's totally incorrect because you're not talking about the same thing, it's not interest on funds that haven't been paid for 3 months. I repeat, when you raise a loan, when you enter a Leasing relationship or anything else you get a payment plan and it is clearly based on the law you know what it contains. So this information of yours is not correct, you got it wrong, and you unfortunately misread it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198722	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My esteemed colleague Shuker didn't get it from me, it was obtained by citizens from banks asking for a postponement of the loan. It was given to the citizens of the banks, the citizens got this bill, and the banks want to charge them for it. And by the way, I know very well that there's interest on the capital. If the loan payment started last year, then you and I know very well that the principal remained intact. And that six months of paying interest on that principal will be very difficult for whoever's taking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198724	Stay still here was still a replica of a fellow Laloveca.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198725	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms I see you mentioned the tenants, but certainly what should be noted is that the government has unfortunately not thought about those who are in the lease of business premises, which are now closed business spaces and when there is no, means the contract between the tenant and the tenant is now zero kuna. However, there is no clear answer from the tax administration or the Government whether they will be charged at market value for this lease, so all these people who rent business premises will receive a fee for either VAT or income tax. So here you're talking about one category, but I think this category, too, means that they're renting business premises so that in 3 or 6 months, VAT or income taxes don't come out, especially when the market doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198726	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198727	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague, but first of all, he would direct his own representatives to the government. Last week I spoke about the problem of renting a business space and there are two problems. The first is the one you addressed, which is the fact that many tenants have freed their tenants from the rent because they are aware that they need good, good people. At the same time, however, regardless of the amount not paid by the lease, the tax administration accounts for the value added tax, but also the income tax or profit tax, and that by assessment. It's not right, and I think the ministry should address it in the relevant tax laws. However, there is another problem, and I ask you to transfer this to the Minister of State Property, which is the problem that there is no possibility in the Law on the Hire of Business Space that there is no possibility that, any state, any local self-government of freedom of the tenants from the obligation to pay or to reduce that obligation. So... We have to change that law, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198728	Thank you. Comrade Matteljan, here you go, no need for intervention, colleague Grbin didn't touch the work space, but fine, if you want then... Well, fellow Mattelian, Mathelan. Damir Mateljan, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Secretary of State. The SDP shows itself in this crisis situation, acts as a responsible and serious party. On the one hand, this is affirmative, so we have accepted in two rounds a package of measures that the Government has sent to debate in this House, which concerns helping those who are at risk of spreading the COVID-19 virus. On the other hand, we're bringing, we're proposing our own measures that unfortunately come across something like this. So, uh, the government's self-interest, the self-interest of ruling MPs actually tells us what the government thinks about these measures, or what they think about the SDP and what they feel unfortunately about the opposition. The government when it also adopted that first set of measures, including the law that we had not debated, is the Civil Protection Act, saying, so on these measures, the Government has also urged the local state to also plant its financial backs and that it is also the local state that will adapt some of its measures to help all those, whether they are citizens or those companies that have died in this crisis. The local state has also done so in a way that it could, freeing the municipal fee, the communal contribution itself, paying the market price of kindergarten so that they can survive, however, what the government did not say, what is in some way not being said, and in this House I have not heard, let alone in the media, and that is that it is, in fact, with those first and other measures that the local state has just planted its back for reasons, because that financial burden on those measures that go as free entrepreneurs is just directed at the only tax, on the only real tax which is exclusively a tax belonging to local self-government, which is income tax. Without income tax, which accounts for almost 70% of all original incomes from local self-government, local self-government can survive this month to two days. Those who are with... Which so far seemed to us to be highly developed areas, won't last a month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is very important to tell people that this one will not have preschool education, that their infrastructure local will be able to disintegrate, that there will be no public lighting, that there will be no public transport, or people need to tell, that these measures will partially save the economy and that they will completely destroy the level of local self-government that we have achieved so far. It will simply be so if we don't come up with compensatory measures that no one talks about, and I understand why no one talks about compensatory measures because there is no money for compensation measures. So when we talk about planting the backs of local self-government, then there are things that don't have just financial weight, but also that organisational weight. The famous name around the pass. Finally, the public and the government have realized that there are over 300 units of local self-government that are simply not functionally whole and cannot function in a way that in that unit local self-government citizens can achieve both rights and all their therefore things they must do, such as, the most banal going to the bank, to the post office, to the pharmacy because you have municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have no banks, no post office, no pharmacy, no elementary school or anything else. And this depends not only on their size or their critical mass, but on their capacitation, both to people and to their financial capacitation. I don't know how much time I have left, so I'm going to figure it out. So usually after all these crises we like to go out with that sentence that's total flossula, which is, we're going to come out of this crisis even stronger and stronger. [[/Intruder: 15.]] We won't. So we'll get out of this crisis weaker and worse. But I hope at least So wiser that what concerns [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The local self-government will go into this reform of the local self-government reform. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198730	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Gordan Maras, colleague Maras, come in. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. I must admit that, I have, I feel strange in this hall and all this together when a man looks at you a little bit sorry and people who work here in the organization and people from HRT because you have a feeling that this is being done as a tower at the moment of the whole situation, or the system of decision-making in the Republic of Croatia, where we, as the Croatian Parliament, are moving from the hall to the hall from Šubićeva to INU, might now be able to go to another hall, in another town, I think that the institution as a Croatian Parliament must participate more and decide in the whole crisis that is happening in the Republic. So, if as a state we do not respect our institutions, if we have a meeting president who here says that the Rules of Procedure are 100% non-respectable, I think it is one of the most recent statements I have heard in the Croatian Parliament or on the other hand says about 129 votes, it sends you a message in fact that the Croatian Parliament as an institution at the moment seems to bother the HDZ, which is also seen from the overall behaviour, work, and at the end of the day and the situation which is now the government in this Chamber, where there is usually no one else. And on the other hand, discussing such important issues in these circumstances sounds pointless, because you see that you're proposing things, very serious things. Because when you propose that citizens do not pay for a year, they have a moratorium on loans it is a very serious thing for Croatian citizens, perhaps of crucial importance to survive the next year, which will be marked by crisis, loss of work, loss of income from tourism and all that is, then I think that such a topic is shown respect for both Croatian citizens and parliament to discuss under normal conditions in front of parliamentary representatives that this topic is accepted with respect and that we eventually come together to a certain solution. Because if the opposition supports the government's measures, so what is not logical is that instead of Vice-President Sanader giving lessons to opposition deputies he takes into account what the opposition is proposing. And the other thing when we suggest also one measure, means that when it comes to parents who at the moment have a problem with organising their lives in general how to educate children, how to stay at home, how to go to work, how to combine it all together, you can't use it in the most part of the grandparents' cases because if parents do, they're exposed, so they can pass on to their children, and then their parents can't look after their children because they can get infected too, so they're huge problems. And if, at that point, we suggest that we take a model by which one parent can stay at home and pay for sick leave, as the Health Insurance Act covers some other examples, so that's a very important topic. It deserves to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, it deserves to be heard, it deserves to be considered and perhaps accepted. We can't accept the situation where the secretary of state comes and says he's not authorized to talk about it here because like he's not the finance minister or not the prime minister, they're the only ones who can. Well, we don't live in a monarchy, where one person decides what can be done, what can't be done. Although it looks like some of them are just fine with you. We live in a parliamentary democracy where parliament plays its part and I am dissatisfied with how it all works now, and I must admit that I will talk about it in the future and when we return to the Hall of the Croatian Parliament and appeal here and to the people sitting in the presidency of the assembly, and I will certainly speak to the representative of our club to simply not allow such a situation. So we live in parliamentary democracy, we're responsible people, we can contribute to this situation as painlessly as possible for our fellow citizens. We don't agree with the statements he made before Mr. Pernar I think that this time we're fighting a crisis is good, that we're all satisfied that we have very few infected and deceased in relation to other countries and we support it and we will continue to support it if it works in a quality way and on the other hand if we can participate We want to participate, we want to enable solutions that will help Croatian citizens to get through this crisis as well as we can and the more painlessly we can not do anything to get Croatian citizens to live normally as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198732	Stay here, please. We have two replicas. He's my first colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198733	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I also think that measures and what the government is doing at this point are good and that it gives good results, and we, with our SDP, as a constructive opposition with our proposals just want it to be better, especially with this third package of measures. We are thinking about the time that comes after this health crisis, meaning in a few months, because we, with our package of measures, have included exactly those citizens that the Government has not included in its activities so far. And that's why I think we should maybe listen a little bit more. And as for the functioning and work of the assembly, I agree with you and I will talk about it all the time and keep warning about it and I want once again here to underline the line that these 15 days, 20 as far as we're not in the building of the Croatian Parliament, but in the basement of the INE there are no days we joined in the order that we have the same rules. So, not to disrespect the Rules of Procedure, but there are no agreements, because today it's worth one thing, tomorrow it's worth something else, then the day after tomorrow it's worth the third, then one chairman respects one rule, the other, and that's not good. We have a Rules of Procedure which is a sacred letter to us in all situations, if anything needs to be changed, then we need to change the Rules of Procedure and we all need to adapt to that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198734	Okay, thank you, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198735	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. I think that if we function as a rule or not, by 100% of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djujic has taken 1% of the time limit on the replica, so anyone can choose for themselves if the rules don't apply to everyone. And on this side, I ask you to pass it on to the President of the Croatian Parliament that we want to function normally and that all of this together is quite nothing and that in some way Croatian citizens deserve to do it in some normal conditions, to transfer their problems, to try to solve their problems and to contribute together to this crisis as soon as possible and to allow Croatian citizens to have confidence in the institutions that represent them. The message that none sits here except Mr. Shucker of HDZ MPs is a message that automatically denys the call on joint action by HDZ [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely visible from what's going on here. [[Intruder: Next replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.]] So... HDZ with a figure in its pocket calls all opposition parties... [[/Intruder: Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198736	Comrade Maras, please. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I absolutely agree with you in your qualifications that parliament should behave in crisis situations. For example, the Hungarians had a very good solution before this happened, namely that Orban received such broad powers. According to their Constitution, in the event of an emergency, parliament is constantly sitting, no one can disband it and every 15 days the government should submit a report to Parliament which, on the basis of this report, then extends or reduces, or extends the state of emergency. The role of Parliament here should be crucial precisely because of what we talked about. Some measures are imperfect and just in the discussion with more ideas and from multiple sides and more angles, we can come up with quality solutions. One of these is the staying of one parent at home and because of small children and because of the risk of transmission of infections, so we also protect the health of the population, protect jobs because the state jumps in where it can and we try to help as much as possible. Our citizens to adapt to the new creation [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a situation. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Hajdukovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198738	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198739	Thank you. I absolutely agree with you, and I think that in this situation the most we could do is help us, given that hundreds of citizens who share their problems with us every day are talking to us. But I ask you, if we are calling for joint action and unity, where is Jandrokovic now? Where's Branko Bacic? Where are all these HDZ people who need to discuss with us the proposals that help Croatian citizens? Di, where's Ante Sanader who called the opposition SDP yesterday if he hadn't suggested anything constructive? Where are these people, why aren't they taking part here with us in this debate? Why don't they say if our proposal is good or bad? Can it or cannot it be applied? Which is why it does not allow Croatian citizens to go peacefully to Easter and not think about paying off their loans and not leave them at the mercy of their banks. Believe me, if we don't set the rules the way To be for all [[Intruder: Time.]] identically, that people know transparently what their right is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Which is what it isn't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Banks will do so in his arrangement. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] I think that It's not correct and yes [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] We should put it that way. [[Intruder: Comrade Hajdukovic, please prepare for discussion.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198740	Thank you. Please, intervention, colleague Hajdukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198741	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Here you are Mr. Hajdukovic, please, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. Here you are, colleague Hajdukovic.]] Well, unfortunately, this crisis has shown how unprepared we are for these situations in every sense. In economics, I would dare say politically, which, we are witnessing right now, organisational, logistics, social, etc., etc. Let's just take the farm. This crisis has shown our agricultural production on its knees, which is simply a victim of many years of bad policy, poor direction, non-strategic thinking. That's right, so unfortunately we're victims and in a political sense because we don't have enough culture politically to listen to everything, all the suggestions, all the problems on the table and try to deal with these problems together. I fear that HDZ's unity is only, that is, their calls for unity are only when it suits them and that their perception of community and consensus is based on "that is what you can support us, we allow you to support us". But it's not the point, it's not the purpose of parliamentary democracy. Just because there are more of us from different parts of Croatia, from different segments of life in Croatia, we can give better suggestions, we can warn of some of the problems that perhaps the Government or we as legislators have initially missed and may warn of some things that may later have serious repercusions. One of them is definitely paying off citizens' loans. Why? Many were financially planning differently, things that are unfortunately very difficult, since this epidemic, I read in one medium that about a thousand people get fired daily. If that's true, it's a terrible piece of information. In the meantime, there was also an earthquake in Zagreb, so many families in Zagreb are exposed to an additional unplanned cost of housing adaptation, if they were lucky that their apartments were still useful. For all these people, the postponement of payments, or the moratorium on the payment of loans per year, will mean little space for, to catch air, to be financially consolidated and to continue to pay their commitments. Without that beginning, I'm afraid it'll be very difficult for them, that many won't be able to repay their debts, many will lose their jobs in the meantime, we don't know how further the pandemic situation will move, as far as the economy is concerned, so we're trying to solve this equation with all the unknowns so that at least one acquaintance can be introduced into it. Also, no one has mentioned seasonal employees except for our measures so far, the 3rd package of measures. Or permanent, so-called. Permanent season. There are slightly less than 6 thousand in Croatia. These are people who, during the season, make about 6 to 7 months enough to survive the whole year and thus service their debts and all the other financial obligations they have. Since nothing's happened since the season, we need to think about protecting these exactly, slightly less than 6,000 people. If we're counting on it to be 6,000 families, then you can imagine how much repercussion could be if we don't adequately protect them. Also, people who have been fired as a consequence of the crown will be a major problem or we need to help them and take care of them, help them to stop their feet and serve them in their short - term financial obligations if God gives them no credit. Also, no one mentions employees who are at the Bureau who have no compensation. What's the number of people like that? So they have no right to any compensation for various reasons, which now because of a crisis that will become and grow into an economic crisis have no right and have no perspective of finding a job soon. It's the same segment of people we have to worry about and who we have to help. Therefore, as I have said, our measures may not be perfect, neither are the government's measures, but I believe that with one different approach, in a broader dialogue and in a dialogue with more respect, above all, from the ruling to the opposition, there would be much more quality proposals. Because I am afraid that these government proposals will need to be corrected more than once, that they will be subject to quite frequent changes and that this will create additional uncertainty among citizens but also in the economy because of the constant changes in market conditions, whether labour, whether the economy, or markets in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198742	Please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198743	My colleague Hajdukovic and I, with this proposal, are essentially concerned about citizens who have not yet felt this crisis. So, you said yourself when this health problem goes down for, we hope as soon as possible that a part of the people except for those who are unemployed and who live on the edge of poverty and those who stood up to yesterday will feel this crisis very well. And now let's say I set an example, today at the 2nd month of this year the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was about 6,500 kuna, I'm going to stick to those figures. So someone who had 6,500 kuna before this pandemic, took out a loan, planned his own life, got hit by this situation, and, say, most employers put these workers on a minimum or these 4,000 kuna due to government measures. So these workers lost 2,000, 2,500 kuna, and they'll only feel that later. This moratorium on loans means a lot to them, and it makes the situation much easier because other than preserving jobs, we encourage and spending citizens right now. in this way that these funds can be spent. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198744	Thank you, colleague Giujic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198745	I agree, fellow Djujic, that the crisis will end today, the consequences will be great and long-term. So we can't predict how many more people will lose their jobs, unfortunately, how much pay cuts, purchasing power, if it comes to question and swearing courses, it's also going to be a big problem. So there's a lot of problems waiting for us. But the same thing that's important for us to point out when we talk about our moratorium law, I think it's that those who have a good financial situation don't have to use this law. So those who have regular incomes, which will continue to have regular incomes, can choose to continue to service their debts to banks. That way, they won't be cut off as far as the payment plan or the end of their commitment to the bank is concerned, as they planned, but unfortunately I'm afraid they'll be in your minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198746	Thank you. I would like a little intervention and an individual debate from colleague Karolina Leaković. Here you go. Last reported debate, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198747	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, if we are in a crisis without precedent, and we are in the midst of the worst yet to come, and then, at least economically, then from the government and the political and economic elite as residents, it is certain that we have the right to expect solutions that will benefit the largest number of people. And these people who live on their work, not on capital, not on rent, not on inheritance, not on the accumulated, but on people, and these are the ones that live in Croatia the most, in fact, on their fair salary regardless of whether it is earned in trade, in the food industry, in transport, in services, in schools, in the hospital or in the office. If we work indefinitely on a particular one, then our contracts are extended every, every few months, maybe not always in accordance with the law, and we know that there are such situations too. He knew that the government declaredly insists on community, it's not a new word discovered, but it seems to me that for this government, a new word has been discovered, or one that is very often in the use of last weeks of solidarity. We're saying that the health crisis, or the government, is saying that we need to overcome the health crisis with common forces, appeal to the responsibility of each and every one of us, and I can certainly agree with that and I can support it. Of course, if we are not deprived of human rights in this government’s once unnecessarily restrictive decisions and, of course, if we are not deliberately deceived and tried to hide some information. We know that we have recently had such a case with the purchase of medical equipment, and we have had one case with a secret meeting in the government between the prime minister, the culture minister and the editor-in-chief of several media houses on which, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not want to present details and did not answer any questions about the meeting. The public and journalists must never, nor in this situation, remain deprived of the answers to questions about how decisions are made, why the main editors of some media houses were invited to a meeting in the government and what they were promised, to report on government measures that they would receive in return. So, unlike this solidarity when it comes to the health crisis and the epidemiological measures, when it comes to economics, I think it's hard to agree that we're all on the same boat, that it's the same for all of us, that the crisis on all of us is the same, that we all have to tighten the belt, that either we're all gonna challenge and save private entrepreneurs and their property, or we're all going to fail, and that it's not the time to question each other, and it's especially not the time to insist on working rights, on collective contracts, on collective agreements, on coefficients, says cut yourself immediately and now without any renunciation, etc., in other words socialize or share private losses, and we don't touch private profits. It has already been said today on several occasions that we have not seen how the banks have reacted in this crisis whether they have submitted part of the burden. They did not bear part of the burden, however, we saw that the owners of private companies better sent their workers and most of their workers to the stock market immediately, although perhaps they should not have done so. If we ever find out, so what is the number of those who immediately sent workers to the stock market and before measures, we will, of course, ask the Ministry of Labour and HZZ. We know there's no write-off for citizens, no lifting unnecessary banking obligations, no abandonment of performances, no appraisals. We still haven't actually made a decision about parents who care for children who don't go to school and kindergarten to determine what SDP is looking for today. We also did not make a decision that even now unemployed who have worked less than 9 months in the past 24 months have the right to compensation, this should certainly be taken into account. And there are a lot of problems that people warn us about, so I will take advantage of the opportunity with us of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health to warn him of a letter of 17 March which she sent to the Ministry, directed the Croatian Association for Rare Diseases, which warns of a special situation involving employees who are at the same time patients with autoimmune diseases, parents of chronically ill children who raise their voices and warn that they have to work, and they are very exposed to the group, so I call on the ministry to take care of their health. Ideas for the State to be a cornerstone of economic policy, economic activity to use this crisis to change the dominant political economic paradigm, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, we have yet to hear and I appeal in this regard. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198748	Thank you. And my last debate with my colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198749	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last few weeks a paradigm of relations with state institutions has changed. The rule so far is to say so to the public or most citizens in some vague situation between institutions and individuals as a rule stood aside from individuals. And lately, in this vague situation between individuals and institutions, they tend to side with the institution especially if it's the police about healthcare professionals or about someone from these now we call it the more popular service represented by the state. It is good when institutions gain greater trust from citizens, but it is never good to give non-critical trust to anyone, to either individual or to institutions. Therefore, they should always be questioned and treated critically. One of the equative examples was the police's conduct in the case of two citizens in Split who wanted to take a walk, and then there was, I would say training, unnecessary training of strictness against individuals, and there was a journalist there and it became generally known. We have then a reverse case, so in front of a church also in Split police showed much more tolerance, patience towards a priest who invited people to mass, and when the officers came to warn them that it was a violation of the headquarters's recommendations then he fell into an argument with a policeman that a police officer had finally had to interpret something from a religion, it was perhaps excessive tolerance, but somewhere between this situation the increased power of the institution I would say in relation to the rights of the individual should find a good balance. This is why it is good for us to talk about this in the Croatian Parliament live at the thematic session of the Committee on Human Rights. So, on one portal came an article about what all citizens ask the attorney general, I wouldn't say that it was an explanation of litigation with state institutions, it was really about certain individual problems of life that people came across because of this epidemic and the rapid ones, but when the measures were faster then they weren't enough, there wasn't enough thought about possible side effects that I believe had time to think about them further to be avoided. What do all the citizens actually write to the D.A.? So most often it's about people who got fired, and for various reasons they can't exercise their rights as unemployed people. Then it is about students who, because of their inability to work during the epidemic, cannot be supported and asked the competent authorities to assist students in the form of a delay in the payment of tuition. Afterwards, citizens have problems communicating with HZZ, and related to the exercise of the right for the unemployed. Most often they fail to obtain feedback on who is processing or their demands and fail to exercise rights. They are particularly numerous citizens who have jobs but who fail to work because of their obligations to young children in circumstances where kindergartens and schools are closed, then they do not know how to take care of children when they have to work again because of the end of their vacation and sick leave, then they state that despite their open-label care, employers call them to return to work, then others report that the employer determines 7-day work without rest despite the care of underage children, and then ask that the employer asks them to work even though he has not provided them with protections such as masks and gloves, then the worker reported whose employer requests to come to work personally even though he does not live in a city where he works and depends on public transportation and can't de facto come. The employers are also reporting. And that's to say, someone hired two seasons, but now he doesn't know what to do with them and their compensation, and in the end we have cases because of these passes, so he can't worry, come to visit a child living in another municipality, and he doesn't get a pass. Retired people who can't go to a bank, to a pharmacy, etc., or to a post office to raise a pension because they don't have a post office. And all these problems, I'm here, as long as I have time to count, require reaction, require reaction. an institution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198750	First, it's Mrs. Crescent. Buric, she can have an intervention at any moment, please, then colleague Schuker. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198751	Thank you. Thank you so much, Vice President HS. So, very briefly. We are here today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 5 state secretaries from 5 different ministries, now the two of us have delivered an oral opinion on the SDP package and by the fact that we were 5 out of 5 different ministries, I think it's a very clear message of respect for the promoter and I'm not saying it at all that I would be pathetic but very honest and open. Health is not everything, however, all without health is absolutely nothing and it is a saying that is more than ever proved true today. What I am also glad is that today most are in a direct or indirect way, regardless of what political groups came from, that parliamentary representatives and MPs have said that this double crisis that we are facing is strategically well-led and that we have good governance. Moreover, this is what we are talking about today, which is a package of measures, which, which is unlegislative, this government, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, has provided only so far 65 billion kuna and what I must mention, is that it is neither the first nor the last package of measures. You know that yourself. - Mrs. Crescent. Leakovic asked a question about people who had lost their jobs in this crisis, and that is why we are talking about the number of about 13,000 people, newly unemployed, which is why the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, or the executive body of the Croatian Employment Service yesterday, included in the criteria for obtaining support for the preservation of jobs, the possibility that employers who report to this support should these people return to work, that they can get that support for them too, so we are talking about support from 4 thousand kuna. There he is. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198752	Stay, you have one more replica, please. Thank you very much. [[- Yeah, good.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk. [[Intruder: Please.]] Thank you. So then, no, no, wait, wait, there's another line, don't leave yet, there's a colleague named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198753	Thank you. State Secretary. It's a good-looking jump, "Health isn't everything, but without health, we're nothing." Did I quote correctly? [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] The saying, it's more to me, it's to be honest, it's more to me to jump. [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] But health protection can't be a front for anything to be done. You can't do everything. So, you need to balance between health, among other segments of life, and you know what our Constitution says, what's everything? Thus, even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the state, the right to life, to ban torture, cruel and humiliating treatment and punishment, thoughts, freedom of mind, conscience, and religion cannot be limited. That's all. So, I agree on the importance of what you've said, but I'm not in favour of such rhetoric justifying possible restrictions on everything and everything for health, but I like the saying, now it's not, it's good, but it's not good for political game. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198754	Here, answer, secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198755	Thank you, Honorable Representative Bauk. So I repeat again. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to preserve health, protect health, on the other hand, preserve jobs, stand behind all Croatian entrepreneurs and workers and try and help and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198756	Thank you, too. Now my colleague Schuker is on behalf of the MPs' club final. I'm just asking for my colleagues' intervention. Thank you. How? I don't doubt you, just what I'm stressing. Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198757	Thank you very much. Well, I answered about three things. The first was once in the Croatian Parliament to have mutual respect among MPs and respect for what the MPs wanted to say. Unfortunately, however, those who spoke most today about how there are no MPs in the Assembly, now there are none in the assembly. There are four of us left. The other thing I wanted to say, I'm honest, but really this is what I tell you out of the soul, after all, and my debate was like this, I expected that colleagues from the SDP who have been reported for discussion each by one or two laws will try to explain the legal proposals to us, and with this, a couple of colleagues who have mentioned certain things, we haven't heard anything. We heard attacks on the government. This is what the Government likes, so eventually on the President of the Parliament, on this, on that, etc., I think today was a debate to fight, not to conflict, to oppose opinions and to think about how to solve this crisis. And lastly, yesterday, I just got this information, the EU Commission confirmed HBOR's portfolio loan scheme for liquidity, so much so that I'm going to mention again and apostrophe my colleague Lalovec, the two of us, no matter what we're from different clubs, are saying that at this point we need to secure funds from all possible sources, and this is just another confirmation that the government is working on all fronts. Some things can be spoken publicly, and some things can be spoken of only when they happen. It is a good thing that anyone who has any knowledge of professional everyday life as a proposal in the Croatian Parliament, but look at colleagues and colleagues, maximum respect and according to this institution was that the colleagues from the club who proposed this legislative proposal would be more present in this debate, it would simply point to the seriousness of this proposal, this is not reading any lesson, but when you give the political rival a chance for creamworth then it would be a shame not to take advantage of it. And how seriously you think about these suggestions of yours is best shown by those who spoke of them, I say honor with exceptions, and these exceptions remain now and in the assembly, the best shows how many people are left in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198758	Thank you, too. My colleague Bauk, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is final, and I apologize on behalf of the Proposer, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Proposer 10, 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198759	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Shuker, Honored Representative Hajdukovic, Honored representative Leakovic, the esteemed vice president, then what you should welcome yourself to, I thank you. So, first of all, the SDP Club didn't choose the time of the debate, we got it this afternoon, we could discuss it tomorrow morning, it might end something more, it might be a little more media attention, but the debate is in line with 90% of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, these 10% of what the president of the day said to adapt it to the situation. We think it was our responsibility to propose a package of measures to help citizens in the first place because some of these proposals can happen in a very similar way from the government in the next month, it can happen. Well, then we'll have what you just said about creamworth, and we'll be able to say we told you or we suggested. And I don't see that that's some big problem, it's a political competition in these circumstances of the epidemic. So when a normal boxing situation without gloves is put on a little thicker gloves and watch every word, and sometimes some of our colleagues still fail to resist calling to cross that fine line between this constructive community that we witness and regular situations. So I would, however, be encouraged by criticism from fellow Shucker once again, briefly said what our proposals were, so 10 measures to help citizens affected by the pandemic. First fee of at least 4,000 kuna per month in the next 3 months for unemployed people who were fired. Then a fee of half a minimum salary per month or 1,625 kuna for the unemployed on the stock market and do not receive any compensation. Permanent seasons fee at a minimum salary of 3,250 kuna per month, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for social assistance users, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for pensioners with small pensions as well as for all persons below the income censorship, a cancellation of the RTV subscription for pensioners with small pensions and social assistance users. Subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna per month for renting the apartment for all of the most affected groups. Terminate the execution and increase the amount of wages exempt from the performance, issue of bank cards for blocked citizens for the on-line transaction, abolishing charges on-line transaction as in crisis conditions no physical contact. I don't think I've even listed all these suggestions. I believe that we will also get a written statement from the government before voting on our proposals, so that, since they have been proposed last week, and I can know the work and functioning of the government agree that maybe there was not enough time to get the government's written statement, but until the vote, since we now have a week's break, we can really get the government's written statement on our bill proposals, too, so that the foundation of them and the foundation of the government's work in the future would allow us to see how much these arguments have been justified, and how much they were merely the fruit of us proposing something without the government's proposal. It's the same thing in political life that's possible. I also believe that the assembly will find time to discuss perhaps in a united debate, such as today, proposals from other promoters, not only the SDP Club, but also other proposings, and that we will have to decide whether we are still in this situation in the constructive community as it is said, but it is not a good way not to accept any proposal, or any amendment of the opposition. Then indeed, as counterpart Maras said, we may be serving as a tower, and at the same time the bodies that make decisions are especially spared, excluded from criticism, the Maltas do not welcome any criticism against them on the knife as if they were protected from criticism or as if I were going to say it without a problem, holy cows, so there are no sacred cows in democracy. But what matters is that their decisions should be implemented and respected, but it is allowed and desirable if they are not good critics because they have also created certain problems for citizens who may still be less than the problems that have been spared by the citizens, for example, I think most of all about preventing the spread of the infection. I thank again everyone who participated, thank the state secretaries from all five ministries, especially my colleague Buric and colleagues from the health ministry who was Plazonic, where he was a representative in the previous assembly of the parliament, but I was afraid not to make a mistake, who remained until the end and representatives, especially colleagues Suker who stayed until the end. I hope that, on our return to the Croatian Parliament, we will continue with the normal dynamics of the debate, that the Parliament will remain a place of control of the government and to prevent the arbitrary conduct of a body that is not good when they have no control and that I believe that other colleagues, whether they are from a position or opposition, will contribute. So, I think that in Croatia, we have long fought for democracy so that only so democratic institutions would now deprive their constitutional powers. Some laws could be passed today by agreement and by a two-thirds majority, but the Constitutional Court will then discuss it well, and for everything else we see next week in the new debate, in the new confrontations of opinions, I believe in new constructive decisions that citizens will be able to cope with this crisis as easily as possible. It will be easy if this lasts for two months, but if it lasts longer then the end of the epidemic will sooner be declared by the Minister of Finance than the Minister of Health because suddenly our alternative will die from hunger or from the crown of the virus becoming a general alternative. Therefore, we can endure for some time, but we also need to think about the scenarios of how to live in co-existence with the coronary virus with the least consequences for society, for citizens, for the economy and for the way we're used to living until the middle of the 3rd month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198760	Thank you. That concludes the debate on a set of ten laws, we'll vote on them when the conditions are met. Another information for counterpart Leaković, a colleague of Hajdukovic, a colleague of Shuker and a colleague of Bauk, the work of the Parliament continues on Wednesday 15th April at 9.30 p.m. on Mark's square with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Coastal Research Security, Carbon Exploitation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 821. Thank you very much and the secretary of state for being here. I wish everyone a happy Easter. Goodbye. SESSION DISCONTINUED
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198761	Final proposal of the Moratorium Act on credit obligations of debtors, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Ninety-seven. Proposers are the SDP representative club and representative Goran Aleksic. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law that the government does not accept, please let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The proposal didn't get enough votes, 43 was for, 3 was abstentioned and 69 was against, so the law wasn't passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198762	Let's move on to the agenda. We have already agreed to conduct a joint discussion on the set of 6 laws proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club and one joint SDP representative's club and representative Goran Aleksic's team, and on three proposals for a conclusion submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, these are: - Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the Law on Contribution, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal for the Act on the Law on Obligors, First and Second Amendments, - Final Proposal for the Law on the Complementary of the Law on the Morals, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal of the Law on Obligations, the Emergency Act on the Taxes, the Second Amendments of the Act, the Second Amendments, the Second Amendment of the Act, the Act on the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Protection of the Act, the Law on the Act, the Second Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Rec, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Protection of the Law on the First, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the First, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law on the Law of the First, the First, the Law on the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the First, the Law on the Law on the Law, the Law of the Law, the Law, the Law, the Law of the First Act, the Law, on the Law on the Law of the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law, the Law, the First Act, the Law, the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on the Working of the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice. The government didn't deliver an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198763	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning, we warned a month and a half ago about the effects of the crisis caused by the coronary virus. Three weeks ago, we went out with our first package with more than 15 measures to help citizens and preserve jobs. Our measures were not then adopted by the government. Since the first government measures that followed only by our measures were too focused on prolongation, on delays, and they were not enough help for entrepreneurs, nor their employees, and time was leaking, the SDP sent our second package of more than 10 laws to save the economy and jobs, which we are unfortunately considering today. The second package comes today after voting on the government's package, shows in fact only demeaning and opposition, but also citizens, especially those citizens who have lost their jobs in the last two weeks due to late government reactions, over 20,000 of them as well as those citizens who at this point fear losing their jobs. Further demeaning comes precisely because the government was not even ready to manifest itself on this proposal. This only shows the relationship that currently exists in Croatia with all those who are trying to constructively help their proposals the poorest, most endangered, unemployed and other most vulnerable groups of citizens who are going through a severe crisis in Croatia thanks to the coronary virus. It is precisely because of a late reaction from the Government that the SDP proposed in the second package a write-off, not just a postponement of taxes and contributions, and we have suggested that we exempt the payment of profit tax for all entrepreneurs because this is not a time in which they can simply or should credit the state. Secondly, we have proposed the release from the payment of the flat-rate tax for craftsmen and small tenants due to special circumstances because they are closed due to the decision of the headquarters and we have proposed to write down 100% of the contributions for salaries to employees during the duration of the crisis simply so that they can help these people because they are closed by the decision of the headquarters due to the crown of the virus. After a very high public pressure, after we had pushed in the SDP for the past three weeks, offered to the Croatian public, and also to the Croatian government to help solve these problems in trying to preserve jobs, after pushing them to move faster, to simply do more in the direction of protection and employers, but also jobs, only one step was taken to help the economy. Therefore, the proposals for a write-down of taxes and contributions were accepted. But now you need at this specific moment of help right now to the citizens, to do what is not done. Help those most vulnerable, workers, but also unemployed, parents who stay with children at home, but also those workers who stay at home alone in self-insulation, as well as those on the first line of defense against the epidemic. Therefore, the SDP continues to insist on its second package of laws to help preserve jobs and therefore we still feel that our proposals are needed at this point. It is necessary to increase the basis for compensation for self-insulation workers to the average salary level because this fee of 2100 kuna is simply too small for a man's life. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide paid leave to at least one parent who spends time at home with his child under 12 years of age, especially since in this situation the parent is particularly affected at work. It is also necessary to increase the amount of non-taxable payments to help employers in particularly sensitive activities in the root of the crisis to reward their workers, especially those now on the first line of defence against the epidemic and helping Croatian citizens not to lack anything, so that they can reward traders, so that they can reward pharmacists, drivers, workers and logistics workers, as well as security guards, those whose simple work in these difficult times has not stopped but is even more pronounced. 4. it would be responsible to enable workers who are at risk of a job due to the crisis to pay 75% of the salary, up to a maximum of 5,100 kuna, it is a small cost to the state, and it is certainly a guarantee of a much better life for those people who cannot work in these conditions. And they can't work primarily on sectors for which Croatia's GDP depends most, it's tourism and hospitality. Tourism reminds me that it accounts for over 20% of our GDP, when tourism and hospitality are at stake in the government in this segment has done absolutely nothing, practically nothing but petty cosmetic and technical changes. We recall that the SDP has proposed to abolish the obligation to pay the flat-rate tax for small tenants, we have also proposed to abolish the obligation to pay advances for artisan craftsmen and to abolish certain parafiscal duties including the flat-rate amount of tourist tax and membership fee to the tourist community during the crisis. And I remind you that we will continue to insist that VAT in tourism and catering goes to 5% especially at this time of crisis, as we today insist that VAT on food delivery goes to 0% because we believe that in these difficult times, especially in the circumstances of the crisis when people order delivery needs to act on one hand and to reduce prices, but also to reduce taxes to those who have suffered the most damages due to the crisis, and these are the caterers. At a time of crisis, we must be solid, especially us politicians who represent citizens, especially those who are most affected by this crisis and who have lost their jobs or gone to a minimum. We therefore propose that for the next three months, parliamentary representatives and other state officials, other than those on the first line of defence against the virus, work for a minimumer to solidarity with a number of citizens who will be affected by this crisis, and unfortunately more and more in Croatia. 70,000 social assistance users, 240,000 blocked, more than 400,000 citizens living below the poverty threshold of 1,940 kuna, mostly part of the pensioners. In just two weeks of the crisis primarily due to a late government reaction, over 20,000 workers are jobless, another 400,000 fear for losing their jobs. For 5,500 permanent seasons and over that number as well as for more than 100,000 people registered on the stock market, and now they are not receiving any compensation for the simple prospect of employment is almost completely destroyed due to the crisis and they need help. So, it's over a million of the most vulnerable who can't pay the directors soon, can't pay the rent for the apartment, can't pay the loans. It is already clear that this crisis will take, in particular, a recovery from the crisis, so that we insist in the SDP that it is necessary to secure the moratorium on loans for a year, not just three months, and in a way that the interest is calculated in order to ensure on one hand the safety of entrepreneurs to continue their business, but in order to make them the most important thing, to ensure that citizens continue their normal lives without fear and uncertainty. It is necessary at this point to suspend and tighten interest, we have also suggested and is in this set of laws to help the economy and preserve jobs. So I want to say, in the SDP, we will continue to insist on the moratorium, on paying off loans for a year, but we will also insist on our third package of measures to help the citizens we presented the other day, which includes. First, a fee of 4,000 kuna per month in the next three months for unemployed people who were fired because of the root crisis, thanks to a late reaction from the government, a protection supplement of 750 kuna per month for all users of social assistance, etc. The minimum fee guaranteed is 70,000, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for all those who have income below the poverty threshold, so it's between 350 and 400,000 people below the threshold of 1,940 kuna per person for the most part of the pensioners, so these are pensioners with small pensions. We will insist on a fee of half the minimum wage, i.e. $1,625 per month for the unemployed currently on the stock market, who do not receive any remuneration and whose chance of employment has been completely destroyed due to the crisis, we will insist on continuing seasons at a minimum wage of 3,250 kuna per month of them 5,500, simply people have to live on something. Also, we propose to abolish the RTTV subscription precisely for these most affected layers of citizens, as well as a subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna renting the apartment for these mentioned categories, of course for people who are hired. What I would particularly like to put an emphasis on, I would like to stress that our legal proposals to be referred to in the procedure will require a suspension of the performance and an increase in the amount of pay free of charge, as well as the issue of bank cards blocked with a certain spending limit and the abolition of transactions i.e. compensation for transactions in online payments simply so that under the conditions of the crisis there will be no physical contact. We believe that these measures are very concrete, that they are implemented and that they should act quickly to help the most vulnerable groups of citizens, unemployed, pensioners, permanent seasons, social assistance users. I call on the government to consider them and to respect them as she has already complied with some of our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198764	Thank you. Continuing, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198765	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would only briefly comment on the moratorium law on the loans of debtors why it matters. In his statement, the CNB made public, i.e. according to the recommendations of the European Central Bank or the European Banking Supervisory Mechanism in Frankfurt, it said for a year that you have a framework for all business entities and citizens not to go to... claims. In other words, what does that mean? The CNB, or regulator, has already given a year to all business banks how to treat claims in their books, which means that banks already have the opportunity to do so. What does it matter? If this crisis, we all know, and we're aware that it can't end in three months, if the banks start to collect claims after three months, but now we have a liquidity problem, they'll simply suck all the money out of the system. If businesses and citizens come to them after three months, all these amounts, simply when the economy needs to be returned if they are bank priorities they will simply suck all the money out of the system if they have insurance instruments, they can charge much better from the state, they can be charged sooner than the state. And that's why it's important to calm down if we're saving the economic system now, now we're saving the economy of the Republic of Croatia. After three months, banks cannot be a priority over the state and cannot be a priority over other suppliers. And that's why it's important, and all the legal mechanisms have to be very good at controlling the whole process now. And here's why our intensity was to go with this moratorium for a year, only to those who are in liquid problems, only to those citizens who are at a minimum and only to those who are at risk, that they are simply given the opportunity to cope in that particular period of time. But what I'm warning you all the time is that it's simply our biggest fear of liquidity, liquidity or the insolvency of the system, that the system doesn't crack in the 6th month, is that we won't be able to get foreign exchanges about tourism and that simply when the economy starts to turn to make priority to suppliers and to pay bills, and only later will the banks that have the biggest capital and later come to the state that when the economy starts and collects their claims. Here's what I'd like to ask my colleague, Alexic, if that's what we agreed on for the last words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198766	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198767	I thank the SDP first of all for inviting me to propose with them the Moratorium on Loans Act, as this is my area of action since the beginning of the Croatian Parliament of the Bank, credit institutions, debts. I also note that it is very good that certain measures of force are also proposed in this third package, it will be proposed that we already proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia deblocking accounts, bans on enforcement, cards to everyone for free, free Internet banking, all this is important in these moments to enable citizens. The SNAGA party has proposed 16 measures in total, but I would now say something more about these moratories because it is the subject of exposure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has announced as one of the measures of the moratorium on the payment of the loan claim, as announced by the government of the Republic of Croatia, however, the government has not proposed a binding measure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has obviously discussed this with banks because banks have offered moratories to citizens, but these moratories include the calculation of interest, and these interest rates reach the day the moratorium ceases to operate and then they are deployed to wars or whatever bank it intends to negotiate with its debtors. It's not a moratorium. Such a moratorium of banks approve consumers, businesses, anyone and in a normal situation, therefore it is not a moratorium that must be made possible in the current crisis situation. In the current crisis situation, a moratorium must be allowed to collect claims from loans without interest and without any other charges being charged. If the moratorium lasts a year, and it should take a year, because the crisis will not stop the day the virus stops working, but the crisis will continue, because we will all be in the most citizens' problems, businesses less because they will start working, which is why the measure needs to be extended for a year. And it is easy to reduce the measure in the meantime if there is a better situation between citizens and businesses. Croatian banks can handle this measure without a problem. Croatian banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is excess liquidity. What does that mean? This means that they have 34 billion kunas of their own money that they can do whatever they want to do because they are not obliged to account for that money to anyone. And these 10 billion I said now seem to have fired the CNB in the last tranche another number of billions, so their liquidity is even greater than, that excess liquidity is even more than 34 billion kuna. Therefore, the banks must wait for the payment, and in addition the banks are obliged to the Croatian citizens who have robbed for the course of the franc, for the payment of interest that was illegal for a total of 20 billion kuna, hence those banks that are due to all of us, and perhaps for those of you who are here with me now, perhaps some of you banks owe us, and the banks they owe us should not now be charged in the annuity crisis. What's still missing, and what we haven't covered by the law is the licking, so the licking should be covered by the moratorium, it's primarily important for those companies that deal with transport, so they've got to get to licking buses, some other means of transport or the means of working in agriculture, so it's not working for them now, they need to be given a lysing moratorium because they don't fit at this time. So there are a series of measures still missing, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider this bill that we have put into the SDP procedure and I as Parliament's representative of the SNAGA party. I hope you will also consider this new package of measures mentioned by my colleague Bernardic, about cards, about unblocking citizens, about breaking up accounts, about free Internet banking. I don't think there's gonna be a problem with that, the government hasn't done it yet, but I don't think the government will have a problem with that, and that if the government doesn't even accept this proposal, they're going to prepare their proposal the way the government thinks it's best and they're going to put it in the process within about 7 to 10 days. Here's thank you for listening very carefully to what I've put forward and I hope you'll accept all of it in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198768	Thank you to Reverend Goran Aleksic. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinovic has a request for the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198769	... in accordance with Article. 248. The Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work seek a five-minute break in front of the club Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to warn the citizens and here present representatives of the complexity, the additional complexity of this economic situation in Croatia for which this second round of measures will not be sufficient today. In that sense, and thus I want to change Croatia constructively to this proposal for a package of measures that is now being discussed, I would like to draw particular attention to the second pension pillar. I'm looking for and I suggest, respected citizens, that they all be deposited in another pension column frozen during the crisis. Why? Because every month, on average, about 500 million kuna is paid into the second pension column, which is about 6 billion kuna a year. Now imagine how much it would mean, respected citizens, 500 million kunas every month during the crisis that you can get that money that's missing from the state, that you can pay minimum workers who have lost their jobs, social cases, those who are seasons that no one sees or asks what they're doing somewhere in between. Therefore, I think it is very important and we take advantage of this situation, we are ready, we have excellent economic experts in the party to change Croatia, we use this crisis to start reforming the second pension pillar, to transform it, to give people freedom to transfer their money or to the first pension column where they will guarantee the state or to the third liberal so that they can be rich or lost, but the time is so. If we do this, we will drastically reduce public debt, repair public finances and contribute to saving the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198770	Thank you. I'll have a break by 14.50. THE PURPOSE
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198771	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.50 HOURS]] So we have three replicas, we have two replicas at the exhibition of our colleagues Bernardic, we have one replica on the presentation of our fellow Lalovec. First fellow Maras at the fair of fellow Bernardic. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198772	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you explained a whole series of laws that I don't think it's a good thing we didn't discuss before the vote today, because some proposals are certainly still very current and we just need to apply them. One such proposal is also the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act where we predicted that one parent should be allowed to stay with his child if both parents work because we know that school doesn't work, that our children are home. We must thank parents who at this time are making a great effort to make up for this situation that is with their children, teachers who send tasks parents must work because they simply have to gain knowledge. And it would be much easier if the state would allow one parent to be at home with his child and do what is necessary. Here's what I want you to further comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198773	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198774	Dear colleague Maras. Maybe that's why you said that we don't actually have the government's opinion today because if they asked anyone responsible from the health care system of any epidemiologist, you'd say that for the possibility of spreading the infection isn't as good as our thousands of citizens do, going to work with children because they don't have anywhere to leave them. They're going with little boys, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia it hasn't been recorded yet, but we've seen that young people and children can be infected around the world and unfortunately the coronarys of the virus are dying. Not to mention when you bring a child to work, that virus can spread faster. So I can't believe that in a month there's no understanding, no sense, no common sense when it comes to treating parents who should stay home with their children for up to 12 years to prevent and spread the infection, but to make their lives much more pleasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198775	Thank you. The next replica of a colleague of the coat of arms on a colleague of Bernardic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198776	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Maras spoke of one important measure, and I would single out one other which seems to me to be extremely important for Croatian citizens, which is a matter of moratorium on loan payments. What the government of the Republic of Croatia has agreed with Croatian business banks and what business banks are giving based on their decision is all but a moratorium. It is a delay, a delay that citizens and citizens will pay dearly because during the duration of that delay they will be charged interest on the entire principal of the loan. So, in this way, the banks will actually cost 6 months of delays to Croatian citizens and make extra money in this way. That is why I believe that this may be the most important measure of all that we have proposed, and I absolutely advocate its adoption and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198777	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198778	First of all, thank you, fellow coat of arms, for that observation. That's what we're going to insist on, it's inadmissible that at this difficult moment the banks are reaching for additional profits in those who are unhappy with this crisis, which are the most endangered. And it is unacceptable for the government to calmly observe that additional interest is being charged on loans that people can no longer pay, especially those 20,000 people who are out of work thanks to the late government reaction or those 400,000 who fear that they will lose their jobs because simply those companies where they work today are closed. And that's why it's necessary, and that's why we're going to insist on making a moratorium on loans for the citizens for a year, but in a way that doesn't account for any extra interest because it's absolutely certain that this crisis is going to last and that we're going to need some more time to get out of this crisis. That's why we've been looking for a year, not any less prolongation periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198779	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask a colleague of Lalovec and a colleague of Maras you have a replica on a colleague of Lalovec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198780	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, I'd like to comment on the situation regarding the delay and moratorium on the loans. At this point, we have a situation that is not regulated and defined, so some banks haven't charged loans by this date until they see that citizens are applying for them to process and examine it in some way who would have the right and who wouldn't have the right. But I think and I think it would be normal for the state to regulate the system and know exactly what situation citizens are entitled to the moratorium for a year and on the other hand to protect them from the uncertainty of the next months and the next year. Because we know all seasons will be zero, over 300,000 people will be out of a job very soon, 300,000 took advantage of the possibility of being on the minimal offered by the government, the state has to do it urgently, so we don't have time to wait because the banks already recognized certain problems I think the state should too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198781	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198782	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, for asking. That's why the SDP also proposes a moratorium for a year, precisely because this won't be over in three months, only at 6 and 7 months we'll see the state of unemployment in society, we'll see that a number of companies that will only then open their doors at 6 and 7 months start from zero, let's not forget that they start from scratch that these three months of moratorium mean nothing to them. These companies will all take more than a year to recover their pre-crisis traffic. And because of this, when these companies start from zero, they will likely have minimally certain revenues, no tourism, no economic activity, and therefore it is important that in the 6th, 7th and 8th months when economic activity is due to return, not all banks will be frozen to purchase all of the liquidity from the system and thus will still cause economic recession and therefore we expect a very fast liquidity fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198783	Thank you. Now the government's representatives will give an additional explanation in a united call it a 15-minute debate with you being able to replicate each and every one of them, they will change. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198784	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In addition, to the set of legal regulations as well as the conclusions proposed in this agenda, a total of 10, what was introduced and said in view of the government's obligation to give its position and opinion, which for obvious reasons is the speed of action, given that these proposals are also by emergency procedure, here I use the opportunity to present at least in this section as regards the Ministry of Finance, so colleagues in their section. I would just like to begin by thanking my colleagues from the SDP and everyone who voted today for these legal regulations adopted by this House of Commons, proposed by the Government in order to mitigate the effects of the coronary epidemic of the virus. So far, we have had two packages of legislation in March and now in this month, totaling 32 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 18 decisions and 3 conclusions are all aimed at protecting the health of citizens, and, of course, preserving jobs and preserving the liquidity of businesses so that the economy can survive at all. In this regard, because of sustainability and the state budget itself, they would point out that in this way and in this way these measures so far have been developed by the Government in terms of citizenship, and solidarity and synchronisation in the work of all components of society is more than necessary and important to emerge from this crisis as little as possible and that the economy and society can function as a whole. As regards the legal rules that came from the Ministry's domain, there were five, the General Tax Law as a roof regulation that regulates the relationship between the tax authority and the taxpayer through whose... we went to regulate all these provisions concerning the suspension of payments to ultimately write down claims all under the tax code through the General Tax Code. This is what we wanted to shorten the procedures and go line-by-line in that part of taxation, all of the norms went through the General Tax Law, and now, after today's vote of law, of course, will be accessed and drawn up by the regulations themselves, which will set the deadlines where they are needed in terms of moving deadlines, as is, for example, allowed through the amendment of the Accounting Act, but in this section through the Regulation they will be allowed to be now 30.6. or some other date due to this operationality daily because the situation is changing, they can be freely said from day to day. So it's very important to know that as we know we have the main factor or factor in this whole situation completely unknown, it's the length of the duration of this crisis, and with its length and impact on the economy. Therefore, this dosing of measures that the state budget can take or will have to pass through some other types of funding must be such that it is sustainable, that it generally exists as a state budget. As regards these provisions of some of these proposals, I would just like to mention, for example, the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act where an untaxable reward for risk-related risks to elemental disasters is proposed, I would like to remind you that we already have these provisions in norms as untaxable including health care that was previously untaxable. So I'm really sorry, and I wouldn't want it to turn out that we don't want to meet all these good demands that are being proposed here, but since the regulations that are mutually synchronised are both the Ministry of Finance and the other members of the government. Certain proposals here are somewhat contrary to some of the activities that we have today supported by the government's adoption of these legal proposals. Of course, as far as the third round that the prime minister announced in terms of measures related to citizens is concerned, I believe the next measure, and which you are now pointing out here, and I assume that this will have more to say to the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198785	Thank you. I'm asking the next representative of the government. So on your show we have three replicas, we'll do that later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198786	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. I present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in oral form on the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the amount of support to preserve jobs in activities affected by the Crown virus, the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament not accept this proposal for a conclusion on increasing the amount of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the virus virus submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives' Club. First of all, I must stress that the focus of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to protect health, as well as to preserve all jobs and fight for every job. We stand firm behind Croatian workers, and in this sense there is a measure and all the other measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken. The meeting, held on 2 April 2020, concluded on the second group of measures to help the economy resulting from an outbreak of the coronary virus and the implementation of all these measures provided 65 billion kuna, I repeat 65 billion kuna. And for the support we are talking about, support for job conservation is provided 8.5 billion kuna and according to the current projections that we have, this measure will cover 500,000 workers. In accordance with the policy of preserving jobs, the amount of support to preserve jobs in sectors affected by the coronary virus has been increased from 3,250 kuna, as you know to 4,000 kuna per worker for April and May of this year, and employers using those support will also be freed from the cost of corresponding contributions. Just to remind you, the state is also carrying the burden of paying a contribution of around 1,500 kuna. And what I must especially point out is that on today, therefore, on 7 April, we have received 84,000 requests for about 500,000 workers, and only so far have we paid 600 million kuna. You remember that some day already the employers who applied and whose application or application was valid that one day they sat down 600 million kunas in total for a job-preservation measure or support. What I must also particularly stress and remind is that both employers and workers and trade unions and the entire Croatian public have, to a great extent, praised this measure of support for the preservation of jobs. The level of support is set at 4,000 kuna in order to cover as I have said as many workers as possible, to ensure the necessary material protection, to keep people in employment and to facilitate the business of employers under special circumstances and, of course, to account for available financial opportunities. What I must also point out when we talk about support for job conservation, it also existed in the past crisis that lasted during the SDP, but I must state that at that time the support for the preservation of jobs was consumed in 4 years only 2,008 times. Well, thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198787	Time, please. We have two replicas on your exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198788	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. As for the Ministry of Justice's portfolio, we have already repeated several times that with due attention, given the circumstances in which we are working on several amendments to the current legislative proposals. First of all, the executive procedures at this point have stopped. It is our recommendation to the public notaries to make all the public notes available for deadlines that will run when this situation continues. So our recommendation is that public notebooks make executive solutions, but don't send them to the executives until they pass the circumstances caused by the COVID-19 crisis. Also in the following days, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take new measures to fully halt the executive procedures until the elements of this health threat have passed. As regards the proposal to reduce the tightening interest rate on trade relations and contracts between traders and public rights persons, we believe that, although we appreciate the proposal's intention, it was not only in this particular section that the other relations were taken into account. Also in the non-standard part, it is not explained until the end, which means this feedback and justification of such feedback in view of the situation that has arisen since the day we declared the pandemic, which is 19 March 2020. Considering everything that you have suggested the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also working on this set of legal changes that will come in a package with a resolution of laws relating to the Ministry of Justice. The question of deadlines is also a matter of several laws, with due regard to the specificity of the issue of deadlines at the Ministry of Justice, we have proposed and in a few days everything about deadlines will be available to the public in order not to question the functioning of the judicial system as a whole. I repeat, it is not time for us to speak politically now, professionally with the justice portfolio we will do everything to address the issue of blocked citizens in a few days, the issue of enforcement in a way that will stop until the circumstances that require the situation to be normal in the Croatian state continue in a way that we can work on the new Executive Law, and that we now do in this part of the crisis stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198789	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198790	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives of colleagues and colleagues. Here before I start reading what I'm going to say today given these points that I would just remind everyone present today that today is World Health Organization Day, and we can especially speak with pleasure because we all know very well that one of the founders, and surely the first president of the World Health Organization was ours. Andrija Printer. First, he would refer to the proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I must say that the legal proposal suggests that one of the parents has the right to pay wages during the temporary prevention to work for the care of a child up to 12 years of life for the closure of educational institutions and that is, if the reasons for the closure of a health or safety nature are on the burden of HZZO funds. Since the rights provided under compulsory health insurance rights are directly linked to the use of healthcare in the existence of a disease or medical indication to achieve the same, that issue cannot be regulated by the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and cannot be achieved on the burden of the means of compulsory health insurance because there is no medical indication for the same in the sense of the Health Insurance Act. The second promemory is mine, which speaks of the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the maximum or maximum monthly amount of salary compensation, on the burden of HZZO assets, isolated or self-insulated employees due to the Covida-19 epidemic. This proposal proposes to increase the maximum monthly amount of salary compensation on the burden of HZZO funds to isolated or self-insulated employees due to an outbreak of covids and to the amount of the average salary in the Croatian Republic in January 2020. The proposal is not acceptable without the provision of additional funding from the state budget and therefore we do not agree with the proposal of this law Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198791	Thank you. Please give me just stay here, and we'll go the other way because we have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, followed by his colleague Maras. And I apologize to Anka's colleague, Mr. Taritash. Just stay, so you can answer immediately that we don't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198792	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State and I join in reminding ourselves that today is the World Health Day, especially dedicated to nurses and midwives who make a really big contribution to this fight. What I want to ask you is, are you in charge of ensuring the financial stability of this system in the ministry, because after the end of the crisis, the situation will be even worse, and therefore I appeal that, at the same time with the fight against the crown of the virus, you lead and fight to save the financial stability of the health system when the coronary crisis is over. Also, since we have all received a letter from the Chamber of Health Care Professionals of a special segment of health laboratory activity, to withdraw from the e-consultation of the law currently in the debate on medical biochemical activity because it is not in conformity with all stakeholders and is a discrimination against the employees of the laboratory profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198793	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198794	I would refer to this first part, to this second part, I think we've talked a lot about it, and I think that when this entire epidemic of Corona virus passes, we'll have plenty of time to talk about it in peace. As far as the financial situation is concerned, the fact is that we are now in a special position to provide health care to all those who have suffered from Covidom-19 infection and that this is our priority because it means not only that we have to provide financial resources for the adaptation of our hospital spaces, for the opening of respiratory centres, for the unification of certain functions of intensive care, intensive therapy, the acquisition of apparatus etc., etc., so for now we in one part would say reduced health work on issues of more selective procedures, and to the maximum focus on what cannot wait, and these are clearly medical emergencyes and malignant diseases, in this respect we have maximum orientation. and technical and financial, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198795	Thank you. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198796	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, as I understand from your debate, the government, or the state, has no money to pay to allow parents to stay, at least one of the two employed parents to stay with their children at home. When we estimated what the amount would be for the next period, we came to some billions of kunas if we used that exactly all in the Republic of Croatia in such a situation, which probably wouldn't be the case. But it's amazing to me that for our children, for parents who have to work with them on their home education, who have to take care of them, try to be sure in some way not to expose them to this whole situation under the motto "stay home" the government says there's no money for it. For some other things that cost the same thing, there's money. Now, you explain to me why the government can't find the money to keep each of our parent employees at least one of them, with their children at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198797	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198798	So I can't speak on behalf of the government, I'm not Prime Minister or Prime Minister, but I can say what and repeat what I said today and today this part of the financial compensation is not part of it, not part of which would be the health insurance from which patients who need to finance the health system as a whole are financed. So he just can't get into this law. If the government has money from some other means, I can't say it right now because I'm neither Minister of Finance nor Prime Minister, but I can't get into HZZO health insurance, it's not the same, there's no place for that legal space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198799	A fellow Maras injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198800	Thank you very much. The 238th article was injured, you here Mr. Secretary of State said you couldn't answer because you're neither Prime Minister nor Minister of Finance, and why did you come here to give your opinion on it? Are you just here to convey greetings and messages or represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about this law? You must give us an answer if you are a representative of the government. Why is it not possible to secure these funds in the state budget? It's going to be budget rebalance, plan them, you can't tell us that's not possible. So I'm begging you, Mr. Vice President, they're here. Government representatives have to give us answers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198801	Thank you, so in. So just for a second, so you can't because this isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Maras. [[/Intruder: Can I answer?]] So they give answers within their means, so no injured Rules of Procedure Please don't do this anymore. [[Intruder: Within its resources.]] Third replica of Anka's colleague, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198802	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you are here on behalf of your ministry and on behalf of the Government and we expect answers from you. In my replica, I ask you to read the following fact. So we at the GLAS Club immediately applied for an emergency procedure of the law where those in self-insulation linked to the threat we have from the virus would have a fee different from that prescribed at this point. What exactly is this about? It's about two weeks of self-insulation, and we only gave that up when it started, the fee was 2,100 kuna and it remained. But there's something else, when we looked at that law, that compensation for people who decided to donate an organ to someone, so they give someone their kidney, when they're on sick leave to receive a fee of 4,400 kuna in a month. So I'm interested in your position regarding these self-insulation and organ donation charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198803	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198804	It is difficult to compare the diseases resulting from organ transplants and the issue of organ transplanters with Covida-19 infection. These are two things that in medicine simply cannot be compared because they have neither the same etiology nor the same medical I would say weight. As for financial compensation to people who are in isolation or self-insulation, it is as much as the Government has decided at the moment that they can give, and whether there will be financial resources in the coming period depending on the development of the overall situation with this pandemic that is something we will see in the future, and probably according to that, we will then be different and financially oriented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198805	Thank you. Now we have three replicas of Secretary of State Salapic. The first is a colleague of the coat of arms, you can talk slowly, and you'll make one small intervention. Thank you. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198806	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, I assume you know what I'm going to ask you, and this concerns the situation in the judiciary and the fact that despite the announcements made by the Minister of Justice Mr. Bosnjakovic in the interim building of a meeting in the basement of a historic ININE building 10 days ago, we still don't have a law that would regulate the course of court deadlines in times of crisis. And you and I both know how many problems there are in the Croatian judiciary otherwise, we know that these problems are further highlighted now in the Kovid era, we know that there are courts that are blocked because individuals in these courts have been infected, we know that the earthquake makes it impossible to use a whole series of courts buildings in Zagreb. My question is, when are you going to refer to the procedure a law that will regulate the time-limits in court proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198807	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198808	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, we are in preparation for the deadline law, and we have already repeated it several times. It's not about one law. It's about a set of laws and a very sensitive matter. What I can say responsibly, the justice system in the circumstances in which we are caused by the earthquake, Covidom-19, works so that the rule of law is not compromised at any time. As for the specifics, we are in a few days will be after Easter and with you here in Parliament discussing this. There is nothing that would endanger any citizens of the Republic of Croatia to protect their rights, and also as far as investigative procedures are concerned, the urgency of court proceedings, all courts in the Republic of Croatia are doing their job in such a way that these laws are implemented no matter where the court is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198809	Thank you. The next replica of Anka's colleague Mrak Taritas, followed by counterpart Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198810	Before starting with the replicas, distinguished secretary of state, therefore we are in this area not because of the crown but because of the earthquake that was in Zagreb. The earthquake that was in Zagreb, what we have a chance to see has done a lot of damage in courts that are basically in the lower city where there was damage. I'm curious, of course, when you're here, then you're going to give us answers to what we have a chance to ask you, which is whether it started with the damage recovery, as you've thought, whether or not with the Ministry in charge of the property you're seeing some other locations where the work of the judiciary might take place, because some resolutions will take a very long time, and we think that life can't stop and we hope that this threat will end quickly, so that life will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198811	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198812	Thank you very much. You were the Minister of Construction, and then you know that some demands are complicated. As far as the County Court building in Zagreb is concerned, the reconstruction took place immediately after the earthquake and will eventually become operational. As for replacement properties, we have found several locations that will soon be published by one of them is a building on Harambasic Street that has about 4000 square meters, there will be moved by certain judicial institutions, the Commercial Court, part of the Administrative, etc. What we've been doing certainly from the day of the earthquake to today, we've taken steps to make the entire justice system work soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198813	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198814	Thank you. Dear Secretary Salapic, please answer my very simple question, you have now announced publicly that the government will prepare a stalemate of all tasks. But from what I've come from the media, I've concluded that it's a law relating to monetary performances, but I'm asking you specifically now, does this mean that it's going to be a stalemate of all tasks, means those who go through the FINE and those who the employer takes out from pay and pay the creditor where the pension is, too, part of the pension goes to the believer, will all of this be covered by the stalemate, and will there be a delay in the flow of tight interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198815	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198816	Your Honor, I've said and I repeat three times, we've been working on everything, we've made a recommendation to the public notaries to do a stop since the day the earthquake happened and these results caused by Covidom-19. No executioner has received an executive solution, no action, no execution, no actions. Within a week, we will unblock 240,000 citizens in time of 3 months when they will be able to fully manage their incomes in full amounts. As for the others, if I did not say in advance something that needs to be discussed on professional bodies, I would not want to be hasty to make sure that at this point we stop and help as many Croatian citizens as possible at the risk of this health threat in a way that we will stop as much as possible with the executive procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198817	Thank you. Next we have two replicas to the secretary of state, Mrs. Buric. We have, first is colleagues Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic. A little intervention, so we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198818	Dear Secretary of State, you have proudly pointed out in your presentation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the first step of 3,200 kuna in the second of 4,000 kunas net and around 5,200 gross for more than 80,000 employers and about 500,000 Croatian workers. I wonder if you can give us information on how much of these 500,000 workers before the crisis and before the decision on the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had a salary greater or significantly greater than that 3,200 kuna or 4,000 kuna or whether you can tell us how many of them fell to the minimum because of this government decision and whether these employers will still feel this crisis or not, or whether it will fall on the back of those 500,000 workers. And on the other hand, I have to comment that in your comparison of support from the SDP government I have an impression, I hope I'm wrong, as if you're lucky that this crisis hit Croatia so that you can say that HDZ has given 500,000 support, which is much less than he was giving the SDP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's exactly what I noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198819	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198820	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Giujic, I'm sorry that your feeling is cheating on you, it's very cheating on you. So I'll repeat our focus is health protection and on the other hand protection of all jobs. That is why we have provided an additional 8.5 billion kuna for the support measure to preserve jobs. What I must also tell you is that today we have 84,000 demands for about 500,000 workers, and so far we have paid about 600 million kuna. We're working at five speeds and moving on intensively. I just want to say that in the HZZ which is the implementing body for this measure, officials work in two shifts, so it is really intensive and what is our main intensity and the main goal is to preserve jobs. Also facilitating employers, facilitating workers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198821	Thank you. Next replica of colleague Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198822	Mrs Buric argued in her presentation that the measures of the government of the Republic of Croatia are equally supported by employers, workers and trade unions. It's only partially true. So you've respected almost all the proposals that came from the HUP, but not a single proposal that came from the union. Moreover, an amendment to the Labour Act has been prepared in your ministry to derogate workers' rights. That's fortunately prevented at the GSV session at least for the time being. Can you tell me if you are planning to bring any changes to the Labour Law in due time or if you are planning something else that we have already heard to suit workers, rather than going towards breaking this crisis just over their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198823	Thank you. Here's an answer from the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198824	Thank you very much. So that component, which is unfortunately unpredictable, is the duration of this entire crisis related to the crown, i.e. Covid-19. Our short-term measures and the medium-term measures are presented, before you. What I am extremely pleased about is that a very high consensus has been reached, I will repeat both employers and workers and unions and the overall social community and I believe that in any case it is something that is very important at this time and because of the feelings of our citizens and the sense of security and protection in very, very difficult and challenging times. Anyway, what I also have to tell you is that we've opened absolutely all the questions, we've assumed all the questions and we're considering [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198825	Thank you. And the last set of replicas on Secretary of State Zrinasic. There you go. You don't have a replica anymore. First up, she's a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198826	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have spent a lot of time with us in this crisis, and in your opening statement, you have explained what you have done, what you have done, what you intend to do. We don't normally think in GLAS that the state should always and every time everything is very sharp and everything needs to be regulated and regulated, but when it comes to banks, when it comes to the moratorium on loans, when it comes to the lying houses that colleagues were talking about in the opening presentation, we don't think that it can just work on a deal between the resolution minister and the banks, so that banks decide, we think it should also be defined by law. Don't let it happen to us that behind this crown epidemic and the downfall of the economy, the only one who will benefit from it and come out richer will be the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198827	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198828	Here, thank you very much. I agree with your suggestion in terms of the treatment of all entities in this crisis and the financial sector mentioned. Of course, this one division of all the participants in this situation is very important in terms of balance and tomorrow the continuation of life, as well as our citizens, and economic operators, and ultimately the financial institutions that in their part this is leaning on or these former ones are leaning on them. We have had some further proceedings that financial institutions have launched against the Republic of Croatia for, due to the adoption of certain legal norms that we still have court proceedings outside the Republic of Croatia, and in that sense, the government in the first steps has been better agreed than imperative if it is possible. Of course, this tall home and all together We'll bring certain regulations that are best. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198829	Thank you. Comrade coat of arms, here's another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198830	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, of course, and my question will be focused on the moratorium on loans, you understand why. I got word today by a gentleman with his situation, a loan he took last year, a war of 3,000 kunas a month, a clear principal in this year has paid nothing back. In order to get a six-month stay, so to get a refund of $18,000, the bank will account for an interest of more than 12,000. Do you think that's okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198831	Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198832	Thank you very much. Now you've brought up one case that is probably and life-like, I really can't get into the calculations right now, but the situations that have happened so far, or today, in terms of the crisis triggered by the corona virus, they're not at all comparable, so we're going to agree, and what this crisis is about to take action is to take those measures that were unimaginable until yesterday. So in this sense, what we are discussing today and what will be discussed in the coming days and making appropriate decisions will certainly require some measures that may not have been imagined in the past, and so this question that you are now asking, indeed weighs now what is right, you are a lawyer in the given conduct in terms of the Law on Mandatory Relations and other measures that, in certain exceptional circumstances, are necessary to take, this is something that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198833	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198834	Thank you, Vice President. So, first of all, I would like to say that all state secretaries here represent the government and I can't say that they don't represent the government, if they don't represent the government, they shouldn't have come here, she should have come as Prime Minister and Minister. Why is the suspension of the moratorium on loans of 3 months not sufficient? Because people took credit for example. in tourist activity extended either quality or expanded their accommodation facilities. This season is gone, it is clear to all of us, because the crown must stop not only in Croatia it must stop throughout Europe or around the world for tourists to go at all. Those people already know. What does it mean to them if after three months they have to pay off the loan, and they don't make money because this year they won't make any money. So, come on, let's approach the reasonable problem, reasonablely. So this proposal of ours to be for a year until they start working, until they start working is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198835	Thank you. Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198836	Thank you very much for asking. The measures launched by the Government during March and relating to the Coronal Virus, of course, are seen in terms of other Member States that are economically stronger and more powerful in terms of the construction of measures concerning the state budget. In this part and other measures that are not directly related to the state budget, of course the government has watched other Member States do so since we are EU members. Indeed, it is one graduation and degree of measures, so that the synchronicity and solidarity of all participants is now extremely important and not only as a flossula, and not only as a flossula, but also as an necessity to overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198837	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the proposal, actually, a set of laws. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, so she is a colleague of Grozdana Peric's. Here you go, after the intervention, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198838	Respect for the esteemed vice president, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, first and foremost to the Government, and we must always respect all the good proposals that are possible to always be accepted and incorporated into even better legal proposals. What we cannot accept at this time, which is this set of your laws, the SDP proposal, primarily because, as you know, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, and unfortunately, the earthquake that took place on the 22nd of this month and last month, so the two situations that were in any scenario were actually amazing. When the government agreed on those first March measures, it was only thinking about what would happen and what would be the consequences of the pandemic, and you know very well that when any measure is taken that all facts must then be considered, all the effects that would be and how such a situation would reflect both on the economy and on private lives, and in the first place on the health of the population or the whole nation. Therefore, when such measures are taken, they must be very well thought out. You have to take full parameters as if you're doing a new budget because all of the details you have to take care of. So in that first set, the measure covered what we had previously adopted, and we cannot say that it was very bad at that moment. The second set of measures came after this not even 15 days and today we adopted it and you must admit that there are many factors involved that have helped and calmed the whole situation and the uncertainty that has been caused by these two disasters. In the first part of the fee itself was 3,250 plus contributions, now it is 4,000 plus contributions, and in the meantime you see that there have been changes in that everything, every employer who fired a part of the worker precisely because of this uncertainty that he will be able to continue to work, has been given the opportunity to bring these employees back, and at this point there are 13,600 employees who then exercise the right, so they do not interrupt the employment relationship and return to the system of work and have the right to compensation of 4,000 kuna increased for the contributions that are once again on the burden of the state budget and what is important to say that the weight of these measures is over 8.5 billion kuna. At this point, we know that over 60,000 taxpayers, or entrepreneurs, have requested this measure and that more than 600 million kunas have already been paid. Very soon, so in the month, and only a practical application was made. What you should also say is that in, that citizenship and what you have in certain legal requirements is actually a request for a moratorium and so on. credit obligations are all understood, but at this point what we have brought is that through the amendments to the General Tax Law we have regulated exactly the possibility of these obligations being suspended temporarily, to stop the implementation and for all other public duties, and it is certainly always a question of what, after 3 months or after 6 months. And it's perfectly justified that we all think about it because each one of us has or has or has credit obligations and certainly doesn't care when that obligation arrives. However, let the government do and do these, these two packages that will be adopted within a very short period of time, and a new measure that will allow citizens to be so much more peaceful and that it can function in this way. It's already mentioned today what happens and when it's going to happen. In fact, it's very important how long it's going to take this particular measure that's caused by Covido-19. And what remains secretly to us in the following certainly 7, 8 if not for many years, which is these measures that will need to be done to help citizens rebuild apartments, houses, historical sights, churches, etc. and we will certainly have much help from EU funds. What we are also talking about when we talk about a set of these measures is about paying VAT, I have already mentioned that in the VAT projection for this year there were over 50 we expect revenue 55 and some billion kuna and now after this everything that happens pandemic, there is no tourism, there is no consumption, and besides these elemental disasters, then we can assume how much impact all this will have on the revenue side of the budget that cannot expect so much charge and which will have to think very much about a lot of other sources of funding. We must not forget that it is already in previous measures that it is possible for companies to private up to 7.5 million traffic or over 7.5 with a 20 per cent or more drop in traffic to 50%, that the possibility of partly prolonging, reprogramming, to write off part of the claim and debt, therefore a large part of these measures has already been consumed and I think that the Government has responded in a very good and rapid way about all of this. What you just insisted on, and this secretary of state expected to answer your question, so it really can't happen if something isn't caused by disease, infection, etc. that pay compensation cannot then be compensated from a source of compulsory health insurance, then there are other measures because you know it is illegal. So you can't prejudge something, so you can't be sick, but there was a measure for it, and there's a way that you can pay off on a different basis, and another way that can be helped, and eventually it's accepted and we finally adopted it. So when we look at the total of these measures that are now over 45 billion kuna plus 20 billion that have reached commitments from previous periods, then you see that the set of these measures is over 9.6% of our GDP, which is certainly more than many other European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198839	Thank you, thank you. We're continuing on behalf of the clubs. Next registered counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. A colleague of Zekanovic does not have and in accordance with Article 233 he loses the right to talk about this item of the agenda for, throughout the entire debate. We continue with the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, colleagues of Grmoje and colleagues of Bulj shared the debate. First one's a colleague of the Grmoi. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198840	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we warned with that first package of government measures that these measures would not be enough, we said that we needed to go to the write-off, not to the delays, and the government listened to us. At that time, no amendment to the opposition was accepted. Not because these amendments were bad because it proved later that the government was all what we were saying at the Most but also other colleagues actually accepted, but they weren't accepted just because they came from the ranks of the opposition. Today we have the same situation, the second, second round of the Government package, all the amendments we have given have been rejected and it can be concluded that in this crisis situation the opposition shows unity and constructiveness, and by ruling again shows one party boredom. This is what grieves all over this story, and in particular the sadness that those first to be thought of, to whom the first should be intended package they will come third in a row, in the third round after Easter. Our seniors, our pensioners, our unemployed, our blocked and completed. MOST first thinks of you or think of you first, not as the last, as those on which the measures will be taken after the Easter. We asked the Croatian Parliament to continue the session, to support itself or our proposal because we too have a proposal on a moratorium on loans and performances or a proposal from colleagues from the SDP, but we do not even ask for that. Give you your ruling proposal, give your government colleagues your proposal we will gladly raise your hand to him. Our citizens who are the most endangered in our society deserve a peaceful and peaceful Easter, deserve a resurrection without a cold, a resurrection without fear, a Easter in joy with their families. So much for me, and hopefully here you'll change your mind, there's still time, the president of the assembly can call and tomorrow's session of the assembly, the government can give its measures and we'll be happy to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198841	Please stop the time for a moment, thank you. A little intervention. Thank you, ma'am or miss. Here you go, fellow Bull, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198842	My colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representatives of the government, why am I partly disappointed? Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said so too, but it is noticeable in the general public that the opposition is making constructive proposals, and that the Government simply rejects them, and anything proposed constructively by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the opposition accepts it. These measures that the MOST has also given, and we are now discussing the SDP measures especially about the most endangered, about the postponement of the credit, about the delay of the performance, that's what the first tribal is about, the first measure. These people are the most endangered right now. No one would forgive these people, but it would be delayed if they weren't responsible for this crisis. And what he would point to here, today was a vote on the results of Croatian politics, poor conduct of Croatian agriculture, bad leadership, so I gave the law on the ban on the sale of agricultural land. The government rejected it, both foreign and legal, foreign and legal individuals. It is the government of the Republic of Croatia, the honourable representatives of the government, the citizens, if you are looking, who refused to sell agricultural land, refused my proposal to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. And the agricultural land, is, right now, agriculture has said that the wrong policies we had mainly towards agriculture so that it disappoints me that the opposition is constructive at this point, accepts all the proposals that you government representatives make, and you reject all of ours from the opposition, but these are proposals for the benefit of the citizens. Well, a lot of the suggestions I've made for SDP hasn't voted for them, but this is a good proposal, I'll support it. You would hardly accept any amendment, any proposal from the opposition. Why? Because you're using both the crisis and this health and economic crisis exclusively for the PR, and that's not good, everyone here is equal, we're all at risk. Thus, when we are discussing these laws and speaking now with us at Easter today, he represented the council in this crisis, of course, that they should be much, much more constructive from the position of power. If we're looking for a delay, because now it's SDP law, and MOST suggested it, the MOST Club and this and other colleagues in the opposition don't see any reason why you wouldn't accept it and why the government didn't put that measure into emergency procedure and we would vote again today or come tomorrow. And not now for Easter you leave that space, the greatest Christian holiday I congratulate from this place I wish all happy and blessed Easter, the greatest Christian holiday to all our citizens. For days, it was broken whether markets should be opened, so of course the triba with all the respect measures because it is more likely to be infected by the coronary virus in a closed area trade chain, but foreign products are sold there, and domestic products were mostly sold in the markets. Here I hear the announcement now and it is my pleasure that after a long, long application will open up markets that should not have been closed at all, but with all the criteria of respect that the Tribals would respect as in trade chains, but better to buy Italian pomidores, it is better to buy strawberries than this Spain than Vrgoračka, it is better to buy meaning those products. Here, I would say in the end that I am disappointed that we are not continuing to work while all groups of unemployed, retired, particularly completed and blocked and, of course, all these measures he has proposed in this case suggest opposition to what we are leaving. The government could have made this simple, it could have made a proposal for its additions and we could have settled it in this big week before it meant Big Thursday and Big Friday. In this way we would actually come to a solution and a peaceful Easter. In the end, you would wish all the citizens a happy and blessed Easter, hopefully if there are measures here, you see 151 of us here that on this greatest Christian holiday and Croatian believers will have the possibility under all measures either within the sacral churches, either outside churches, here you in the government or in front of churches or in the courtyards will be allowed at least to share, not all, part of the people, the believers can unfortunately have the opportunity to participate in this greatest Christian meanings on Easter, the greatest Christian holiday and the sacrament. And once again, I wish you all a happy and blessed Easter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198843	Thank you. We are continuing to debate on behalf of the club of MPs, next is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, in front of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Taritash. So five minutes dark, five minutes Taritate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198844	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the Crown Virus or Covida-19, no matter what we call it, has caused major changes in our lives. One of these changes will also be seen on the greatest Christian holiday of Easter that we will certainly not be working in a circle of some broader family because everyone is staying home and I really respect that if you are guarding yourself, guarding someone else and keeping everyone around you and we are taking care of it. We sit here at a distance, we don't shake hands, we take care of each other, and when we talk to someone, we use space. And that's all the coronary virus has changed, but something hasn't changed. It did not change that when it comes to opposition proposals that they will get their place in the Croatian Parliament in the worst time, so now not even the evening term, but after the vote, this package of laws won and did not change that when the opposition gives amendments, that these amendments, no matter how reasonable they may be, how helpful they might even be, that they refuse to explain themselves. I'm just going to refer to me as the favorite amendment that was rejected today by our club, we've given an amendment that is related to office leaders and tourism that, because of the Corona virus or Covida-19, they no longer need to know foreign language. So when the coronary is a virus or a Covida-10, those who run offices, they don't have to know foreign language with tourism. And now we say the amendment of my people so don't do crazy things, it has nothing to do with it, and it's being rejected, and it's quite serious, the secretary of state has explained why it's happening, if you're asking me why, I don't know, but it's been pretty serious. But let's get back to this subject. The first set of measures that was in March, I must admit that I'm always somehow trying to understand, so whether or not I agree with that first set of measures that we can call March I understood. We didn't know what the scales were, no matter what the crown was rolling behind the hills when it came to Europe, someone got a little better, someone got a little worse. It was not a willingness to bring some options, or some variants, because it did not know how long this would take. So I had this first set of measures that way. The second set of measures I called April 1 0, because with the certainty that a second set of measures will come in April which we will call April 2 0, all those who spoke can't go in just a delay you have to write off, you have to define something. We spoke as opposition MPs, they spoke to the businessmen, they all said, and in that second set of measures, some things were heard. And you saw that at the vote that was today and that was 130 of us, I don't remember when we were, the last time we were 130 when there was a set of measures or a little less of those Marchs, it just means that after all, the MPs, no matter how we were perceived, are responsible. We are responsible for what we are saying, we are responsible for certain crisis situations and this responsibility and opposition parliamentary deputies are really ready to take over on their backs and no matter what you're discussing and with some things you disagree with and some things you warn us that now the situation is next, which is that we need to support and support a set of measures, but for tango we need two. Tango doesn't go to one, so no matter how you turn around, but the other one's just like that, he's gone to sleep somewhere, and he's waiting somewhere. That's what I'm saying between, so the opposition suggests something, and on the other hand it's a government that's pretty hard to say that these things can't be accepted, but then at some headquarters conferences that I can really say that it seems to me that it's doing a good job, it's using time to deal with some political inexperiences, which is not good. So, at these moments, the opposition has made clear everything from the government that comes, and we conclude that it is good that it will help the citizen, we will support the citizens, but we also think that the time when the opposition proposes something, so sit down, talk, let's talk. And it's not even a problem that then the government in some package April 2 0, May 1 0 or that took what was there and said here we took and said one sentence is the subject of a common agreement. As long as the crown lasts, it should listen to experts and they somehow predict how it will grow, fall, linearly and everything else. What will be the consequences of the Corone or Covida-19 on the economy that no one, regardless of the experiences they have, can predict. It seems to us that this crisis is to be used for a few things. The first thing to take advantage of is a little look at our laws being written. They're being written unreasonablely, written in a way that we don't want them to be understood by anyone, complicated, complicated in procedures, we tend to complicate where we shouldn't. Maybe one of the situations, or the outcome of this crisis, that we all think about it together a little bit. I will only take one example, of course I live in the City of Zagreb, until the City of Zagreb would care, an example of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the behaviour of the City of Gas. People closed the gas in houses that weren't even damaged by the earthquake because they were well built. The gas station said okay, to let you gas out, you have to come to us, you have to fill in 3 or 4 requirements in the context of the crown only you come to us maybe someone has, so we'll split it up and pay 3,000 kuna and then when you do all that, then we'll make a list of priorities and we'll go and release that gas. My people, if it weren't true, it would be for one of those comedies or soap operas, but that's true. So, the first time I heard it from a guy in the city gas station, I was sitting at home, I thought I heard something wrong, I heard something. So, from this crisis, maybe we could come out smarter because look at the e-citizen working neatly, everything works through emails, let's be something smarter and try to see the regulations and see what we regulate and how we regulate it. Another thing we should be able to get out of this crisis, we should be clearly wondering what kind of economy we want for Croatia, whether we want to hang on to tourism, whether we want to only hang on to imports and certain services, or if we think something else is going on here. Today we voted for the amendments to the Agriculture Act, which in the sense of no one at all is disputed, but in the debate we're the Minister of Resorna was with us, we said something we might need to take well-meaningly, we think the time has come when agriculture is for a serious reset. Something about that farm and the way we work is wrong. This is the moment when we can reset ourselves, we can take the green plan that the EU has made regarding climate change, more climate change after 2 months we no longer mention ourselves, and two months ago our mouths were full of climate change, see what the green threshold for agriculture is, and maybe it's a strategy for the development of Croatia's agriculture with some adjustments. From this set of laws, it is especially important that the law which speaks of a delay is related to loans. No, and that's what I said to the secretary of state, and I repeat, and now for the rest of this pay phone, don't let this crisis that's hit us all, we still don't know what the scales are, the ones that come out unscathed or richer, be banks, like it was in every crisis. Let's try to really take care of our citizens and the problems they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198845	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The last reported debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives was a debate reported by counterpart Tomislav Žagar, in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198846	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear State Secretarys and State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. The HSU Club, independent representatives, New Politics and SNAGA will support this set of laws proposed by the SDP Club because one member of our club participated actively in the preparation of these laws. Why is that? Well, this set of laws, first of all, all those measures that the government, which we voted today, are vertical and horizontally expanding. Vertically in the amount of compensation and assistance to be provided, and horizontally to most of our citizens who are not covered by these measures that we adopted here at HS today. Namely, the secretary of state here when she initially explained why the government rejects these bill proposals, I apologize, that's a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club said two important dates, one date was March 19th when the pandemic was declared and the second date was March 22nd when the earthquake was in Zagreb. Why do I mention these two laws? We can see that this process is extremely turbulent and dynamic and that the government, at least so far, has not shown the right way of planning, planning future activities, but is exclusively used for what is otherwise used when steering or managing, requires some kind of feedback, so on 23rd of the earthquake in Zagreb, the 23rd of March center has made a decision to ban leaving the place of residence. Watch out, places of residence, and then this caused a huge amount of passes that were issued because we have 6756 seats in Croatia. That picture shows how things work out only when they come up, and little is planned in advance. Of course, respecting the fact that it's hard to do things and plan ahead. The second thing that matters, as far as these measures are concerned, was not a great situation before the outbreak in the Republic of Croatia. So, even before the outbreak occurred, 140 thousand people were at the Employment Service, but we must not forget the large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had left the Republic of Croatia before that and hired in other countries. We also see that these citizens are returning to the Republic of Croatia, they have no place to go but to the Employment Service, and since the adoption, since the announcement, since the crisis occurred, we see that a large number of citizens have already ended up at the Employment Office. It is true that these government measures can be re-employed and re-received, this amount provided for in the measures. It is seen here that this is a serious, serious crisis and that what the secretary of state has highlighted, and what is the most important parameter in the whole crisis, which is the time of this crisis, which no one can predict how long it will last. So we have an extremely dynamic and busy period in which entrepreneurs will have to respond to the challenges ahead. That's why I think this set of measures is good, but the government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact, the Ministry of Finance, the minister, will have to respond as soon as possible to what kind of rebalancing is expected of the budget in the future. To that question, I think it's going to be the biggest, the biggest challenge on this issue is going to be. And what is crucial is why these measures should be supported. The government will certainly think of them if it does not support them, because although the announcement of this third set of measures will be directed towards citizens, so that it will not be late, because as I said, citizens who are already at the Employment Service, everyone who, whether earlier, has now gone to the Bureau, all who have had problems serving their obligations, especially loans, there are, of course, students, pensioners who find it difficult today. It's hard for them for a number of reasons, and mostly for the fact that their pensions are small, and then this crisis hit them. For all these citizens, therefore, measures should be taken to facilitate and enable them to live and overcome this difficult situation. When GDP is growing, the biggest benefit is those who are richer, but even when GDP falls, it breaks over the back of the poorest, and therefore these measures are very important. In the last debate there when we had in the INA building I mentioned it, I will mention again, that, not by chance, and the financial sector will not hesitate to come out of this process uncircumcised, and in fact they will try to come out uncircumcised in all ways, and that is what the credit rating agency which has reduced Croatia by one degree. Their assessment that GDP would fall by 5%, this could mean according to that rough, budget that the unemployment rate would be 2.5% at least and that is 50,000 people without jobs and these are the things that we will have to answer because it is about citizens who will be out of work, employers of course who will have to close their trades or their businesses and because of these things we need to think about measures as soon as possible and bring them forward. That's why I think this set of measures is good, we'll support them at the club, and I'm telling the government to think hard if he doesn't want to accept the proposals coming from the opposition, and we see that this is the case, so let the public, as soon as possible, have a set of measures that will allow citizens to overcome this crisis and live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198847	Thank you, too. We ended the discussion on behalf of the clubs. We're continuing an individual debate. I'd like to ask Miss for a little intervention, and then a colleague of mine, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198848	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the adoption of this second package, I believe that most of these legal proposals on behalf of the SDP Club will be implemented through the regulation and the former provisions of certain laws. Likewise, certain legislative proposals are not intended to say so to the address to which they might be said, but what I think is also why I came forward for an individual debate and wanted to share with you, and also to point out one problem that first and foremost my colleague Lalovac and I have been talking about in this assembly for a long time, which is a liquidity problem. And this directly binds to this law on credit forgiveness because when we talk about liquidity, then citizens are also liquid and liquid. So, did this legal proposal cover all the obligations that Croatian citizens have. Not only do Croatian citizens have only loans, they also have a commitment to leasing societies and a commitment to card houses, a commitment to insurance companies, a commitment to teleopers and a number of other obligations. Therefore, this law, and I think that the Government is thinking about it, must be complete and must cover all aspects of the obligations that our citizens have. Also, colleagues and colleagues should not forget that over the past few years Croatian entrepreneurs from craftsmen have had an extremely high investment cycle, investing money in economic activities. And many of them have found themselves in this package of measures that the government has proposed, which is to pay salaries and not have to pay pension and health for the simple reason, whether because of the provisions of the headquarters, whether because of this or that reason they simply stopped doing business. And we're talking about a moratorium on loans, so we just have to put all of them in those packages. And that's why the law deserves far wider scope, deserves far more attention for reasons, if we don't approach it that way she thinks we're going to make a lot of trouble. The other thing, from a month ago and a few days ago when there was a law on insurance in the assembly I repeat about the responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. To be honest, I expected that both business banks and Leasing companies and insurance companies would come out with some package of their own when this crisis started with one single goal to protect those who bring them profits. Because they, if those who took up credit with them who made insurance policies or who took something to Leasing if they can't pay them first, put them in trouble. So they should be in the interest of finding that first package. And I think the government is talking in that direction. We have heard that the CNB has already brought about certain changes that they can react to, and if in such a way we could approach this problem which I believe is crucial to the state's funding problem in the coming months, then the law would be comprehensive. And it's a good idea for a colleague from the SDP Club to propose it as a law, but this bill of yours solves only one small segment, just one small segment. Because what difference does it make whether you have to pay the loan or whether you need a war lying to society or whether you need to pay the war to the insurance company, no. It's your obligation that if, and what I think is still important at this point, if you work normally, you do business, you get paid, then this measure doesn't have to apply to you. This measure should apply to those who do not function normally, who do not receive salaries and ultimately we as a social state must take care of our citizens. And I'm saying I think the government will come out with a package that will certainly take care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, without intending to tell you, but colleagues and colleagues you've only dealt with this law one little segment, and that's why I wanted to share this debate with you because I think Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198849	We have one replica, please you can stay. He's a friend of Sagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198850	Dear fellow Shuker, I agree with you, it's true it would be very good for the banks to decide to negotiate with their clients to see which way it goes. However, this so you know from experience doesn't work, it just doesn't work, it's about positions of power, banks are extremely powerful compared to their clients, especially citizens. And actually this, as far as I understand it, is going towards the weakest, the most vulnerable, because with them banks are hardly going to negotiate. It is therefore necessary to define legal frameworks to create moratories on commitments, but not in such a way as to further accumulate interest later, but to simply buy that time for these people, so that while they overcome the crisis, they can continue to serve their obligations. Of course you're right when you talk about other obligations, like, according to the Leasing societies and everyone else, but I think it's from the position that it's hard to expect that banks will work that way. They still need to be legally forced to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198851	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198852	Comrade Sagar, that you listened carefully to what they said, I said that legally, if we need to, we need to solve everything. And the normal thing is that we have to think about those who are the most vulnerable, that we have to react here, but I repeat, everyone in their segment is important. And I guess the banks burned after that big crisis 10 years ago and how great they are. The placements had to be converted into non-refundable claims and that they would think and think about how to save those who ultimately bring them profits and repay loans and pay interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198853	Thank you. The next debate is a debate from fellow Pernar. And a little intervention from my colleague Pernar. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198854	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The solutions this government has for the current crisis are not adequate and will not solve it, and I will explain why. The main problem is with loans, by putting on a moratorium, the cause of the problem is not solved. The problem is that these loans will ultimately need to be paid back and that many people living on tourism during the summer months are expensive money to pay off the loan for the rest of the year. However, in this case, what will happen? Moratorium will last, for example. For the next few months, they'll run out of money from the season, it's just a season, for example. failed, which is very likely to happen and suddenly end this extraordinary state of Beroshevo. Yeah, this isn't gonna last forever. And what happens when it goes away? And then the banks will say now, look, there's no state of emergency, the loans have to go back, and the revenues from this summer are gone. Where are these people gonna get your loans back from? They've got nowhere to go. Another problem, all the time this moratorium, interest is accounted for. So are you aware of what that means? Where are people gonna get those interest back from? The legislator doesn't care. Here's an identical example of the work. The government says we're introducing a moratorium to execution. And what does that mean in practice? Well, in practice, it means that the same scheme goes on the same way. It's not going to stop now, it's just going to bring down that waterfall, as soon as these measures are cut off, and the reason for this whole executive hell is that the performances are actually given to public notebooks, which they can account for whatever fees and what ultimately, you have enormous costs of the execution, so people don't necessarily kill the debt for water of 200 kuna, but they get killed by the costs of the execution. They're getting killed by the fee that FINA's taking. FINA is taking an enormous fee. Did the government solve that question? No, I don't. The government neither solves the issue of interest, or there are no interest moratories, nor does it think about what will be left of income with people this summer, and when the moratorium passes, it will have to. Yes, when the moratorium passes and this state of emergency passes, it will have to continue to repay the loan, it has nowhere to go. The government doesn't care about that. This solution that the government has, you know what these solutions are? These are short-term solutions. Maybe the government has a solution to the election of parliamentarys at 9:00. I mean, what's it gonna be in 10, 11, 12, 1, 2, 3. Mesa, 5 months. Next year? And the government doesn't think about it. This is one crazy way, this policy has no vision whatsoever. Also, there's one more thing I want to say. If the population is not divided into young and old, both healthy and sick, and it will go with a general quarantine story that is being imposed on us at all times, it will take a very long time for a critical number of people in the population to get infected and get over the crown. Yeah, that's the problem. It's going to take a very long time, instead of being, because young people, they have no mortality at all, 0.1%. Instead of allowing young people to get over, get immunity, a critical part of the population to have resistance to this virus and end with quarantine measures, quarantine measures will be delayed indefinitely. And you know what kind of solution they're going to offer? Then he'll offer as a solution, what? The vaccine. And then they'll tell my people, we have to protect the weaker. But you all need to be vaccinated. And what about those who refuse to vaccinate? He'll be in trouble again. I don't see where this policy leads, I can't understand people who support the general instead of selective quarantine. I don't know how many more months they're planning on keeping the whole people in this agony because people are mentally firing and they can't take this condition anymore. But nobody cares about that, and half the country's on the minimal, which is what those who are unemployed and who were planning to do, seasons, have nothing to live on, so nobody cares. The state doesn't regulate it at all, I asked Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic, what about those who don't have a fee from the Stock Exchange? What do they live on now that they can't find a job? And Plenkovic says, Alardovic will find a solution. I don't see him yet. When will this solution come? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198855	Thank you, colleague Pernar. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Sasa Djujic, please a little intervention, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198856	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues from the SDP. So here's how much the government is interested in our measures and our proposals, this shows that there aren't any MPs in the hall right now except for the SDPs. So, they're full of the mouth of the community and all that... Now you're in, now you're in [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you're in. ... [[Intruder: Mr. Pernar.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198857	Mr. Pernar, Mr. Pernar Mr. Djujic, Mr. Pernar. [[You're in from the outside now.]] Mr. Pernar Mr. Pernar. ... [[Intruder: Yes.]] Mr. Pernar, a reminder [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm not gonna throw him out, but I'm giving him a warning, this behavior is not appropriate. [[Don't kick him out because then he'll say you threw him out on purpose so I can say there's no one but us.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198858	Here, I welcome fellow Pernar who just returned and fellow Shucker who has now entered, thank you very much. So what I'm saying is, this is already the 3rd package of measures SDP is proposing. 3. package, so after the first two of which none of them were adopted, none of them were accepted. So we propose certain solutions and certain measures that the Government then partially accepts after a while. The same thing is with this package. So here and just now, my colleague Schucker said in his debate that we're covering a small part, a small segment of the problem when we're talking about a moratorium on loans, that we haven't fully worked it out and worked it out, let's just say that the government is going to cover that part in its future action, and it's going to work it out together. But he didn't tell his colleague Shuker that our proposals, for example, were not working. He didn't say, because he knows that he's part part of it, part of it's good. I listened well, I heard it all right. Well, what's the problem, you know what my colleague Shucker is? We are proposing these packages because the ruling HDZ has not included the opposition since the first day of the conversation. You didn't turn it on. You can nod all you want. You're not. You are sitting alone with yourself and this second package of government measures that was now, which was delayed in part you presented to your coalition partners, and you did not find it appropriate to invite opposition representatives to this conversation, you did not. Because you don't need us, because you don't care what we have to say, and that shows this hall here today. Empty, just you fellow Shucker, here you are, and colleague Pernar. And my colleague Pernar. ... So when I don't have anyone, how am I supposed to, what am I gonna mention about Sanader when he's not here? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What am I going to say? Who? I mean, what am I going to say, here, a colleague I don't know, who? Who? You tell me, fellow Shuker, when you're alone. There's no one here. Nobody cares. The SDP is a colleague here, is, is, we've had enough. So, look, we suggest, you don't listen, you don't care. Another thing again, so it's not the devil that none of our proposals are right. We are in this package of measures, I am now not going to enter into each individual, but colleagues Bernardic and Lalovac said in the introduction, this is the third package that includes citizens, citizens who are also the most socially endangered of whom the government has not considered at the moment. I'm not saying he won't think in his third package. But I don't understand why the opposition isn't involved. You say, "Here's a good suggestion, and you didn't even bother to fix it." So today we wouldn't be discussing this or counting here if Prime Minister Plenkovic's first day had called all the presidents of the opposition parliamentary parties and said, let's hear, let's all heads together, who has any suggestions. So maybe one part of our measures would be included already in the government's package and instead, and all the time you're talking here, make suggestions, thank you, but that's not enough. It's not good, but we're going alone. We only represent coalition partners. Gentlemen, this concerns the entire country, both left and right and all citizens, not just HDZ and its coalition partners. And for that, here we appeal to you, let us in, so we can't wait until you remember something, until you remember citizens with credits. Well, we had to propose a law. We don't have another model. Our representatives didn't sit with the government's representatives at the meeting so they could make some kind of suggestion there, so here you are, fellow Shuker, you complete it and you say, and you made a good proposal. Here, there's only the ones with the loans, there's no lying, there's no insurance houses, there's no such thing as that, so we could do a whole proposal together. And this is how we have to make suggestions when you don't listen to us, you don't want to hear us. You're saying it's not time for politicizing, and it's yesterday as a charger. Plenkovic, Sanader, Bozinovic, in his uniform on the fifth, 5th day in a row, calls counterpart Bernardic and SDP. That's, what's that? That's not politicizing? You've got suggestions, you've got suggestions, we'll respect everything, you don't respect anything today. You haven't accepted any of our amendments today. So what exactly are all our suggestions stupid? Well, I didn't realize it from your discussions that we're proposing nonsense or stupidity, but even praise it, but look, what, we're enough for ourselves. That's not good. We're not at war, but we're not in any ordinary condition. And not to mention, this session procedure, first in that building of INA over there, and today here and limiting replicas and speeches, I hope that from the 15th time we get back to our building things will go back to normal. I don't have any more time, but I expect we'll get back to normal and start listening to us as an opposition. Because, look, this situation will pass, I hope as soon as possible. Maybe in a month, maybe in two. Maybe in 3 and then they'll [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to file accounts. [[Intruder: Stay here.]] So it won't be binco Support, we can all the time... [[We have 3 replicas.]] Okay, thank you, here, just to finish the thought. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198859	Thank you. A colleague of Hajdukovic's. Here's the first replica, the second one's a colleague of Shucker's, then a colleague of Jagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198860	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djujic, you're talking about a call for community, this lack of respect for the opposition, so I'd just like to go over there and say that HDZ calls for consensus and for community only when it suits them. And you know how they experience that unity and consensus? "Here you can back us up." And we are not criticizing or criticizing, nor criticizing, but making concrete suggestions. Yeah, maybe some of our proposals aren't perfect, but that's why, in the debate, we should all come up with the best proposals to protect our citizens. And.../incomprehensible... when we do that to HDZ, they reject it. And therefore, I fear that these measures will eventually turn out to be flawed in a lot of things, that they will change many times, that they will contribute to the uncertainty of the labour market and the market in general in the economy and we will actually produce exactly the counterproductive effect of what we wanted, which is to protect citizens, workers, but also entrepreneurs and economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198861	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198862	Comrade Hajdukovic, of course, that all our measures are not perfect, such as the Government's all measures. But two heads are smarter than one, and that's what we've been trying to do all along to deal with this crisis, not to have the HDZ running its story. Well, look, they dropped the Parliament, that debate in the INA about that package last time was nothing, what pro-forma, out there at the President of the Parliament saying you have the right to 2 replicas per club. So they don't even want to listen to us. They won't listen to us today. So it's not going anywhere. So, we should, this is not a HDZ crisis and its coalition partners, but all of Croatia's citizens, and we must have the opportunity to talk together and all the best, every party, every political option that has in its ranks to make it easier for the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198863	Thank you. Next replica, fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198864	Thank you very much. Well, it's not good to say things that aren't right. I'll use the softest expression, if my colleague Bauk were here, he could confirm to you that the Prime Minister has summoned all these leaders and opposition parties and clubs and has exposed them to measures to discuss. So much for that, that's the facts. Secondly, I think my personal debate today was about discussing the subject. Third thing, colleague Djujic, we've known each other for a long time. I was expecting, since I'm the only MP from the opposition here, that you're going to try to put in some arguments to convince me that something is not contained in the existing laws, that I did something wrong. You've been talking all along about how someone like this, how you're somebody like that. Okay, that's what you said, that's what your colleagues will say, but explain why your laws are good, I even said that one law and missed a target because those funds can't pay off what they're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198865	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198866	And fellow Shuker, I expected you to convince us why our laws are not good and that the government did better than us and that we should give up. But on the contrary, you said that one segment did well in this moratorium law on loans, so what do I have to explain to you that this is a good move? Well, you know it better than I do, you said it yourself. In fact, you've spread the story that we haven't covered the Leasing Houses, that we haven't included insurance companies, so here's what we talked about before, we could have given one quality whole law together. And when you said we didn't sit down, that we didn't, that, uh, Comrade Bauk, here he came now, that the Prime Minister invited them to that first package of measures that the entrepreneurs and all welcomed to the knife together. This last vote we voted here today at noon you presented to coalition partners on Thursday and on Friday came to debate after a hasty procedure in HS, i.e. in the basement of the INA on 2 representatives per club. And we couldn't make a contribution, no one listened to us, no amendment was adopted, today Here, who's listening to us? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Who are we talking to?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198867	Thank you. Last replica, colleague Sagar Comrade Sagar, here you go. [[Intruder: My emotions are working.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198868	Dear colleague Djujic. So, you said it right. The situation is quite complex, and when you say that we're going back to normal, then you should keep in mind that this return will be extremely difficult. It is clear that there will be a danger to the health of citizens and that at that moment citizens will start living normally. But back to those positions that weren't good before this crisis, I'm talking about economic situations where citizens were and the economy is going to be difficult to achieve, let alone what we planned before this crisis in terms of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. So it's very important that the government listens to you now, that it really listens to all the good advice because at this point we're just responding to what's happening right now. We are not thinking about what will happen in the future, and in these measures there are many proposals that will affect the future, and so we need to think about what will be in the future because we already need to know what it is, what kind of rebalancing the government will have to propose soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198869	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198870	My debate was like this because five minutes is really little to explain and to explain each of these measures. I think some of them are making their own argument. But why was I talking about this debate? That's because I'm afraid, and I see it, that the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic don't care what we think or care about. There's one proof today. So today he's talking about this law on tracking. He talks, he says, well, you gave all the data to Facebook and Google, so why don't you give it to HDZ? Why don't you give us, too, even so they follow you, so let's follow you. And then the journalists tell them, but it wasn't adopted in the Parliament, today it's, it's a decision to go to another reading, then he says, and well, it's not today, it's going to be adopted next week. So here's how HDZ sees us as the most representative or legislative body in the country. And for that reason I appeal once again to HDZ and to the government, please include representatives of the opposition, listen to us, tell us, this is stupid, this is smart, but we are going together to look for solutions for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198871	Thank you. Next individual debate... The next individual debate is a debate by colleagues from Peja Grbina, here are some interventions. Here you go, buddy Grbin, here you go, thank you. Careful fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198872	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will concentrate on two things that matter to me personally, and I also believe that they are important to a large number of Croatian citizens, and one especially to people from the area I come from, from Istria and the entire Adriatic coast. The first thing is, of course, a moratorium on loans. Dear fellow Shuker, saying just before me, said the law proposed by the moratorium on loans was missing. My answer is, okay, but unlike the government's proposal, at least he exists. The government has not proposed such a missing proposal, the government has proposed nothing. The government has only left it to banks and bankers that, on the basis of their own decision, their own goodwill, their own profit assessment, solve the problem of postponing the loan with their debtors. And what does it look like in practice? A few people came to me, for example, one lady has a loan, she's been paying him off for a while, 3,000 kuna, exactly 2700 kn per month. She will have to pay 6,000 kuna additional interest for the six-month delay, 6,000 kuna. 1,000 kunas have calculated the monthly bank's interest. A gentleman contacted me last year who took a loan, also at war about 3,000 kuna per month, but because he took the loan last year at this point mostly pays interest, and the principal will come in line for some better days. He will postpone by 18,000 kuna for the six months he would have paid during that period of 6 months, so to get a delay in the payment of 18,000 kuna which he will definitely have to pay, to him, the interest for those 6 months exceeds the amount of 12,000 kuna. 12,000 kuna additional interest will be paid to the bank on his loan. And you know what the worst part of it still has to be solemnized by the credit contract annex, and as an amount of course, it will account for the full amount of credit, which means that it will still have 1,500 – 2,000 kuna. So he's going to be spending six months on 15 thousand kunas. For a delay in payment of 18,000 kuna, they will pay 15,000 kuna. With all due respect, it's neither moral nor fair, nor useful. The delay, without the simultaneous delay of payment of interest or the release of interest payments, is not intended. It is only temporary assistance to citizens and citizens who will pay you the same citizens and citizens extremely expensive one day when they start returning credit. And what else is going to happen? Given the duration of only 6 months, and it is evident that many will not return to the position of paying off the loan even longer after that since it only lasts 6 months it does not achieve real effects. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, if you want to help Croatian citizens and citizens, Croatian society and the Croatian economy you do not have to accept the SDP proposal, I support what my colleague Schuker said, make it comprehensive, refer it to the procedure, I will first, I will raise my hand to him first, but you must, you must suspend the course of interest during the delay, otherwise there is no purpose. The other problem I want to talk about is the renter's problem. Household owners do not pay income tax according to actual income, but pay it according to the flat-rate rate determined according to the number of bearings in the frameworks of the prescribed law. Last year we raised the amount of sheets, we made it possible for local self-government units to go up to 1,500 kuna instead of a maximum of 300 kuna earlier, I'm talking about income tax rate, to make it quite clear. So we increased the amount multiplely and it was introduced to pay for additional beds, which was not previously the case. At present, as far as I'm aware, most or almost all of the shoppers have been delayed. However, it is quite clear, it is clear that income from the tourist season in these three months, so 4, 5 and 6, and probably not even afterwards. The delay is fine for now, but please, before the period on which the delay is given, bring a measure of the write-off of the flat-rate income tax from the tenant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198873	Thank you. Stay here please, you have one replica. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198874	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, I had to intervene because my colleague Peja is a lawyer, and I wouldn't want to give him a lecture, but when you have a loan, then you get a payment plan. In the payment plan you have a monthly war that contains war and contains interest and a bank if you do not need to pay the principal, but you have to pay the corresponding part of the interest and that is what we all need to talk about why I said it wasn't just loans to Croatian citizens and businessmen that it has full, but such a figure when you bring it out it's totally incorrect because you're not talking about the same thing, it's not interest on funds that haven't been paid for 3 months. I repeat, when you raise a loan, when you enter a Leasing relationship or anything else you get a payment plan and it is clearly based on the law you know what it contains. So this information of yours is not correct, you got it wrong, and you unfortunately misread it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198875	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My esteemed colleague Shuker didn't get it from me, it was obtained by citizens from banks asking for a postponement of the loan. It was given to the citizens of the banks, the citizens got this bill, and the banks want to charge them for it. And by the way, I know very well that there's interest on the capital. If the loan payment started last year, then you and I know very well that the principal remained intact. And that six months of paying interest on that principal will be very difficult for whoever's taking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198877	Stay still here was still a replica of a fellow Laloveca.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198878	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms I see you mentioned the tenants, but certainly what should be noted is that the government has unfortunately not thought about those who are in the lease of business premises, which are now closed business spaces and when there is no, means the contract between the tenant and the tenant is now zero kuna. However, there is no clear answer from the tax administration or the Government whether they will be charged at market value for this lease, so all these people who rent business premises will receive a fee for either VAT or income tax. So here you're talking about one category, but I think this category, too, means that they're renting business premises so that in 3 or 6 months, VAT or income taxes don't come out, especially when the market doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198879	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague, but first of all, he would direct his own representatives to the government. Last week I spoke about the problem of renting a business space and there are two problems. The first is the one you addressed, which is the fact that many tenants have freed their tenants from the rent because they are aware that they need good, good people. At the same time, however, regardless of the amount not paid by the lease, the tax administration accounts for the value added tax, but also the income tax or profit tax, and that by assessment. It's not right, and I think the ministry should address it in the relevant tax laws. However, there is another problem, and I ask you to transfer this to the Minister of State Property, which is the problem that there is no possibility in the Law on the Hire of Business Space that there is no possibility that, any state, any local self-government of freedom of the tenants from the obligation to pay or to reduce that obligation. So... We have to change that law, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198881	Thank you. Comrade Matteljan, here you go, no need for intervention, colleague Grbin didn't touch the work space, but fine, if you want then... Well, fellow Mattelian, Mathelan. Damir Mateljan, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Secretary of State. The SDP shows itself in this crisis situation, acts as a responsible and serious party. On the one hand, this is affirmative, so we have accepted in two rounds a package of measures that the Government has sent to debate in this House, which concerns helping those who are at risk of spreading the COVID-19 virus. On the other hand, we're bringing, we're proposing our own measures that unfortunately come across something like this. So, uh, the government's self-interest, the self-interest of ruling MPs actually tells us what the government thinks about these measures, or what they think about the SDP and what they feel unfortunately about the opposition. The government when it also adopted that first set of measures, including the law that we had not debated, is the Civil Protection Act, saying, so on these measures, the Government has also urged the local state to also plant its financial backs and that it is also the local state that will adapt some of its measures to help all those, whether they are citizens or those companies that have died in this crisis. The local state has also done so in a way that it could, freeing the municipal fee, the communal contribution itself, paying the market price of kindergarten so that they can survive, however, what the government did not say, what is in some way not being said, and in this House I have not heard, let alone in the media, and that is that it is, in fact, with those first and other measures that the local state has just planted its back for reasons, because that financial burden on those measures that go as free entrepreneurs is just directed at the only tax, on the only real tax which is exclusively a tax belonging to local self-government, which is income tax. Without income tax, which accounts for almost 70% of all original incomes from local self-government, local self-government can survive this month to two days. Those who are with... Which so far seemed to us to be highly developed areas, won't last a month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is very important to tell people that this one will not have preschool education, that their infrastructure local will be able to disintegrate, that there will be no public lighting, that there will be no public transport, or people need to tell, that these measures will partially save the economy and that they will completely destroy the level of local self-government that we have achieved so far. It will simply be so if we don't come up with compensatory measures that no one talks about, and I understand why no one talks about compensatory measures because there is no money for compensation measures. So when we talk about planting the backs of local self-government, then there are things that don't have just financial weight, but also that organisational weight. The famous name around the pass. Finally, the public and the government have realized that there are over 300 units of local self-government that are simply not functionally whole and cannot function in a way that in that unit local self-government citizens can achieve both rights and all their therefore things they must do, such as, the most banal going to the bank, to the post office, to the pharmacy because you have municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have no banks, no post office, no pharmacy, no elementary school or anything else. And this depends not only on their size or their critical mass, but on their capacitation, both to people and to their financial capacitation. I don't know how much time I have left, so I'm going to figure it out. So usually after all these crises we like to go out with that sentence that's total flossula, which is, we're going to come out of this crisis even stronger and stronger. [[/Intruder: 15.]] We won't. So we'll get out of this crisis weaker and worse. But I hope at least So wiser that what concerns [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The local self-government will go into this reform of the local self-government reform. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198883	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Gordan Maras, colleague Maras, come in. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. I must admit that, I have, I feel strange in this hall and all this together when a man looks at you a little bit sorry and people who work here in the organization and people from HRT because you have a feeling that this is being done as a tower at the moment of the whole situation, or the system of decision-making in the Republic of Croatia, where we, as the Croatian Parliament, are moving from the hall to the hall from Šubićeva to INU, might now be able to go to another hall, in another town, I think that the institution as a Croatian Parliament must participate more and decide in the whole crisis that is happening in the Republic. So, if as a state we do not respect our institutions, if we have a meeting president who here says that the Rules of Procedure are 100% non-respectable, I think it is one of the most recent statements I have heard in the Croatian Parliament or on the other hand says about 129 votes, it sends you a message in fact that the Croatian Parliament as an institution at the moment seems to bother the HDZ, which is also seen from the overall behaviour, work, and at the end of the day and the situation which is now the government in this Chamber, where there is usually no one else. And on the other hand, discussing such important issues in these circumstances sounds pointless, because you see that you're proposing things, very serious things. Because when you propose that citizens do not pay for a year, they have a moratorium on loans it is a very serious thing for Croatian citizens, perhaps of crucial importance to survive the next year, which will be marked by crisis, loss of work, loss of income from tourism and all that is, then I think that such a topic is shown respect for both Croatian citizens and parliament to discuss under normal conditions in front of parliamentary representatives that this topic is accepted with respect and that we eventually come together to a certain solution. Because if the opposition supports the government's measures, so what is not logical is that instead of Vice-President Sanader giving lessons to opposition deputies he takes into account what the opposition is proposing. And the other thing when we suggest also one measure, means that when it comes to parents who at the moment have a problem with organising their lives in general how to educate children, how to stay at home, how to go to work, how to combine it all together, you can't use it in the most part of the grandparents' cases because if parents do, they're exposed, so they can pass on to their children, and then their parents can't look after their children because they can get infected too, so they're huge problems. And if, at that point, we suggest that we take a model by which one parent can stay at home and pay for sick leave, as the Health Insurance Act covers some other examples, so that's a very important topic. It deserves to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, it deserves to be heard, it deserves to be considered and perhaps accepted. We can't accept the situation where the secretary of state comes and says he's not authorized to talk about it here because like he's not the finance minister or not the prime minister, they're the only ones who can. Well, we don't live in a monarchy, where one person decides what can be done, what can't be done. Although it looks like some of them are just fine with you. We live in a parliamentary democracy where parliament plays its part and I am dissatisfied with how it all works now, and I must admit that I will talk about it in the future and when we return to the Hall of the Croatian Parliament and appeal here and to the people sitting in the presidency of the assembly, and I will certainly speak to the representative of our club to simply not allow such a situation. So we live in parliamentary democracy, we're responsible people, we can contribute to this situation as painlessly as possible for our fellow citizens. We don't agree with the statements he made before Mr. Pernar I think that this time we're fighting a crisis is good, that we're all satisfied that we have very few infected and deceased in relation to other countries and we support it and we will continue to support it if it works in a quality way and on the other hand if we can participate We want to participate, we want to enable solutions that will help Croatian citizens to get through this crisis as well as we can and the more painlessly we can not do anything to get Croatian citizens to live normally as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198885	Stay here, please. We have two replicas. He's my first colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198886	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I also think that measures and what the government is doing at this point are good and that it gives good results, and we, with our SDP, as a constructive opposition with our proposals just want it to be better, especially with this third package of measures. We are thinking about the time that comes after this health crisis, meaning in a few months, because we, with our package of measures, have included exactly those citizens that the Government has not included in its activities so far. And that's why I think we should maybe listen a little bit more. And as for the functioning and work of the assembly, I agree with you and I will talk about it all the time and keep warning about it and I want once again here to underline the line that these 15 days, 20 as far as we're not in the building of the Croatian Parliament, but in the basement of the INE there are no days we joined in the order that we have the same rules. So, not to disrespect the Rules of Procedure, but there are no agreements, because today it's worth one thing, tomorrow it's worth something else, then the day after tomorrow it's worth the third, then one chairman respects one rule, the other, and that's not good. We have a Rules of Procedure which is a sacred letter to us in all situations, if anything needs to be changed, then we need to change the Rules of Procedure and we all need to adapt to that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198887	Okay, thank you, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198888	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. I think that if we function as a rule or not, by 100% of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djujic has taken 1% of the time limit on the replica, so anyone can choose for themselves if the rules don't apply to everyone. And on this side, I ask you to pass it on to the President of the Croatian Parliament that we want to function normally and that all of this together is quite nothing and that in some way Croatian citizens deserve to do it in some normal conditions, to transfer their problems, to try to solve their problems and to contribute together to this crisis as soon as possible and to allow Croatian citizens to have confidence in the institutions that represent them. The message that none sits here except Mr. Shucker of HDZ MPs is a message that automatically denys the call on joint action by HDZ [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely visible from what's going on here. [[Intruder: Next replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.]] So... HDZ with a figure in its pocket calls all opposition parties... [[/Intruder: Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198889	Comrade Maras, please. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198890	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I absolutely agree with you in your qualifications that parliament should behave in crisis situations. For example, the Hungarians had a very good solution before this happened, namely that Orban received such broad powers. According to their Constitution, in the event of an emergency, parliament is constantly sitting, no one can disband it and every 15 days the government should submit a report to Parliament which, on the basis of this report, then extends or reduces, or extends the state of emergency. The role of Parliament here should be crucial precisely because of what we talked about. Some measures are imperfect and just in the discussion with more ideas and from multiple sides and more angles, we can come up with quality solutions. One of these is the staying of one parent at home and because of small children and because of the risk of transmission of infections, so we also protect the health of the population, protect jobs because the state jumps in where it can and we try to help as much as possible. Our citizens to adapt to the new creation [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a situation. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Hajdukovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198891	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198892	Thank you. I absolutely agree with you, and I think that in this situation the most we could do is help us, given that hundreds of citizens who share their problems with us every day are talking to us. But I ask you, if we are calling for joint action and unity, where is Jandrokovic now? Where's Branko Bacic? Where are all these HDZ people who need to discuss with us the proposals that help Croatian citizens? Di, where's Ante Sanader who called the opposition SDP yesterday if he hadn't suggested anything constructive? Where are these people, why aren't they taking part here with us in this debate? Why don't they say if our proposal is good or bad? Can it or cannot it be applied? Which is why it does not allow Croatian citizens to go peacefully to Easter and not think about paying off their loans and not leave them at the mercy of their banks. Believe me, if we don't set the rules the way To be for all [[Intruder: Time.]] identically, that people know transparently what their right is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Which is what it isn't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Banks will do so in his arrangement. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] I think that It's not correct and yes [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] We should put it that way. [[Intruder: Comrade Hajdukovic, please prepare for discussion.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198893	Thank you. Please, intervention, colleague Hajdukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Here you are Mr. Hajdukovic, please, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. Here you are, colleague Hajdukovic.]] Well, unfortunately, this crisis has shown how unprepared we are for these situations in every sense. In economics, I would dare say politically, which, we are witnessing right now, organisational, logistics, social, etc., etc. Let's just take the farm. This crisis has shown our agricultural production on its knees, which is simply a victim of many years of bad policy, poor direction, non-strategic thinking. That's right, so unfortunately we're victims and in a political sense because we don't have enough culture politically to listen to everything, all the suggestions, all the problems on the table and try to deal with these problems together. I fear that HDZ's unity is only, that is, their calls for unity are only when it suits them and that their perception of community and consensus is based on "that is what you can support us, we allow you to support us". But it's not the point, it's not the purpose of parliamentary democracy. Just because there are more of us from different parts of Croatia, from different segments of life in Croatia, we can give better suggestions, we can warn of some of the problems that perhaps the Government or we as legislators have initially missed and may warn of some things that may later have serious repercusions. One of them is definitely paying off citizens' loans. Why? Many were financially planning differently, things that are unfortunately very difficult, since this epidemic, I read in one medium that about a thousand people get fired daily. If that's true, it's a terrible piece of information. In the meantime, there was also an earthquake in Zagreb, so many families in Zagreb are exposed to an additional unplanned cost of housing adaptation, if they were lucky that their apartments were still useful. For all these people, the postponement of payments, or the moratorium on the payment of loans per year, will mean little space for, to catch air, to be financially consolidated and to continue to pay their commitments. Without that beginning, I'm afraid it'll be very difficult for them, that many won't be able to repay their debts, many will lose their jobs in the meantime, we don't know how further the pandemic situation will move, as far as the economy is concerned, so we're trying to solve this equation with all the unknowns so that at least one acquaintance can be introduced into it. Also, no one has mentioned seasonal employees except for our measures so far, the 3rd package of measures. Or permanent, so-called. Permanent season. There are slightly less than 6 thousand in Croatia. These are people who, during the season, make about 6 to 7 months enough to survive the whole year and thus service their debts and all the other financial obligations they have. Since nothing's happened since the season, we need to think about protecting these exactly, slightly less than 6,000 people. If we're counting on it to be 6,000 families, then you can imagine how much repercussion could be if we don't adequately protect them. Also, people who have been fired as a consequence of the crown will be a major problem or we need to help them and take care of them, help them to stop their feet and serve them in their short - term financial obligations if God gives them no credit. Also, no one mentions employees who are at the Bureau who have no compensation. What's the number of people like that? So they have no right to any compensation for various reasons, which now because of a crisis that will become and grow into an economic crisis have no right and have no perspective of finding a job soon. It's the same segment of people we have to worry about and who we have to help. Therefore, as I have said, our measures may not be perfect, neither are the government's measures, but I believe that with one different approach, in a broader dialogue and in a dialogue with more respect, above all, from the ruling to the opposition, there would be much more quality proposals. Because I am afraid that these government proposals will need to be corrected more than once, that they will be subject to quite frequent changes and that this will create additional uncertainty among citizens but also in the economy because of the constant changes in market conditions, whether labour, whether the economy, or markets in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198895	Please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198896	My colleague Hajdukovic and I, with this proposal, are essentially concerned about citizens who have not yet felt this crisis. So, you said yourself when this health problem goes down for, we hope as soon as possible that a part of the people except for those who are unemployed and who live on the edge of poverty and those who stood up to yesterday will feel this crisis very well. And now let's say I set an example, today at the 2nd month of this year the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was about 6,500 kuna, I'm going to stick to those figures. So someone who had 6,500 kuna before this pandemic, took out a loan, planned his own life, got hit by this situation, and, say, most employers put these workers on a minimum or these 4,000 kuna due to government measures. So these workers lost 2,000, 2,500 kuna, and they'll only feel that later. This moratorium on loans means a lot to them, and it makes the situation much easier because other than preserving jobs, we encourage and spending citizens right now. in this way that these funds can be spent. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198897	Thank you, colleague Giujic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198898	I agree, fellow Djujic, that the crisis will end today, the consequences will be great and long-term. So we can't predict how many more people will lose their jobs, unfortunately, how much pay cuts, purchasing power, if it comes to question and swearing courses, it's also going to be a big problem. So there's a lot of problems waiting for us. But the same thing that's important for us to point out when we talk about our moratorium law, I think it's that those who have a good financial situation don't have to use this law. So those who have regular incomes, which will continue to have regular incomes, can choose to continue to service their debts to banks. That way, they won't be cut off as far as the payment plan or the end of their commitment to the bank is concerned, as they planned, but unfortunately I'm afraid they'll be in your minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198899	Thank you. I would like a little intervention and an individual debate from colleague Karolina Leaković. Here you go. Last reported debate, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198900	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, if we are in a crisis without precedent, and we are in the midst of the worst yet to come, and then, at least economically, then from the government and the political and economic elite as residents, it is certain that we have the right to expect solutions that will benefit the largest number of people. And these people who live on their work, not on capital, not on rent, not on inheritance, not on the accumulated, but on people, and these are the ones that live in Croatia the most, in fact, on their fair salary regardless of whether it is earned in trade, in the food industry, in transport, in services, in schools, in the hospital or in the office. If we work indefinitely on a particular one, then our contracts are extended every, every few months, maybe not always in accordance with the law, and we know that there are such situations too. He knew that the government declaredly insists on community, it's not a new word discovered, but it seems to me that for this government, a new word has been discovered, or one that is very often in the use of last weeks of solidarity. We're saying that the health crisis, or the government, is saying that we need to overcome the health crisis with common forces, appeal to the responsibility of each and every one of us, and I can certainly agree with that and I can support it. Of course, if we are not deprived of human rights in this government’s once unnecessarily restrictive decisions and, of course, if we are not deliberately deceived and tried to hide some information. We know that we have recently had such a case with the purchase of medical equipment, and we have had one case with a secret meeting in the government between the prime minister, the culture minister and the editor-in-chief of several media houses on which, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not want to present details and did not answer any questions about the meeting. The public and journalists must never, nor in this situation, remain deprived of the answers to questions about how decisions are made, why the main editors of some media houses were invited to a meeting in the government and what they were promised, to report on government measures that they would receive in return. So, unlike this solidarity when it comes to the health crisis and the epidemiological measures, when it comes to economics, I think it's hard to agree that we're all on the same boat, that it's the same for all of us, that the crisis on all of us is the same, that we all have to tighten the belt, that either we're all gonna challenge and save private entrepreneurs and their property, or we're all going to fail, and that it's not the time to question each other, and it's especially not the time to insist on working rights, on collective contracts, on collective agreements, on coefficients, says cut yourself immediately and now without any renunciation, etc., in other words socialize or share private losses, and we don't touch private profits. It has already been said today on several occasions that we have not seen how the banks have reacted in this crisis whether they have submitted part of the burden. They did not bear part of the burden, however, we saw that the owners of private companies better sent their workers and most of their workers to the stock market immediately, although perhaps they should not have done so. If we ever find out, so what is the number of those who immediately sent workers to the stock market and before measures, we will, of course, ask the Ministry of Labour and HZZ. We know there's no write-off for citizens, no lifting unnecessary banking obligations, no abandonment of performances, no appraisals. We still haven't actually made a decision about parents who care for children who don't go to school and kindergarten to determine what SDP is looking for today. We also did not make a decision that even now unemployed who have worked less than 9 months in the past 24 months have the right to compensation, this should certainly be taken into account. And there are a lot of problems that people warn us about, so I will take advantage of the opportunity with us of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health to warn him of a letter of 17 March which she sent to the Ministry, directed the Croatian Association for Rare Diseases, which warns of a special situation involving employees who are at the same time patients with autoimmune diseases, parents of chronically ill children who raise their voices and warn that they have to work, and they are very exposed to the group, so I call on the ministry to take care of their health. Ideas for the State to be a cornerstone of economic policy, economic activity to use this crisis to change the dominant political economic paradigm, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, we have yet to hear and I appeal in this regard. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198901	Thank you. And my last debate with my colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198902	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last few weeks a paradigm of relations with state institutions has changed. The rule so far is to say so to the public or most citizens in some vague situation between institutions and individuals as a rule stood aside from individuals. And lately, in this vague situation between individuals and institutions, they tend to side with the institution especially if it's the police about healthcare professionals or about someone from these now we call it the more popular service represented by the state. It is good when institutions gain greater trust from citizens, but it is never good to give non-critical trust to anyone, to either individual or to institutions. Therefore, they should always be questioned and treated critically. One of the equative examples was the police's conduct in the case of two citizens in Split who wanted to take a walk, and then there was, I would say training, unnecessary training of strictness against individuals, and there was a journalist there and it became generally known. We have then a reverse case, so in front of a church also in Split police showed much more tolerance, patience towards a priest who invited people to mass, and when the officers came to warn them that it was a violation of the headquarters's recommendations then he fell into an argument with a policeman that a police officer had finally had to interpret something from a religion, it was perhaps excessive tolerance, but somewhere between this situation the increased power of the institution I would say in relation to the rights of the individual should find a good balance. This is why it is good for us to talk about this in the Croatian Parliament live at the thematic session of the Committee on Human Rights. So, on one portal came an article about what all citizens ask the attorney general, I wouldn't say that it was an explanation of litigation with state institutions, it was really about certain individual problems of life that people came across because of this epidemic and the rapid ones, but when the measures were faster then they weren't enough, there wasn't enough thought about possible side effects that I believe had time to think about them further to be avoided. What do all the citizens actually write to the D.A.? So most often it's about people who got fired, and for various reasons they can't exercise their rights as unemployed people. Then it is about students who, because of their inability to work during the epidemic, cannot be supported and asked the competent authorities to assist students in the form of a delay in the payment of tuition. Afterwards, citizens have problems communicating with HZZ, and related to the exercise of the right for the unemployed. Most often they fail to obtain feedback on who is processing or their demands and fail to exercise rights. They are particularly numerous citizens who have jobs but who fail to work because of their obligations to young children in circumstances where kindergartens and schools are closed, then they do not know how to take care of children when they have to work again because of the end of their vacation and sick leave, then they state that despite their open-label care, employers call them to return to work, then others report that the employer determines 7-day work without rest despite the care of underage children, and then ask that the employer asks them to work even though he has not provided them with protections such as masks and gloves, then the worker reported whose employer requests to come to work personally even though he does not live in a city where he works and depends on public transportation and can't de facto come. The employers are also reporting. And that's to say, someone hired two seasons, but now he doesn't know what to do with them and their compensation, and in the end we have cases because of these passes, so he can't worry, come to visit a child living in another municipality, and he doesn't get a pass. Retired people who can't go to a bank, to a pharmacy, etc., or to a post office to raise a pension because they don't have a post office. And all these problems, I'm here, as long as I have time to count, require reaction, require reaction. an institution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198903	First, it's Mrs. Crescent. Buric, she can have an intervention at any moment, please, then colleague Schuker. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198904	Thank you. Thank you so much, Vice President HS. So, very briefly. We are here today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 5 state secretaries from 5 different ministries, now the two of us have delivered an oral opinion on the SDP package and by the fact that we were 5 out of 5 different ministries, I think it's a very clear message of respect for the promoter and I'm not saying it at all that I would be pathetic but very honest and open. Health is not everything, however, all without health is absolutely nothing and it is a saying that is more than ever proved true today. What I am also glad is that today most are in a direct or indirect way, regardless of what political groups came from, that parliamentary representatives and MPs have said that this double crisis that we are facing is strategically well-led and that we have good governance. Moreover, this is what we are talking about today, which is a package of measures, which, which is unlegislative, this government, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, has provided only so far 65 billion kuna and what I must mention, is that it is neither the first nor the last package of measures. You know that yourself. - Mrs. Crescent. Leakovic asked a question about people who had lost their jobs in this crisis, and that is why we are talking about the number of about 13,000 people, newly unemployed, which is why the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, or the executive body of the Croatian Employment Service yesterday, included in the criteria for obtaining support for the preservation of jobs, the possibility that employers who report to this support should these people return to work, that they can get that support for them too, so we are talking about support from 4 thousand kuna. There he is. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198905	Stay, you have one more replica, please. Thank you very much. [[- Yeah, good.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk. [[Intruder: Please.]] Thank you. So then, no, no, wait, wait, there's another line, don't leave yet, there's a colleague named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198906	Thank you. State Secretary. It's a good-looking jump, "Health isn't everything, but without health, we're nothing." Did I quote correctly? [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] The saying, it's more to me, it's to be honest, it's more to me to jump. [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] But health protection can't be a front for anything to be done. You can't do everything. So, you need to balance between health, among other segments of life, and you know what our Constitution says, what's everything? Thus, even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the state, the right to life, to ban torture, cruel and humiliating treatment and punishment, thoughts, freedom of mind, conscience, and religion cannot be limited. That's all. So, I agree on the importance of what you've said, but I'm not in favour of such rhetoric justifying possible restrictions on everything and everything for health, but I like the saying, now it's not, it's good, but it's not good for political game. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198907	Here, answer, secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198908	Thank you, Honorable Representative Bauk. So I repeat again. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to preserve health, protect health, on the other hand, preserve jobs, stand behind all Croatian entrepreneurs and workers and try and help and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198909	Thank you, too. Now my colleague Schuker is on behalf of the MPs' club final. I'm just asking for my colleagues' intervention. Thank you. How? I don't doubt you, just what I'm stressing. Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198910	Thank you very much. Well, I answered about three things. The first was once in the Croatian Parliament to have mutual respect among MPs and respect for what the MPs wanted to say. Unfortunately, however, those who spoke most today about how there are no MPs in the Assembly, now there are none in the assembly. There are four of us left. The other thing I wanted to say, I'm honest, but really this is what I tell you out of the soul, after all, and my debate was like this, I expected that colleagues from the SDP who have been reported for discussion each by one or two laws will try to explain the legal proposals to us, and with this, a couple of colleagues who have mentioned certain things, we haven't heard anything. We heard attacks on the government. This is what the Government likes, so eventually on the President of the Parliament, on this, on that, etc., I think today was a debate to fight, not to conflict, to oppose opinions and to think about how to solve this crisis. And lastly, yesterday, I just got this information, the EU Commission confirmed HBOR's portfolio loan scheme for liquidity, so much so that I'm going to mention again and apostrophe my colleague Lalovec, the two of us, no matter what we're from different clubs, are saying that at this point we need to secure funds from all possible sources, and this is just another confirmation that the government is working on all fronts. Some things can be spoken publicly, and some things can be spoken of only when they happen. It is a good thing that anyone who has any knowledge of professional everyday life as a proposal in the Croatian Parliament, but look at colleagues and colleagues, maximum respect and according to this institution was that the colleagues from the club who proposed this legislative proposal would be more present in this debate, it would simply point to the seriousness of this proposal, this is not reading any lesson, but when you give the political rival a chance for creamworth then it would be a shame not to take advantage of it. And how seriously you think about these suggestions of yours is best shown by those who spoke of them, I say honor with exceptions, and these exceptions remain now and in the assembly, the best shows how many people are left in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198911	Thank you, too. My colleague Bauk, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is final, and I apologize on behalf of the Proposer, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Proposer 10, 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198912	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Shuker, Honored Representative Hajdukovic, Honored representative Leakovic, the esteemed vice president, then what you should welcome yourself to, I thank you. So, first of all, the SDP Club didn't choose the time of the debate, we got it this afternoon, we could discuss it tomorrow morning, it might end something more, it might be a little more media attention, but the debate is in line with 90% of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, these 10% of what the president of the day said to adapt it to the situation. We think it was our responsibility to propose a package of measures to help citizens in the first place because some of these proposals can happen in a very similar way from the government in the next month, it can happen. Well, then we'll have what you just said about creamworth, and we'll be able to say we told you or we suggested. And I don't see that that's some big problem, it's a political competition in these circumstances of the epidemic. So when a normal boxing situation without gloves is put on a little thicker gloves and watch every word, and sometimes some of our colleagues still fail to resist calling to cross that fine line between this constructive community that we witness and regular situations. So I would, however, be encouraged by criticism from fellow Shucker once again, briefly said what our proposals were, so 10 measures to help citizens affected by the pandemic. First fee of at least 4,000 kuna per month in the next 3 months for unemployed people who were fired. Then a fee of half a minimum salary per month or 1,625 kuna for the unemployed on the stock market and do not receive any compensation. Permanent seasons fee at a minimum salary of 3,250 kuna per month, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for social assistance users, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for pensioners with small pensions as well as for all persons below the income censorship, a cancellation of the RTV subscription for pensioners with small pensions and social assistance users. Subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna per month for renting the apartment for all of the most affected groups. Terminate the execution and increase the amount of wages exempt from the performance, issue of bank cards for blocked citizens for the on-line transaction, abolishing charges on-line transaction as in crisis conditions no physical contact. I don't think I've even listed all these suggestions. I believe that we will also get a written statement from the government before voting on our proposals, so that, since they have been proposed last week, and I can know the work and functioning of the government agree that maybe there was not enough time to get the government's written statement, but until the vote, since we now have a week's break, we can really get the government's written statement on our bill proposals, too, so that the foundation of them and the foundation of the government's work in the future would allow us to see how much these arguments have been justified, and how much they were merely the fruit of us proposing something without the government's proposal. It's the same thing in political life that's possible. I also believe that the assembly will find time to discuss perhaps in a united debate, such as today, proposals from other promoters, not only the SDP Club, but also other proposings, and that we will have to decide whether we are still in this situation in the constructive community as it is said, but it is not a good way not to accept any proposal, or any amendment of the opposition. Then indeed, as counterpart Maras said, we may be serving as a tower, and at the same time the bodies that make decisions are especially spared, excluded from criticism, the Maltas do not welcome any criticism against them on the knife as if they were protected from criticism or as if I were going to say it without a problem, holy cows, so there are no sacred cows in democracy. But what matters is that their decisions should be implemented and respected, but it is allowed and desirable if they are not good critics because they have also created certain problems for citizens who may still be less than the problems that have been spared by the citizens, for example, I think most of all about preventing the spread of the infection. I thank again everyone who participated, thank the state secretaries from all five ministries, especially my colleague Buric and colleagues from the health ministry who was Plazonic, where he was a representative in the previous assembly of the parliament, but I was afraid not to make a mistake, who remained until the end and representatives, especially colleagues Suker who stayed until the end. I hope that, on our return to the Croatian Parliament, we will continue with the normal dynamics of the debate, that the Parliament will remain a place of control of the government and to prevent the arbitrary conduct of a body that is not good when they have no control and that I believe that other colleagues, whether they are from a position or opposition, will contribute. So, I think that in Croatia, we have long fought for democracy so that only so democratic institutions would now deprive their constitutional powers. Some laws could be passed today by agreement and by a two-thirds majority, but the Constitutional Court will then discuss it well, and for everything else we see next week in the new debate, in the new confrontations of opinions, I believe in new constructive decisions that citizens will be able to cope with this crisis as easily as possible. It will be easy if this lasts for two months, but if it lasts longer then the end of the epidemic will sooner be declared by the Minister of Finance than the Minister of Health because suddenly our alternative will die from hunger or from the crown of the virus becoming a general alternative. Therefore, we can endure for some time, but we also need to think about the scenarios of how to live in co-existence with the coronary virus with the least consequences for society, for citizens, for the economy and for the way we're used to living until the middle of the 3rd month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198913	Thank you. That concludes the debate on a set of ten laws, we'll vote on them when the conditions are met. Another information for counterpart Leaković, a colleague of Hajdukovic, a colleague of Shuker and a colleague of Bauk, the work of the Parliament continues on Wednesday 15th April at 9.30 p.m. on Mark's square with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Coastal Research Security, Carbon Exploitation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 821. Thank you very much and the secretary of state for being here. I wish everyone a happy Easter. Goodbye. SESSION DISCONTINUED
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198914	Proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the maximum monthly amount of salary compensation on the burden of HZZO-insulated or self-insulated employees due to the COVID-19 epidemic. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the proposal of that conclusion, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the proposal has not received the required number of votes, the law has not been passed, 35 has been for, 2 abstentions and 74 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198915	Let's move on to the agenda. We have already agreed to conduct a joint discussion on the set of 6 laws proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club and one joint SDP representative's club and representative Goran Aleksic's team, and on three proposals for a conclusion submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, these are: - Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the Law on Contribution, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal for the Act on the Law on Obligors, First and Second Amendments, - Final Proposal for the Law on the Complementary of the Law on the Morals, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal of the Law on Obligations, the Emergency Act on the Taxes, the Second Amendments of the Act, the Second Amendments, the Second Amendment of the Act, the Act on the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Protection of the Act, the Law on the Act, the Second Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Rec, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Protection of the Law on the First, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the First, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law on the Law of the First, the First, the Law on the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the First, the Law on the Law on the Law, the Law of the Law, the Law, the Law, the Law of the First Act, the Law, on the Law on the Law of the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law, the Law, the First Act, the Law, the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on the Working of the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice. The government didn't deliver an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198916	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning, we warned a month and a half ago about the effects of the crisis caused by the coronary virus. Three weeks ago, we went out with our first package with more than 15 measures to help citizens and preserve jobs. Our measures were not then adopted by the government. Since the first government measures that followed only by our measures were too focused on prolongation, on delays, and they were not enough help for entrepreneurs, nor their employees, and time was leaking, the SDP sent our second package of more than 10 laws to save the economy and jobs, which we are unfortunately considering today. The second package comes today after voting on the government's package, shows in fact only demeaning and opposition, but also citizens, especially those citizens who have lost their jobs in the last two weeks due to late government reactions, over 20,000 of them as well as those citizens who at this point fear losing their jobs. Further demeaning comes precisely because the government was not even ready to manifest itself on this proposal. This only shows the relationship that currently exists in Croatia with all those who are trying to constructively help their proposals the poorest, most endangered, unemployed and other most vulnerable groups of citizens who are going through a severe crisis in Croatia thanks to the coronary virus. It is precisely because of a late reaction from the Government that the SDP proposed in the second package a write-off, not just a postponement of taxes and contributions, and we have suggested that we exempt the payment of profit tax for all entrepreneurs because this is not a time in which they can simply or should credit the state. Secondly, we have proposed the release from the payment of the flat-rate tax for craftsmen and small tenants due to special circumstances because they are closed due to the decision of the headquarters and we have proposed to write down 100% of the contributions for salaries to employees during the duration of the crisis simply so that they can help these people because they are closed by the decision of the headquarters due to the crown of the virus. After a very high public pressure, after we had pushed in the SDP for the past three weeks, offered to the Croatian public, and also to the Croatian government to help solve these problems in trying to preserve jobs, after pushing them to move faster, to simply do more in the direction of protection and employers, but also jobs, only one step was taken to help the economy. Therefore, the proposals for a write-down of taxes and contributions were accepted. But now you need at this specific moment of help right now to the citizens, to do what is not done. Help those most vulnerable, workers, but also unemployed, parents who stay with children at home, but also those workers who stay at home alone in self-insulation, as well as those on the first line of defense against the epidemic. Therefore, the SDP continues to insist on its second package of laws to help preserve jobs and therefore we still feel that our proposals are needed at this point. It is necessary to increase the basis for compensation for self-insulation workers to the average salary level because this fee of 2100 kuna is simply too small for a man's life. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide paid leave to at least one parent who spends time at home with his child under 12 years of age, especially since in this situation the parent is particularly affected at work. It is also necessary to increase the amount of non-taxable payments to help employers in particularly sensitive activities in the root of the crisis to reward their workers, especially those now on the first line of defence against the epidemic and helping Croatian citizens not to lack anything, so that they can reward traders, so that they can reward pharmacists, drivers, workers and logistics workers, as well as security guards, those whose simple work in these difficult times has not stopped but is even more pronounced. 4. it would be responsible to enable workers who are at risk of a job due to the crisis to pay 75% of the salary, up to a maximum of 5,100 kuna, it is a small cost to the state, and it is certainly a guarantee of a much better life for those people who cannot work in these conditions. And they can't work primarily on sectors for which Croatia's GDP depends most, it's tourism and hospitality. Tourism reminds me that it accounts for over 20% of our GDP, when tourism and hospitality are at stake in the government in this segment has done absolutely nothing, practically nothing but petty cosmetic and technical changes. We recall that the SDP has proposed to abolish the obligation to pay the flat-rate tax for small tenants, we have also proposed to abolish the obligation to pay advances for artisan craftsmen and to abolish certain parafiscal duties including the flat-rate amount of tourist tax and membership fee to the tourist community during the crisis. And I remind you that we will continue to insist that VAT in tourism and catering goes to 5% especially at this time of crisis, as we today insist that VAT on food delivery goes to 0% because we believe that in these difficult times, especially in the circumstances of the crisis when people order delivery needs to act on one hand and to reduce prices, but also to reduce taxes to those who have suffered the most damages due to the crisis, and these are the caterers. At a time of crisis, we must be solid, especially us politicians who represent citizens, especially those who are most affected by this crisis and who have lost their jobs or gone to a minimum. We therefore propose that for the next three months, parliamentary representatives and other state officials, other than those on the first line of defence against the virus, work for a minimumer to solidarity with a number of citizens who will be affected by this crisis, and unfortunately more and more in Croatia. 70,000 social assistance users, 240,000 blocked, more than 400,000 citizens living below the poverty threshold of 1,940 kuna, mostly part of the pensioners. In just two weeks of the crisis primarily due to a late government reaction, over 20,000 workers are jobless, another 400,000 fear for losing their jobs. For 5,500 permanent seasons and over that number as well as for more than 100,000 people registered on the stock market, and now they are not receiving any compensation for the simple prospect of employment is almost completely destroyed due to the crisis and they need help. So, it's over a million of the most vulnerable who can't pay the directors soon, can't pay the rent for the apartment, can't pay the loans. It is already clear that this crisis will take, in particular, a recovery from the crisis, so that we insist in the SDP that it is necessary to secure the moratorium on loans for a year, not just three months, and in a way that the interest is calculated in order to ensure on one hand the safety of entrepreneurs to continue their business, but in order to make them the most important thing, to ensure that citizens continue their normal lives without fear and uncertainty. It is necessary at this point to suspend and tighten interest, we have also suggested and is in this set of laws to help the economy and preserve jobs. So I want to say, in the SDP, we will continue to insist on the moratorium, on paying off loans for a year, but we will also insist on our third package of measures to help the citizens we presented the other day, which includes. First, a fee of 4,000 kuna per month in the next three months for unemployed people who were fired because of the root crisis, thanks to a late reaction from the government, a protection supplement of 750 kuna per month for all users of social assistance, etc. The minimum fee guaranteed is 70,000, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for all those who have income below the poverty threshold, so it's between 350 and 400,000 people below the threshold of 1,940 kuna per person for the most part of the pensioners, so these are pensioners with small pensions. We will insist on a fee of half the minimum wage, i.e. $1,625 per month for the unemployed currently on the stock market, who do not receive any remuneration and whose chance of employment has been completely destroyed due to the crisis, we will insist on continuing seasons at a minimum wage of 3,250 kuna per month of them 5,500, simply people have to live on something. Also, we propose to abolish the RTTV subscription precisely for these most affected layers of citizens, as well as a subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna renting the apartment for these mentioned categories, of course for people who are hired. What I would particularly like to put an emphasis on, I would like to stress that our legal proposals to be referred to in the procedure will require a suspension of the performance and an increase in the amount of pay free of charge, as well as the issue of bank cards blocked with a certain spending limit and the abolition of transactions i.e. compensation for transactions in online payments simply so that under the conditions of the crisis there will be no physical contact. We believe that these measures are very concrete, that they are implemented and that they should act quickly to help the most vulnerable groups of citizens, unemployed, pensioners, permanent seasons, social assistance users. I call on the government to consider them and to respect them as she has already complied with some of our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198917	Thank you. Continuing, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198918	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would only briefly comment on the moratorium law on the loans of debtors why it matters. In his statement, the CNB made public, i.e. according to the recommendations of the European Central Bank or the European Banking Supervisory Mechanism in Frankfurt, it said for a year that you have a framework for all business entities and citizens not to go to... claims. In other words, what does that mean? The CNB, or regulator, has already given a year to all business banks how to treat claims in their books, which means that banks already have the opportunity to do so. What does it matter? If this crisis, we all know, and we're aware that it can't end in three months, if the banks start to collect claims after three months, but now we have a liquidity problem, they'll simply suck all the money out of the system. If businesses and citizens come to them after three months, all these amounts, simply when the economy needs to be returned if they are bank priorities they will simply suck all the money out of the system if they have insurance instruments, they can charge much better from the state, they can be charged sooner than the state. And that's why it's important to calm down if we're saving the economic system now, now we're saving the economy of the Republic of Croatia. After three months, banks cannot be a priority over the state and cannot be a priority over other suppliers. And that's why it's important, and all the legal mechanisms have to be very good at controlling the whole process now. And here's why our intensity was to go with this moratorium for a year, only to those who are in liquid problems, only to those citizens who are at a minimum and only to those who are at risk, that they are simply given the opportunity to cope in that particular period of time. But what I'm warning you all the time is that it's simply our biggest fear of liquidity, liquidity or the insolvency of the system, that the system doesn't crack in the 6th month, is that we won't be able to get foreign exchanges about tourism and that simply when the economy starts to turn to make priority to suppliers and to pay bills, and only later will the banks that have the biggest capital and later come to the state that when the economy starts and collects their claims. Here's what I'd like to ask my colleague, Alexic, if that's what we agreed on for the last words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198919	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198920	I thank the SDP first of all for inviting me to propose with them the Moratorium on Loans Act, as this is my area of action since the beginning of the Croatian Parliament of the Bank, credit institutions, debts. I also note that it is very good that certain measures of force are also proposed in this third package, it will be proposed that we already proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia deblocking accounts, bans on enforcement, cards to everyone for free, free Internet banking, all this is important in these moments to enable citizens. The SNAGA party has proposed 16 measures in total, but I would now say something more about these moratories because it is the subject of exposure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has announced as one of the measures of the moratorium on the payment of the loan claim, as announced by the government of the Republic of Croatia, however, the government has not proposed a binding measure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has obviously discussed this with banks because banks have offered moratories to citizens, but these moratories include the calculation of interest, and these interest rates reach the day the moratorium ceases to operate and then they are deployed to wars or whatever bank it intends to negotiate with its debtors. It's not a moratorium. Such a moratorium of banks approve consumers, businesses, anyone and in a normal situation, therefore it is not a moratorium that must be made possible in the current crisis situation. In the current crisis situation, a moratorium must be allowed to collect claims from loans without interest and without any other charges being charged. If the moratorium lasts a year, and it should take a year, because the crisis will not stop the day the virus stops working, but the crisis will continue, because we will all be in the most citizens' problems, businesses less because they will start working, which is why the measure needs to be extended for a year. And it is easy to reduce the measure in the meantime if there is a better situation between citizens and businesses. Croatian banks can handle this measure without a problem. Croatian banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is excess liquidity. What does that mean? This means that they have 34 billion kunas of their own money that they can do whatever they want to do because they are not obliged to account for that money to anyone. And these 10 billion I said now seem to have fired the CNB in the last tranche another number of billions, so their liquidity is even greater than, that excess liquidity is even more than 34 billion kuna. Therefore, the banks must wait for the payment, and in addition the banks are obliged to the Croatian citizens who have robbed for the course of the franc, for the payment of interest that was illegal for a total of 20 billion kuna, hence those banks that are due to all of us, and perhaps for those of you who are here with me now, perhaps some of you banks owe us, and the banks they owe us should not now be charged in the annuity crisis. What's still missing, and what we haven't covered by the law is the licking, so the licking should be covered by the moratorium, it's primarily important for those companies that deal with transport, so they've got to get to licking buses, some other means of transport or the means of working in agriculture, so it's not working for them now, they need to be given a lysing moratorium because they don't fit at this time. So there are a series of measures still missing, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider this bill that we have put into the SDP procedure and I as Parliament's representative of the SNAGA party. I hope you will also consider this new package of measures mentioned by my colleague Bernardic, about cards, about unblocking citizens, about breaking up accounts, about free Internet banking. I don't think there's gonna be a problem with that, the government hasn't done it yet, but I don't think the government will have a problem with that, and that if the government doesn't even accept this proposal, they're going to prepare their proposal the way the government thinks it's best and they're going to put it in the process within about 7 to 10 days. Here's thank you for listening very carefully to what I've put forward and I hope you'll accept all of it in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198921	Thank you to Reverend Goran Aleksic. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinovic has a request for the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198922	... in accordance with Article. 248. The Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work seek a five-minute break in front of the club Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to warn the citizens and here present representatives of the complexity, the additional complexity of this economic situation in Croatia for which this second round of measures will not be sufficient today. In that sense, and thus I want to change Croatia constructively to this proposal for a package of measures that is now being discussed, I would like to draw particular attention to the second pension pillar. I'm looking for and I suggest, respected citizens, that they all be deposited in another pension column frozen during the crisis. Why? Because every month, on average, about 500 million kuna is paid into the second pension column, which is about 6 billion kuna a year. Now imagine how much it would mean, respected citizens, 500 million kunas every month during the crisis that you can get that money that's missing from the state, that you can pay minimum workers who have lost their jobs, social cases, those who are seasons that no one sees or asks what they're doing somewhere in between. Therefore, I think it is very important and we take advantage of this situation, we are ready, we have excellent economic experts in the party to change Croatia, we use this crisis to start reforming the second pension pillar, to transform it, to give people freedom to transfer their money or to the first pension column where they will guarantee the state or to the third liberal so that they can be rich or lost, but the time is so. If we do this, we will drastically reduce public debt, repair public finances and contribute to saving the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198923	Thank you. I'll have a break by 14.50. THE PURPOSE
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198924	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.50 HOURS]] So we have three replicas, we have two replicas at the exhibition of our colleagues Bernardic, we have one replica on the presentation of our fellow Lalovec. First fellow Maras at the fair of fellow Bernardic. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198925	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you explained a whole series of laws that I don't think it's a good thing we didn't discuss before the vote today, because some proposals are certainly still very current and we just need to apply them. One such proposal is also the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act where we predicted that one parent should be allowed to stay with his child if both parents work because we know that school doesn't work, that our children are home. We must thank parents who at this time are making a great effort to make up for this situation that is with their children, teachers who send tasks parents must work because they simply have to gain knowledge. And it would be much easier if the state would allow one parent to be at home with his child and do what is necessary. Here's what I want you to further comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198926	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198927	Dear colleague Maras. Maybe that's why you said that we don't actually have the government's opinion today because if they asked anyone responsible from the health care system of any epidemiologist, you'd say that for the possibility of spreading the infection isn't as good as our thousands of citizens do, going to work with children because they don't have anywhere to leave them. They're going with little boys, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia it hasn't been recorded yet, but we've seen that young people and children can be infected around the world and unfortunately the coronarys of the virus are dying. Not to mention when you bring a child to work, that virus can spread faster. So I can't believe that in a month there's no understanding, no sense, no common sense when it comes to treating parents who should stay home with their children for up to 12 years to prevent and spread the infection, but to make their lives much more pleasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198928	Thank you. The next replica of a colleague of the coat of arms on a colleague of Bernardic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Maras spoke of one important measure, and I would single out one other which seems to me to be extremely important for Croatian citizens, which is a matter of moratorium on loan payments. What the government of the Republic of Croatia has agreed with Croatian business banks and what business banks are giving based on their decision is all but a moratorium. It is a delay, a delay that citizens and citizens will pay dearly because during the duration of that delay they will be charged interest on the entire principal of the loan. So, in this way, the banks will actually cost 6 months of delays to Croatian citizens and make extra money in this way. That is why I believe that this may be the most important measure of all that we have proposed, and I absolutely advocate its adoption and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198930	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198931	First of all, thank you, fellow coat of arms, for that observation. That's what we're going to insist on, it's inadmissible that at this difficult moment the banks are reaching for additional profits in those who are unhappy with this crisis, which are the most endangered. And it is unacceptable for the government to calmly observe that additional interest is being charged on loans that people can no longer pay, especially those 20,000 people who are out of work thanks to the late government reaction or those 400,000 who fear that they will lose their jobs because simply those companies where they work today are closed. And that's why it's necessary, and that's why we're going to insist on making a moratorium on loans for the citizens for a year, but in a way that doesn't account for any extra interest because it's absolutely certain that this crisis is going to last and that we're going to need some more time to get out of this crisis. That's why we've been looking for a year, not any less prolongation periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198932	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask a colleague of Lalovec and a colleague of Maras you have a replica on a colleague of Lalovec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198933	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, I'd like to comment on the situation regarding the delay and moratorium on the loans. At this point, we have a situation that is not regulated and defined, so some banks haven't charged loans by this date until they see that citizens are applying for them to process and examine it in some way who would have the right and who wouldn't have the right. But I think and I think it would be normal for the state to regulate the system and know exactly what situation citizens are entitled to the moratorium for a year and on the other hand to protect them from the uncertainty of the next months and the next year. Because we know all seasons will be zero, over 300,000 people will be out of a job very soon, 300,000 took advantage of the possibility of being on the minimal offered by the government, the state has to do it urgently, so we don't have time to wait because the banks already recognized certain problems I think the state should too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198934	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198935	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, for asking. That's why the SDP also proposes a moratorium for a year, precisely because this won't be over in three months, only at 6 and 7 months we'll see the state of unemployment in society, we'll see that a number of companies that will only then open their doors at 6 and 7 months start from zero, let's not forget that they start from scratch that these three months of moratorium mean nothing to them. These companies will all take more than a year to recover their pre-crisis traffic. And because of this, when these companies start from zero, they will likely have minimally certain revenues, no tourism, no economic activity, and therefore it is important that in the 6th, 7th and 8th months when economic activity is due to return, not all banks will be frozen to purchase all of the liquidity from the system and thus will still cause economic recession and therefore we expect a very fast liquidity fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198936	Thank you. Now the government's representatives will give an additional explanation in a united call it a 15-minute debate with you being able to replicate each and every one of them, they will change. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198937	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In addition, to the set of legal regulations as well as the conclusions proposed in this agenda, a total of 10, what was introduced and said in view of the government's obligation to give its position and opinion, which for obvious reasons is the speed of action, given that these proposals are also by emergency procedure, here I use the opportunity to present at least in this section as regards the Ministry of Finance, so colleagues in their section. I would just like to begin by thanking my colleagues from the SDP and everyone who voted today for these legal regulations adopted by this House of Commons, proposed by the Government in order to mitigate the effects of the coronary epidemic of the virus. So far, we have had two packages of legislation in March and now in this month, totaling 32 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 18 decisions and 3 conclusions are all aimed at protecting the health of citizens, and, of course, preserving jobs and preserving the liquidity of businesses so that the economy can survive at all. In this regard, because of sustainability and the state budget itself, they would point out that in this way and in this way these measures so far have been developed by the Government in terms of citizenship, and solidarity and synchronisation in the work of all components of society is more than necessary and important to emerge from this crisis as little as possible and that the economy and society can function as a whole. As regards the legal rules that came from the Ministry's domain, there were five, the General Tax Law as a roof regulation that regulates the relationship between the tax authority and the taxpayer through whose... we went to regulate all these provisions concerning the suspension of payments to ultimately write down claims all under the tax code through the General Tax Code. This is what we wanted to shorten the procedures and go line-by-line in that part of taxation, all of the norms went through the General Tax Law, and now, after today's vote of law, of course, will be accessed and drawn up by the regulations themselves, which will set the deadlines where they are needed in terms of moving deadlines, as is, for example, allowed through the amendment of the Accounting Act, but in this section through the Regulation they will be allowed to be now 30.6. or some other date due to this operationality daily because the situation is changing, they can be freely said from day to day. So it's very important to know that as we know we have the main factor or factor in this whole situation completely unknown, it's the length of the duration of this crisis, and with its length and impact on the economy. Therefore, this dosing of measures that the state budget can take or will have to pass through some other types of funding must be such that it is sustainable, that it generally exists as a state budget. As regards these provisions of some of these proposals, I would just like to mention, for example, the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act where an untaxable reward for risk-related risks to elemental disasters is proposed, I would like to remind you that we already have these provisions in norms as untaxable including health care that was previously untaxable. So I'm really sorry, and I wouldn't want it to turn out that we don't want to meet all these good demands that are being proposed here, but since the regulations that are mutually synchronised are both the Ministry of Finance and the other members of the government. Certain proposals here are somewhat contrary to some of the activities that we have today supported by the government's adoption of these legal proposals. Of course, as far as the third round that the prime minister announced in terms of measures related to citizens is concerned, I believe the next measure, and which you are now pointing out here, and I assume that this will have more to say to the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198938	Thank you. I'm asking the next representative of the government. So on your show we have three replicas, we'll do that later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198939	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. I present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in oral form on the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the amount of support to preserve jobs in activities affected by the Crown virus, the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament not accept this proposal for a conclusion on increasing the amount of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the virus virus submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives' Club. First of all, I must stress that the focus of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to protect health, as well as to preserve all jobs and fight for every job. We stand firm behind Croatian workers, and in this sense there is a measure and all the other measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken. The meeting, held on 2 April 2020, concluded on the second group of measures to help the economy resulting from an outbreak of the coronary virus and the implementation of all these measures provided 65 billion kuna, I repeat 65 billion kuna. And for the support we are talking about, support for job conservation is provided 8.5 billion kuna and according to the current projections that we have, this measure will cover 500,000 workers. In accordance with the policy of preserving jobs, the amount of support to preserve jobs in sectors affected by the coronary virus has been increased from 3,250 kuna, as you know to 4,000 kuna per worker for April and May of this year, and employers using those support will also be freed from the cost of corresponding contributions. Just to remind you, the state is also carrying the burden of paying a contribution of around 1,500 kuna. And what I must especially point out is that on today, therefore, on 7 April, we have received 84,000 requests for about 500,000 workers, and only so far have we paid 600 million kuna. You remember that some day already the employers who applied and whose application or application was valid that one day they sat down 600 million kunas in total for a job-preservation measure or support. What I must also particularly stress and remind is that both employers and workers and trade unions and the entire Croatian public have, to a great extent, praised this measure of support for the preservation of jobs. The level of support is set at 4,000 kuna in order to cover as I have said as many workers as possible, to ensure the necessary material protection, to keep people in employment and to facilitate the business of employers under special circumstances and, of course, to account for available financial opportunities. What I must also point out when we talk about support for job conservation, it also existed in the past crisis that lasted during the SDP, but I must state that at that time the support for the preservation of jobs was consumed in 4 years only 2,008 times. Well, thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198940	Time, please. We have two replicas on your exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198941	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. As for the Ministry of Justice's portfolio, we have already repeated several times that with due attention, given the circumstances in which we are working on several amendments to the current legislative proposals. First of all, the executive procedures at this point have stopped. It is our recommendation to the public notaries to make all the public notes available for deadlines that will run when this situation continues. So our recommendation is that public notebooks make executive solutions, but don't send them to the executives until they pass the circumstances caused by the COVID-19 crisis. Also in the following days, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take new measures to fully halt the executive procedures until the elements of this health threat have passed. As regards the proposal to reduce the tightening interest rate on trade relations and contracts between traders and public rights persons, we believe that, although we appreciate the proposal's intention, it was not only in this particular section that the other relations were taken into account. Also in the non-standard part, it is not explained until the end, which means this feedback and justification of such feedback in view of the situation that has arisen since the day we declared the pandemic, which is 19 March 2020. Considering everything that you have suggested the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also working on this set of legal changes that will come in a package with a resolution of laws relating to the Ministry of Justice. The question of deadlines is also a matter of several laws, with due regard to the specificity of the issue of deadlines at the Ministry of Justice, we have proposed and in a few days everything about deadlines will be available to the public in order not to question the functioning of the judicial system as a whole. I repeat, it is not time for us to speak politically now, professionally with the justice portfolio we will do everything to address the issue of blocked citizens in a few days, the issue of enforcement in a way that will stop until the circumstances that require the situation to be normal in the Croatian state continue in a way that we can work on the new Executive Law, and that we now do in this part of the crisis stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198942	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives of colleagues and colleagues. Here before I start reading what I'm going to say today given these points that I would just remind everyone present today that today is World Health Organization Day, and we can especially speak with pleasure because we all know very well that one of the founders, and surely the first president of the World Health Organization was ours. Andrija Printer. First, he would refer to the proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I must say that the legal proposal suggests that one of the parents has the right to pay wages during the temporary prevention to work for the care of a child up to 12 years of life for the closure of educational institutions and that is, if the reasons for the closure of a health or safety nature are on the burden of HZZO funds. Since the rights provided under compulsory health insurance rights are directly linked to the use of healthcare in the existence of a disease or medical indication to achieve the same, that issue cannot be regulated by the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and cannot be achieved on the burden of the means of compulsory health insurance because there is no medical indication for the same in the sense of the Health Insurance Act. The second promemory is mine, which speaks of the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the maximum or maximum monthly amount of salary compensation, on the burden of HZZO assets, isolated or self-insulated employees due to the Covida-19 epidemic. This proposal proposes to increase the maximum monthly amount of salary compensation on the burden of HZZO funds to isolated or self-insulated employees due to an outbreak of covids and to the amount of the average salary in the Croatian Republic in January 2020. The proposal is not acceptable without the provision of additional funding from the state budget and therefore we do not agree with the proposal of this law Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198944	Thank you. Please give me just stay here, and we'll go the other way because we have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, followed by his colleague Maras. And I apologize to Anka's colleague, Mr. Taritash. Just stay, so you can answer immediately that we don't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198945	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State and I join in reminding ourselves that today is the World Health Day, especially dedicated to nurses and midwives who make a really big contribution to this fight. What I want to ask you is, are you in charge of ensuring the financial stability of this system in the ministry, because after the end of the crisis, the situation will be even worse, and therefore I appeal that, at the same time with the fight against the crown of the virus, you lead and fight to save the financial stability of the health system when the coronary crisis is over. Also, since we have all received a letter from the Chamber of Health Care Professionals of a special segment of health laboratory activity, to withdraw from the e-consultation of the law currently in the debate on medical biochemical activity because it is not in conformity with all stakeholders and is a discrimination against the employees of the laboratory profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198946	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198947	I would refer to this first part, to this second part, I think we've talked a lot about it, and I think that when this entire epidemic of Corona virus passes, we'll have plenty of time to talk about it in peace. As far as the financial situation is concerned, the fact is that we are now in a special position to provide health care to all those who have suffered from Covidom-19 infection and that this is our priority because it means not only that we have to provide financial resources for the adaptation of our hospital spaces, for the opening of respiratory centres, for the unification of certain functions of intensive care, intensive therapy, the acquisition of apparatus etc., etc., so for now we in one part would say reduced health work on issues of more selective procedures, and to the maximum focus on what cannot wait, and these are clearly medical emergencyes and malignant diseases, in this respect we have maximum orientation. and technical and financial, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198948	Thank you. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198949	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, as I understand from your debate, the government, or the state, has no money to pay to allow parents to stay, at least one of the two employed parents to stay with their children at home. When we estimated what the amount would be for the next period, we came to some billions of kunas if we used that exactly all in the Republic of Croatia in such a situation, which probably wouldn't be the case. But it's amazing to me that for our children, for parents who have to work with them on their home education, who have to take care of them, try to be sure in some way not to expose them to this whole situation under the motto "stay home" the government says there's no money for it. For some other things that cost the same thing, there's money. Now, you explain to me why the government can't find the money to keep each of our parent employees at least one of them, with their children at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198950	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198951	So I can't speak on behalf of the government, I'm not Prime Minister or Prime Minister, but I can say what and repeat what I said today and today this part of the financial compensation is not part of it, not part of which would be the health insurance from which patients who need to finance the health system as a whole are financed. So he just can't get into this law. If the government has money from some other means, I can't say it right now because I'm neither Minister of Finance nor Prime Minister, but I can't get into HZZO health insurance, it's not the same, there's no place for that legal space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198952	A fellow Maras injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198953	Thank you very much. The 238th article was injured, you here Mr. Secretary of State said you couldn't answer because you're neither Prime Minister nor Minister of Finance, and why did you come here to give your opinion on it? Are you just here to convey greetings and messages or represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about this law? You must give us an answer if you are a representative of the government. Why is it not possible to secure these funds in the state budget? It's going to be budget rebalance, plan them, you can't tell us that's not possible. So I'm begging you, Mr. Vice President, they're here. Government representatives have to give us answers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198954	Thank you, so in. So just for a second, so you can't because this isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Maras. [[/Intruder: Can I answer?]] So they give answers within their means, so no injured Rules of Procedure Please don't do this anymore. [[Intruder: Within its resources.]] Third replica of Anka's colleague, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198955	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you are here on behalf of your ministry and on behalf of the Government and we expect answers from you. In my replica, I ask you to read the following fact. So we at the GLAS Club immediately applied for an emergency procedure of the law where those in self-insulation linked to the threat we have from the virus would have a fee different from that prescribed at this point. What exactly is this about? It's about two weeks of self-insulation, and we only gave that up when it started, the fee was 2,100 kuna and it remained. But there's something else, when we looked at that law, that compensation for people who decided to donate an organ to someone, so they give someone their kidney, when they're on sick leave to receive a fee of 4,400 kuna in a month. So I'm interested in your position regarding these self-insulation and organ donation charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198956	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198957	It is difficult to compare the diseases resulting from organ transplants and the issue of organ transplanters with Covida-19 infection. These are two things that in medicine simply cannot be compared because they have neither the same etiology nor the same medical I would say weight. As for financial compensation to people who are in isolation or self-insulation, it is as much as the Government has decided at the moment that they can give, and whether there will be financial resources in the coming period depending on the development of the overall situation with this pandemic that is something we will see in the future, and probably according to that, we will then be different and financially oriented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198958	Thank you. Now we have three replicas of Secretary of State Salapic. The first is a colleague of the coat of arms, you can talk slowly, and you'll make one small intervention. Thank you. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198959	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, I assume you know what I'm going to ask you, and this concerns the situation in the judiciary and the fact that despite the announcements made by the Minister of Justice Mr. Bosnjakovic in the interim building of a meeting in the basement of a historic ININE building 10 days ago, we still don't have a law that would regulate the course of court deadlines in times of crisis. And you and I both know how many problems there are in the Croatian judiciary otherwise, we know that these problems are further highlighted now in the Kovid era, we know that there are courts that are blocked because individuals in these courts have been infected, we know that the earthquake makes it impossible to use a whole series of courts buildings in Zagreb. My question is, when are you going to refer to the procedure a law that will regulate the time-limits in court proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198960	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198961	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, we are in preparation for the deadline law, and we have already repeated it several times. It's not about one law. It's about a set of laws and a very sensitive matter. What I can say responsibly, the justice system in the circumstances in which we are caused by the earthquake, Covidom-19, works so that the rule of law is not compromised at any time. As for the specifics, we are in a few days will be after Easter and with you here in Parliament discussing this. There is nothing that would endanger any citizens of the Republic of Croatia to protect their rights, and also as far as investigative procedures are concerned, the urgency of court proceedings, all courts in the Republic of Croatia are doing their job in such a way that these laws are implemented no matter where the court is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198962	Thank you. The next replica of Anka's colleague Mrak Taritas, followed by counterpart Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198963	Before starting with the replicas, distinguished secretary of state, therefore we are in this area not because of the crown but because of the earthquake that was in Zagreb. The earthquake that was in Zagreb, what we have a chance to see has done a lot of damage in courts that are basically in the lower city where there was damage. I'm curious, of course, when you're here, then you're going to give us answers to what we have a chance to ask you, which is whether it started with the damage recovery, as you've thought, whether or not with the Ministry in charge of the property you're seeing some other locations where the work of the judiciary might take place, because some resolutions will take a very long time, and we think that life can't stop and we hope that this threat will end quickly, so that life will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198964	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198965	Thank you very much. You were the Minister of Construction, and then you know that some demands are complicated. As far as the County Court building in Zagreb is concerned, the reconstruction took place immediately after the earthquake and will eventually become operational. As for replacement properties, we have found several locations that will soon be published by one of them is a building on Harambasic Street that has about 4000 square meters, there will be moved by certain judicial institutions, the Commercial Court, part of the Administrative, etc. What we've been doing certainly from the day of the earthquake to today, we've taken steps to make the entire justice system work soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198966	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198967	Thank you. Dear Secretary Salapic, please answer my very simple question, you have now announced publicly that the government will prepare a stalemate of all tasks. But from what I've come from the media, I've concluded that it's a law relating to monetary performances, but I'm asking you specifically now, does this mean that it's going to be a stalemate of all tasks, means those who go through the FINE and those who the employer takes out from pay and pay the creditor where the pension is, too, part of the pension goes to the believer, will all of this be covered by the stalemate, and will there be a delay in the flow of tight interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198968	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198969	Your Honor, I've said and I repeat three times, we've been working on everything, we've made a recommendation to the public notaries to do a stop since the day the earthquake happened and these results caused by Covidom-19. No executioner has received an executive solution, no action, no execution, no actions. Within a week, we will unblock 240,000 citizens in time of 3 months when they will be able to fully manage their incomes in full amounts. As for the others, if I did not say in advance something that needs to be discussed on professional bodies, I would not want to be hasty to make sure that at this point we stop and help as many Croatian citizens as possible at the risk of this health threat in a way that we will stop as much as possible with the executive procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198970	Thank you. Next we have two replicas to the secretary of state, Mrs. Buric. We have, first is colleagues Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic. A little intervention, so we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198971	Dear Secretary of State, you have proudly pointed out in your presentation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the first step of 3,200 kuna in the second of 4,000 kunas net and around 5,200 gross for more than 80,000 employers and about 500,000 Croatian workers. I wonder if you can give us information on how much of these 500,000 workers before the crisis and before the decision on the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had a salary greater or significantly greater than that 3,200 kuna or 4,000 kuna or whether you can tell us how many of them fell to the minimum because of this government decision and whether these employers will still feel this crisis or not, or whether it will fall on the back of those 500,000 workers. And on the other hand, I have to comment that in your comparison of support from the SDP government I have an impression, I hope I'm wrong, as if you're lucky that this crisis hit Croatia so that you can say that HDZ has given 500,000 support, which is much less than he was giving the SDP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's exactly what I noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198972	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198973	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Giujic, I'm sorry that your feeling is cheating on you, it's very cheating on you. So I'll repeat our focus is health protection and on the other hand protection of all jobs. That is why we have provided an additional 8.5 billion kuna for the support measure to preserve jobs. What I must also tell you is that today we have 84,000 demands for about 500,000 workers, and so far we have paid about 600 million kuna. We're working at five speeds and moving on intensively. I just want to say that in the HZZ which is the implementing body for this measure, officials work in two shifts, so it is really intensive and what is our main intensity and the main goal is to preserve jobs. Also facilitating employers, facilitating workers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198974	Thank you. Next replica of colleague Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198975	Mrs Buric argued in her presentation that the measures of the government of the Republic of Croatia are equally supported by employers, workers and trade unions. It's only partially true. So you've respected almost all the proposals that came from the HUP, but not a single proposal that came from the union. Moreover, an amendment to the Labour Act has been prepared in your ministry to derogate workers' rights. That's fortunately prevented at the GSV session at least for the time being. Can you tell me if you are planning to bring any changes to the Labour Law in due time or if you are planning something else that we have already heard to suit workers, rather than going towards breaking this crisis just over their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198976	Thank you. Here's an answer from the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198977	Thank you very much. So that component, which is unfortunately unpredictable, is the duration of this entire crisis related to the crown, i.e. Covid-19. Our short-term measures and the medium-term measures are presented, before you. What I am extremely pleased about is that a very high consensus has been reached, I will repeat both employers and workers and unions and the overall social community and I believe that in any case it is something that is very important at this time and because of the feelings of our citizens and the sense of security and protection in very, very difficult and challenging times. Anyway, what I also have to tell you is that we've opened absolutely all the questions, we've assumed all the questions and we're considering [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198978	Thank you. And the last set of replicas on Secretary of State Zrinasic. There you go. You don't have a replica anymore. First up, she's a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198979	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have spent a lot of time with us in this crisis, and in your opening statement, you have explained what you have done, what you have done, what you intend to do. We don't normally think in GLAS that the state should always and every time everything is very sharp and everything needs to be regulated and regulated, but when it comes to banks, when it comes to the moratorium on loans, when it comes to the lying houses that colleagues were talking about in the opening presentation, we don't think that it can just work on a deal between the resolution minister and the banks, so that banks decide, we think it should also be defined by law. Don't let it happen to us that behind this crown epidemic and the downfall of the economy, the only one who will benefit from it and come out richer will be the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198980	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198981	Here, thank you very much. I agree with your suggestion in terms of the treatment of all entities in this crisis and the financial sector mentioned. Of course, this one division of all the participants in this situation is very important in terms of balance and tomorrow the continuation of life, as well as our citizens, and economic operators, and ultimately the financial institutions that in their part this is leaning on or these former ones are leaning on them. We have had some further proceedings that financial institutions have launched against the Republic of Croatia for, due to the adoption of certain legal norms that we still have court proceedings outside the Republic of Croatia, and in that sense, the government in the first steps has been better agreed than imperative if it is possible. Of course, this tall home and all together We'll bring certain regulations that are best. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198982	Thank you. Comrade coat of arms, here's another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198983	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, of course, and my question will be focused on the moratorium on loans, you understand why. I got word today by a gentleman with his situation, a loan he took last year, a war of 3,000 kunas a month, a clear principal in this year has paid nothing back. In order to get a six-month stay, so to get a refund of $18,000, the bank will account for an interest of more than 12,000. Do you think that's okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198984	Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198985	Thank you very much. Now you've brought up one case that is probably and life-like, I really can't get into the calculations right now, but the situations that have happened so far, or today, in terms of the crisis triggered by the corona virus, they're not at all comparable, so we're going to agree, and what this crisis is about to take action is to take those measures that were unimaginable until yesterday. So in this sense, what we are discussing today and what will be discussed in the coming days and making appropriate decisions will certainly require some measures that may not have been imagined in the past, and so this question that you are now asking, indeed weighs now what is right, you are a lawyer in the given conduct in terms of the Law on Mandatory Relations and other measures that, in certain exceptional circumstances, are necessary to take, this is something that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198986	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198987	Thank you, Vice President. So, first of all, I would like to say that all state secretaries here represent the government and I can't say that they don't represent the government, if they don't represent the government, they shouldn't have come here, she should have come as Prime Minister and Minister. Why is the suspension of the moratorium on loans of 3 months not sufficient? Because people took credit for example. in tourist activity extended either quality or expanded their accommodation facilities. This season is gone, it is clear to all of us, because the crown must stop not only in Croatia it must stop throughout Europe or around the world for tourists to go at all. Those people already know. What does it mean to them if after three months they have to pay off the loan, and they don't make money because this year they won't make any money. So, come on, let's approach the reasonable problem, reasonablely. So this proposal of ours to be for a year until they start working, until they start working is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198988	Thank you. Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198989	Thank you very much for asking. The measures launched by the Government during March and relating to the Coronal Virus, of course, are seen in terms of other Member States that are economically stronger and more powerful in terms of the construction of measures concerning the state budget. In this part and other measures that are not directly related to the state budget, of course the government has watched other Member States do so since we are EU members. Indeed, it is one graduation and degree of measures, so that the synchronicity and solidarity of all participants is now extremely important and not only as a flossula, and not only as a flossula, but also as an necessity to overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198990	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the proposal, actually, a set of laws. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, so she is a colleague of Grozdana Peric's. Here you go, after the intervention, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198991	Respect for the esteemed vice president, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, first and foremost to the Government, and we must always respect all the good proposals that are possible to always be accepted and incorporated into even better legal proposals. What we cannot accept at this time, which is this set of your laws, the SDP proposal, primarily because, as you know, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, and unfortunately, the earthquake that took place on the 22nd of this month and last month, so the two situations that were in any scenario were actually amazing. When the government agreed on those first March measures, it was only thinking about what would happen and what would be the consequences of the pandemic, and you know very well that when any measure is taken that all facts must then be considered, all the effects that would be and how such a situation would reflect both on the economy and on private lives, and in the first place on the health of the population or the whole nation. Therefore, when such measures are taken, they must be very well thought out. You have to take full parameters as if you're doing a new budget because all of the details you have to take care of. So in that first set, the measure covered what we had previously adopted, and we cannot say that it was very bad at that moment. The second set of measures came after this not even 15 days and today we adopted it and you must admit that there are many factors involved that have helped and calmed the whole situation and the uncertainty that has been caused by these two disasters. In the first part of the fee itself was 3,250 plus contributions, now it is 4,000 plus contributions, and in the meantime you see that there have been changes in that everything, every employer who fired a part of the worker precisely because of this uncertainty that he will be able to continue to work, has been given the opportunity to bring these employees back, and at this point there are 13,600 employees who then exercise the right, so they do not interrupt the employment relationship and return to the system of work and have the right to compensation of 4,000 kuna increased for the contributions that are once again on the burden of the state budget and what is important to say that the weight of these measures is over 8.5 billion kuna. At this point, we know that over 60,000 taxpayers, or entrepreneurs, have requested this measure and that more than 600 million kunas have already been paid. Very soon, so in the month, and only a practical application was made. What you should also say is that in, that citizenship and what you have in certain legal requirements is actually a request for a moratorium and so on. credit obligations are all understood, but at this point what we have brought is that through the amendments to the General Tax Law we have regulated exactly the possibility of these obligations being suspended temporarily, to stop the implementation and for all other public duties, and it is certainly always a question of what, after 3 months or after 6 months. And it's perfectly justified that we all think about it because each one of us has or has or has credit obligations and certainly doesn't care when that obligation arrives. However, let the government do and do these, these two packages that will be adopted within a very short period of time, and a new measure that will allow citizens to be so much more peaceful and that it can function in this way. It's already mentioned today what happens and when it's going to happen. In fact, it's very important how long it's going to take this particular measure that's caused by Covido-19. And what remains secretly to us in the following certainly 7, 8 if not for many years, which is these measures that will need to be done to help citizens rebuild apartments, houses, historical sights, churches, etc. and we will certainly have much help from EU funds. What we are also talking about when we talk about a set of these measures is about paying VAT, I have already mentioned that in the VAT projection for this year there were over 50 we expect revenue 55 and some billion kuna and now after this everything that happens pandemic, there is no tourism, there is no consumption, and besides these elemental disasters, then we can assume how much impact all this will have on the revenue side of the budget that cannot expect so much charge and which will have to think very much about a lot of other sources of funding. We must not forget that it is already in previous measures that it is possible for companies to private up to 7.5 million traffic or over 7.5 with a 20 per cent or more drop in traffic to 50%, that the possibility of partly prolonging, reprogramming, to write off part of the claim and debt, therefore a large part of these measures has already been consumed and I think that the Government has responded in a very good and rapid way about all of this. What you just insisted on, and this secretary of state expected to answer your question, so it really can't happen if something isn't caused by disease, infection, etc. that pay compensation cannot then be compensated from a source of compulsory health insurance, then there are other measures because you know it is illegal. So you can't prejudge something, so you can't be sick, but there was a measure for it, and there's a way that you can pay off on a different basis, and another way that can be helped, and eventually it's accepted and we finally adopted it. So when we look at the total of these measures that are now over 45 billion kuna plus 20 billion that have reached commitments from previous periods, then you see that the set of these measures is over 9.6% of our GDP, which is certainly more than many other European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198992	Thank you, thank you. We're continuing on behalf of the clubs. Next registered counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. A colleague of Zekanovic does not have and in accordance with Article 233 he loses the right to talk about this item of the agenda for, throughout the entire debate. We continue with the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, colleagues of Grmoje and colleagues of Bulj shared the debate. First one's a colleague of the Grmoi. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198993	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we warned with that first package of government measures that these measures would not be enough, we said that we needed to go to the write-off, not to the delays, and the government listened to us. At that time, no amendment to the opposition was accepted. Not because these amendments were bad because it proved later that the government was all what we were saying at the Most but also other colleagues actually accepted, but they weren't accepted just because they came from the ranks of the opposition. Today we have the same situation, the second, second round of the Government package, all the amendments we have given have been rejected and it can be concluded that in this crisis situation the opposition shows unity and constructiveness, and by ruling again shows one party boredom. This is what grieves all over this story, and in particular the sadness that those first to be thought of, to whom the first should be intended package they will come third in a row, in the third round after Easter. Our seniors, our pensioners, our unemployed, our blocked and completed. MOST first thinks of you or think of you first, not as the last, as those on which the measures will be taken after the Easter. We asked the Croatian Parliament to continue the session, to support itself or our proposal because we too have a proposal on a moratorium on loans and performances or a proposal from colleagues from the SDP, but we do not even ask for that. Give you your ruling proposal, give your government colleagues your proposal we will gladly raise your hand to him. Our citizens who are the most endangered in our society deserve a peaceful and peaceful Easter, deserve a resurrection without a cold, a resurrection without fear, a Easter in joy with their families. So much for me, and hopefully here you'll change your mind, there's still time, the president of the assembly can call and tomorrow's session of the assembly, the government can give its measures and we'll be happy to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198994	Please stop the time for a moment, thank you. A little intervention. Thank you, ma'am or miss. Here you go, fellow Bull, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198995	My colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representatives of the government, why am I partly disappointed? Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said so too, but it is noticeable in the general public that the opposition is making constructive proposals, and that the Government simply rejects them, and anything proposed constructively by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the opposition accepts it. These measures that the MOST has also given, and we are now discussing the SDP measures especially about the most endangered, about the postponement of the credit, about the delay of the performance, that's what the first tribal is about, the first measure. These people are the most endangered right now. No one would forgive these people, but it would be delayed if they weren't responsible for this crisis. And what he would point to here, today was a vote on the results of Croatian politics, poor conduct of Croatian agriculture, bad leadership, so I gave the law on the ban on the sale of agricultural land. The government rejected it, both foreign and legal, foreign and legal individuals. It is the government of the Republic of Croatia, the honourable representatives of the government, the citizens, if you are looking, who refused to sell agricultural land, refused my proposal to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. And the agricultural land, is, right now, agriculture has said that the wrong policies we had mainly towards agriculture so that it disappoints me that the opposition is constructive at this point, accepts all the proposals that you government representatives make, and you reject all of ours from the opposition, but these are proposals for the benefit of the citizens. Well, a lot of the suggestions I've made for SDP hasn't voted for them, but this is a good proposal, I'll support it. You would hardly accept any amendment, any proposal from the opposition. Why? Because you're using both the crisis and this health and economic crisis exclusively for the PR, and that's not good, everyone here is equal, we're all at risk. Thus, when we are discussing these laws and speaking now with us at Easter today, he represented the council in this crisis, of course, that they should be much, much more constructive from the position of power. If we're looking for a delay, because now it's SDP law, and MOST suggested it, the MOST Club and this and other colleagues in the opposition don't see any reason why you wouldn't accept it and why the government didn't put that measure into emergency procedure and we would vote again today or come tomorrow. And not now for Easter you leave that space, the greatest Christian holiday I congratulate from this place I wish all happy and blessed Easter, the greatest Christian holiday to all our citizens. For days, it was broken whether markets should be opened, so of course the triba with all the respect measures because it is more likely to be infected by the coronary virus in a closed area trade chain, but foreign products are sold there, and domestic products were mostly sold in the markets. Here I hear the announcement now and it is my pleasure that after a long, long application will open up markets that should not have been closed at all, but with all the criteria of respect that the Tribals would respect as in trade chains, but better to buy Italian pomidores, it is better to buy strawberries than this Spain than Vrgoračka, it is better to buy meaning those products. Here, I would say in the end that I am disappointed that we are not continuing to work while all groups of unemployed, retired, particularly completed and blocked and, of course, all these measures he has proposed in this case suggest opposition to what we are leaving. The government could have made this simple, it could have made a proposal for its additions and we could have settled it in this big week before it meant Big Thursday and Big Friday. In this way we would actually come to a solution and a peaceful Easter. In the end, you would wish all the citizens a happy and blessed Easter, hopefully if there are measures here, you see 151 of us here that on this greatest Christian holiday and Croatian believers will have the possibility under all measures either within the sacral churches, either outside churches, here you in the government or in front of churches or in the courtyards will be allowed at least to share, not all, part of the people, the believers can unfortunately have the opportunity to participate in this greatest Christian meanings on Easter, the greatest Christian holiday and the sacrament. And once again, I wish you all a happy and blessed Easter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198996	Thank you. We are continuing to debate on behalf of the club of MPs, next is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, in front of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Taritash. So five minutes dark, five minutes Taritate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198997	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the Crown Virus or Covida-19, no matter what we call it, has caused major changes in our lives. One of these changes will also be seen on the greatest Christian holiday of Easter that we will certainly not be working in a circle of some broader family because everyone is staying home and I really respect that if you are guarding yourself, guarding someone else and keeping everyone around you and we are taking care of it. We sit here at a distance, we don't shake hands, we take care of each other, and when we talk to someone, we use space. And that's all the coronary virus has changed, but something hasn't changed. It did not change that when it comes to opposition proposals that they will get their place in the Croatian Parliament in the worst time, so now not even the evening term, but after the vote, this package of laws won and did not change that when the opposition gives amendments, that these amendments, no matter how reasonable they may be, how helpful they might even be, that they refuse to explain themselves. I'm just going to refer to me as the favorite amendment that was rejected today by our club, we've given an amendment that is related to office leaders and tourism that, because of the Corona virus or Covida-19, they no longer need to know foreign language. So when the coronary is a virus or a Covida-10, those who run offices, they don't have to know foreign language with tourism. And now we say the amendment of my people so don't do crazy things, it has nothing to do with it, and it's being rejected, and it's quite serious, the secretary of state has explained why it's happening, if you're asking me why, I don't know, but it's been pretty serious. But let's get back to this subject. The first set of measures that was in March, I must admit that I'm always somehow trying to understand, so whether or not I agree with that first set of measures that we can call March I understood. We didn't know what the scales were, no matter what the crown was rolling behind the hills when it came to Europe, someone got a little better, someone got a little worse. It was not a willingness to bring some options, or some variants, because it did not know how long this would take. So I had this first set of measures that way. The second set of measures I called April 1 0, because with the certainty that a second set of measures will come in April which we will call April 2 0, all those who spoke can't go in just a delay you have to write off, you have to define something. We spoke as opposition MPs, they spoke to the businessmen, they all said, and in that second set of measures, some things were heard. And you saw that at the vote that was today and that was 130 of us, I don't remember when we were, the last time we were 130 when there was a set of measures or a little less of those Marchs, it just means that after all, the MPs, no matter how we were perceived, are responsible. We are responsible for what we are saying, we are responsible for certain crisis situations and this responsibility and opposition parliamentary deputies are really ready to take over on their backs and no matter what you're discussing and with some things you disagree with and some things you warn us that now the situation is next, which is that we need to support and support a set of measures, but for tango we need two. Tango doesn't go to one, so no matter how you turn around, but the other one's just like that, he's gone to sleep somewhere, and he's waiting somewhere. That's what I'm saying between, so the opposition suggests something, and on the other hand it's a government that's pretty hard to say that these things can't be accepted, but then at some headquarters conferences that I can really say that it seems to me that it's doing a good job, it's using time to deal with some political inexperiences, which is not good. So, at these moments, the opposition has made clear everything from the government that comes, and we conclude that it is good that it will help the citizen, we will support the citizens, but we also think that the time when the opposition proposes something, so sit down, talk, let's talk. And it's not even a problem that then the government in some package April 2 0, May 1 0 or that took what was there and said here we took and said one sentence is the subject of a common agreement. As long as the crown lasts, it should listen to experts and they somehow predict how it will grow, fall, linearly and everything else. What will be the consequences of the Corone or Covida-19 on the economy that no one, regardless of the experiences they have, can predict. It seems to us that this crisis is to be used for a few things. The first thing to take advantage of is a little look at our laws being written. They're being written unreasonablely, written in a way that we don't want them to be understood by anyone, complicated, complicated in procedures, we tend to complicate where we shouldn't. Maybe one of the situations, or the outcome of this crisis, that we all think about it together a little bit. I will only take one example, of course I live in the City of Zagreb, until the City of Zagreb would care, an example of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the behaviour of the City of Gas. People closed the gas in houses that weren't even damaged by the earthquake because they were well built. The gas station said okay, to let you gas out, you have to come to us, you have to fill in 3 or 4 requirements in the context of the crown only you come to us maybe someone has, so we'll split it up and pay 3,000 kuna and then when you do all that, then we'll make a list of priorities and we'll go and release that gas. My people, if it weren't true, it would be for one of those comedies or soap operas, but that's true. So, the first time I heard it from a guy in the city gas station, I was sitting at home, I thought I heard something wrong, I heard something. So, from this crisis, maybe we could come out smarter because look at the e-citizen working neatly, everything works through emails, let's be something smarter and try to see the regulations and see what we regulate and how we regulate it. Another thing we should be able to get out of this crisis, we should be clearly wondering what kind of economy we want for Croatia, whether we want to hang on to tourism, whether we want to only hang on to imports and certain services, or if we think something else is going on here. Today we voted for the amendments to the Agriculture Act, which in the sense of no one at all is disputed, but in the debate we're the Minister of Resorna was with us, we said something we might need to take well-meaningly, we think the time has come when agriculture is for a serious reset. Something about that farm and the way we work is wrong. This is the moment when we can reset ourselves, we can take the green plan that the EU has made regarding climate change, more climate change after 2 months we no longer mention ourselves, and two months ago our mouths were full of climate change, see what the green threshold for agriculture is, and maybe it's a strategy for the development of Croatia's agriculture with some adjustments. From this set of laws, it is especially important that the law which speaks of a delay is related to loans. No, and that's what I said to the secretary of state, and I repeat, and now for the rest of this pay phone, don't let this crisis that's hit us all, we still don't know what the scales are, the ones that come out unscathed or richer, be banks, like it was in every crisis. Let's try to really take care of our citizens and the problems they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198998	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The last reported debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives was a debate reported by counterpart Tomislav Žagar, in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u198999	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear State Secretarys and State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. The HSU Club, independent representatives, New Politics and SNAGA will support this set of laws proposed by the SDP Club because one member of our club participated actively in the preparation of these laws. Why is that? Well, this set of laws, first of all, all those measures that the government, which we voted today, are vertical and horizontally expanding. Vertically in the amount of compensation and assistance to be provided, and horizontally to most of our citizens who are not covered by these measures that we adopted here at HS today. Namely, the secretary of state here when she initially explained why the government rejects these bill proposals, I apologize, that's a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club said two important dates, one date was March 19th when the pandemic was declared and the second date was March 22nd when the earthquake was in Zagreb. Why do I mention these two laws? We can see that this process is extremely turbulent and dynamic and that the government, at least so far, has not shown the right way of planning, planning future activities, but is exclusively used for what is otherwise used when steering or managing, requires some kind of feedback, so on 23rd of the earthquake in Zagreb, the 23rd of March center has made a decision to ban leaving the place of residence. Watch out, places of residence, and then this caused a huge amount of passes that were issued because we have 6756 seats in Croatia. That picture shows how things work out only when they come up, and little is planned in advance. Of course, respecting the fact that it's hard to do things and plan ahead. The second thing that matters, as far as these measures are concerned, was not a great situation before the outbreak in the Republic of Croatia. So, even before the outbreak occurred, 140 thousand people were at the Employment Service, but we must not forget the large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had left the Republic of Croatia before that and hired in other countries. We also see that these citizens are returning to the Republic of Croatia, they have no place to go but to the Employment Service, and since the adoption, since the announcement, since the crisis occurred, we see that a large number of citizens have already ended up at the Employment Office. It is true that these government measures can be re-employed and re-received, this amount provided for in the measures. It is seen here that this is a serious, serious crisis and that what the secretary of state has highlighted, and what is the most important parameter in the whole crisis, which is the time of this crisis, which no one can predict how long it will last. So we have an extremely dynamic and busy period in which entrepreneurs will have to respond to the challenges ahead. That's why I think this set of measures is good, but the government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact, the Ministry of Finance, the minister, will have to respond as soon as possible to what kind of rebalancing is expected of the budget in the future. To that question, I think it's going to be the biggest, the biggest challenge on this issue is going to be. And what is crucial is why these measures should be supported. The government will certainly think of them if it does not support them, because although the announcement of this third set of measures will be directed towards citizens, so that it will not be late, because as I said, citizens who are already at the Employment Service, everyone who, whether earlier, has now gone to the Bureau, all who have had problems serving their obligations, especially loans, there are, of course, students, pensioners who find it difficult today. It's hard for them for a number of reasons, and mostly for the fact that their pensions are small, and then this crisis hit them. For all these citizens, therefore, measures should be taken to facilitate and enable them to live and overcome this difficult situation. When GDP is growing, the biggest benefit is those who are richer, but even when GDP falls, it breaks over the back of the poorest, and therefore these measures are very important. In the last debate there when we had in the INA building I mentioned it, I will mention again, that, not by chance, and the financial sector will not hesitate to come out of this process uncircumcised, and in fact they will try to come out uncircumcised in all ways, and that is what the credit rating agency which has reduced Croatia by one degree. Their assessment that GDP would fall by 5%, this could mean according to that rough, budget that the unemployment rate would be 2.5% at least and that is 50,000 people without jobs and these are the things that we will have to answer because it is about citizens who will be out of work, employers of course who will have to close their trades or their businesses and because of these things we need to think about measures as soon as possible and bring them forward. That's why I think this set of measures is good, we'll support them at the club, and I'm telling the government to think hard if he doesn't want to accept the proposals coming from the opposition, and we see that this is the case, so let the public, as soon as possible, have a set of measures that will allow citizens to overcome this crisis and live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199000	Thank you, too. We ended the discussion on behalf of the clubs. We're continuing an individual debate. I'd like to ask Miss for a little intervention, and then a colleague of mine, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the adoption of this second package, I believe that most of these legal proposals on behalf of the SDP Club will be implemented through the regulation and the former provisions of certain laws. Likewise, certain legislative proposals are not intended to say so to the address to which they might be said, but what I think is also why I came forward for an individual debate and wanted to share with you, and also to point out one problem that first and foremost my colleague Lalovac and I have been talking about in this assembly for a long time, which is a liquidity problem. And this directly binds to this law on credit forgiveness because when we talk about liquidity, then citizens are also liquid and liquid. So, did this legal proposal cover all the obligations that Croatian citizens have. Not only do Croatian citizens have only loans, they also have a commitment to leasing societies and a commitment to card houses, a commitment to insurance companies, a commitment to teleopers and a number of other obligations. Therefore, this law, and I think that the Government is thinking about it, must be complete and must cover all aspects of the obligations that our citizens have. Also, colleagues and colleagues should not forget that over the past few years Croatian entrepreneurs from craftsmen have had an extremely high investment cycle, investing money in economic activities. And many of them have found themselves in this package of measures that the government has proposed, which is to pay salaries and not have to pay pension and health for the simple reason, whether because of the provisions of the headquarters, whether because of this or that reason they simply stopped doing business. And we're talking about a moratorium on loans, so we just have to put all of them in those packages. And that's why the law deserves far wider scope, deserves far more attention for reasons, if we don't approach it that way she thinks we're going to make a lot of trouble. The other thing, from a month ago and a few days ago when there was a law on insurance in the assembly I repeat about the responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. To be honest, I expected that both business banks and Leasing companies and insurance companies would come out with some package of their own when this crisis started with one single goal to protect those who bring them profits. Because they, if those who took up credit with them who made insurance policies or who took something to Leasing if they can't pay them first, put them in trouble. So they should be in the interest of finding that first package. And I think the government is talking in that direction. We have heard that the CNB has already brought about certain changes that they can react to, and if in such a way we could approach this problem which I believe is crucial to the state's funding problem in the coming months, then the law would be comprehensive. And it's a good idea for a colleague from the SDP Club to propose it as a law, but this bill of yours solves only one small segment, just one small segment. Because what difference does it make whether you have to pay the loan or whether you need a war lying to society or whether you need to pay the war to the insurance company, no. It's your obligation that if, and what I think is still important at this point, if you work normally, you do business, you get paid, then this measure doesn't have to apply to you. This measure should apply to those who do not function normally, who do not receive salaries and ultimately we as a social state must take care of our citizens. And I'm saying I think the government will come out with a package that will certainly take care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, without intending to tell you, but colleagues and colleagues you've only dealt with this law one little segment, and that's why I wanted to share this debate with you because I think Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199002	We have one replica, please you can stay. He's a friend of Sagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199003	Dear fellow Shuker, I agree with you, it's true it would be very good for the banks to decide to negotiate with their clients to see which way it goes. However, this so you know from experience doesn't work, it just doesn't work, it's about positions of power, banks are extremely powerful compared to their clients, especially citizens. And actually this, as far as I understand it, is going towards the weakest, the most vulnerable, because with them banks are hardly going to negotiate. It is therefore necessary to define legal frameworks to create moratories on commitments, but not in such a way as to further accumulate interest later, but to simply buy that time for these people, so that while they overcome the crisis, they can continue to serve their obligations. Of course you're right when you talk about other obligations, like, according to the Leasing societies and everyone else, but I think it's from the position that it's hard to expect that banks will work that way. They still need to be legally forced to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199004	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199005	Comrade Sagar, that you listened carefully to what they said, I said that legally, if we need to, we need to solve everything. And the normal thing is that we have to think about those who are the most vulnerable, that we have to react here, but I repeat, everyone in their segment is important. And I guess the banks burned after that big crisis 10 years ago and how great they are. The placements had to be converted into non-refundable claims and that they would think and think about how to save those who ultimately bring them profits and repay loans and pay interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199006	Thank you. The next debate is a debate from fellow Pernar. And a little intervention from my colleague Pernar. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199007	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The solutions this government has for the current crisis are not adequate and will not solve it, and I will explain why. The main problem is with loans, by putting on a moratorium, the cause of the problem is not solved. The problem is that these loans will ultimately need to be paid back and that many people living on tourism during the summer months are expensive money to pay off the loan for the rest of the year. However, in this case, what will happen? Moratorium will last, for example. For the next few months, they'll run out of money from the season, it's just a season, for example. failed, which is very likely to happen and suddenly end this extraordinary state of Beroshevo. Yeah, this isn't gonna last forever. And what happens when it goes away? And then the banks will say now, look, there's no state of emergency, the loans have to go back, and the revenues from this summer are gone. Where are these people gonna get your loans back from? They've got nowhere to go. Another problem, all the time this moratorium, interest is accounted for. So are you aware of what that means? Where are people gonna get those interest back from? The legislator doesn't care. Here's an identical example of the work. The government says we're introducing a moratorium to execution. And what does that mean in practice? Well, in practice, it means that the same scheme goes on the same way. It's not going to stop now, it's just going to bring down that waterfall, as soon as these measures are cut off, and the reason for this whole executive hell is that the performances are actually given to public notebooks, which they can account for whatever fees and what ultimately, you have enormous costs of the execution, so people don't necessarily kill the debt for water of 200 kuna, but they get killed by the costs of the execution. They're getting killed by the fee that FINA's taking. FINA is taking an enormous fee. Did the government solve that question? No, I don't. The government neither solves the issue of interest, or there are no interest moratories, nor does it think about what will be left of income with people this summer, and when the moratorium passes, it will have to. Yes, when the moratorium passes and this state of emergency passes, it will have to continue to repay the loan, it has nowhere to go. The government doesn't care about that. This solution that the government has, you know what these solutions are? These are short-term solutions. Maybe the government has a solution to the election of parliamentarys at 9:00. I mean, what's it gonna be in 10, 11, 12, 1, 2, 3. Mesa, 5 months. Next year? And the government doesn't think about it. This is one crazy way, this policy has no vision whatsoever. Also, there's one more thing I want to say. If the population is not divided into young and old, both healthy and sick, and it will go with a general quarantine story that is being imposed on us at all times, it will take a very long time for a critical number of people in the population to get infected and get over the crown. Yeah, that's the problem. It's going to take a very long time, instead of being, because young people, they have no mortality at all, 0.1%. Instead of allowing young people to get over, get immunity, a critical part of the population to have resistance to this virus and end with quarantine measures, quarantine measures will be delayed indefinitely. And you know what kind of solution they're going to offer? Then he'll offer as a solution, what? The vaccine. And then they'll tell my people, we have to protect the weaker. But you all need to be vaccinated. And what about those who refuse to vaccinate? He'll be in trouble again. I don't see where this policy leads, I can't understand people who support the general instead of selective quarantine. I don't know how many more months they're planning on keeping the whole people in this agony because people are mentally firing and they can't take this condition anymore. But nobody cares about that, and half the country's on the minimal, which is what those who are unemployed and who were planning to do, seasons, have nothing to live on, so nobody cares. The state doesn't regulate it at all, I asked Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic, what about those who don't have a fee from the Stock Exchange? What do they live on now that they can't find a job? And Plenkovic says, Alardovic will find a solution. I don't see him yet. When will this solution come? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199008	Thank you, colleague Pernar. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Sasa Djujic, please a little intervention, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199009	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues from the SDP. So here's how much the government is interested in our measures and our proposals, this shows that there aren't any MPs in the hall right now except for the SDPs. So, they're full of the mouth of the community and all that... Now you're in, now you're in [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you're in. ... [[Intruder: Mr. Pernar.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199010	Mr. Pernar, Mr. Pernar Mr. Djujic, Mr. Pernar. [[You're in from the outside now.]] Mr. Pernar Mr. Pernar. ... [[Intruder: Yes.]] Mr. Pernar, a reminder [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm not gonna throw him out, but I'm giving him a warning, this behavior is not appropriate. [[Don't kick him out because then he'll say you threw him out on purpose so I can say there's no one but us.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199011	Here, I welcome fellow Pernar who just returned and fellow Shucker who has now entered, thank you very much. So what I'm saying is, this is already the 3rd package of measures SDP is proposing. 3. package, so after the first two of which none of them were adopted, none of them were accepted. So we propose certain solutions and certain measures that the Government then partially accepts after a while. The same thing is with this package. So here and just now, my colleague Schucker said in his debate that we're covering a small part, a small segment of the problem when we're talking about a moratorium on loans, that we haven't fully worked it out and worked it out, let's just say that the government is going to cover that part in its future action, and it's going to work it out together. But he didn't tell his colleague Shuker that our proposals, for example, were not working. He didn't say, because he knows that he's part part of it, part of it's good. I listened well, I heard it all right. Well, what's the problem, you know what my colleague Shucker is? We are proposing these packages because the ruling HDZ has not included the opposition since the first day of the conversation. You didn't turn it on. You can nod all you want. You're not. You are sitting alone with yourself and this second package of government measures that was now, which was delayed in part you presented to your coalition partners, and you did not find it appropriate to invite opposition representatives to this conversation, you did not. Because you don't need us, because you don't care what we have to say, and that shows this hall here today. Empty, just you fellow Shucker, here you are, and colleague Pernar. And my colleague Pernar. ... So when I don't have anyone, how am I supposed to, what am I gonna mention about Sanader when he's not here? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What am I going to say? Who? I mean, what am I going to say, here, a colleague I don't know, who? Who? You tell me, fellow Shuker, when you're alone. There's no one here. Nobody cares. The SDP is a colleague here, is, is, we've had enough. So, look, we suggest, you don't listen, you don't care. Another thing again, so it's not the devil that none of our proposals are right. We are in this package of measures, I am now not going to enter into each individual, but colleagues Bernardic and Lalovac said in the introduction, this is the third package that includes citizens, citizens who are also the most socially endangered of whom the government has not considered at the moment. I'm not saying he won't think in his third package. But I don't understand why the opposition isn't involved. You say, "Here's a good suggestion, and you didn't even bother to fix it." So today we wouldn't be discussing this or counting here if Prime Minister Plenkovic's first day had called all the presidents of the opposition parliamentary parties and said, let's hear, let's all heads together, who has any suggestions. So maybe one part of our measures would be included already in the government's package and instead, and all the time you're talking here, make suggestions, thank you, but that's not enough. It's not good, but we're going alone. We only represent coalition partners. Gentlemen, this concerns the entire country, both left and right and all citizens, not just HDZ and its coalition partners. And for that, here we appeal to you, let us in, so we can't wait until you remember something, until you remember citizens with credits. Well, we had to propose a law. We don't have another model. Our representatives didn't sit with the government's representatives at the meeting so they could make some kind of suggestion there, so here you are, fellow Shuker, you complete it and you say, and you made a good proposal. Here, there's only the ones with the loans, there's no lying, there's no insurance houses, there's no such thing as that, so we could do a whole proposal together. And this is how we have to make suggestions when you don't listen to us, you don't want to hear us. You're saying it's not time for politicizing, and it's yesterday as a charger. Plenkovic, Sanader, Bozinovic, in his uniform on the fifth, 5th day in a row, calls counterpart Bernardic and SDP. That's, what's that? That's not politicizing? You've got suggestions, you've got suggestions, we'll respect everything, you don't respect anything today. You haven't accepted any of our amendments today. So what exactly are all our suggestions stupid? Well, I didn't realize it from your discussions that we're proposing nonsense or stupidity, but even praise it, but look, what, we're enough for ourselves. That's not good. We're not at war, but we're not in any ordinary condition. And not to mention, this session procedure, first in that building of INA over there, and today here and limiting replicas and speeches, I hope that from the 15th time we get back to our building things will go back to normal. I don't have any more time, but I expect we'll get back to normal and start listening to us as an opposition. Because, look, this situation will pass, I hope as soon as possible. Maybe in a month, maybe in two. Maybe in 3 and then they'll [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to file accounts. [[Intruder: Stay here.]] So it won't be binco Support, we can all the time... [[We have 3 replicas.]] Okay, thank you, here, just to finish the thought. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199012	Thank you. A colleague of Hajdukovic's. Here's the first replica, the second one's a colleague of Shucker's, then a colleague of Jagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199013	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djujic, you're talking about a call for community, this lack of respect for the opposition, so I'd just like to go over there and say that HDZ calls for consensus and for community only when it suits them. And you know how they experience that unity and consensus? "Here you can back us up." And we are not criticizing or criticizing, nor criticizing, but making concrete suggestions. Yeah, maybe some of our proposals aren't perfect, but that's why, in the debate, we should all come up with the best proposals to protect our citizens. And.../incomprehensible... when we do that to HDZ, they reject it. And therefore, I fear that these measures will eventually turn out to be flawed in a lot of things, that they will change many times, that they will contribute to the uncertainty of the labour market and the market in general in the economy and we will actually produce exactly the counterproductive effect of what we wanted, which is to protect citizens, workers, but also entrepreneurs and economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199014	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199015	Comrade Hajdukovic, of course, that all our measures are not perfect, such as the Government's all measures. But two heads are smarter than one, and that's what we've been trying to do all along to deal with this crisis, not to have the HDZ running its story. Well, look, they dropped the Parliament, that debate in the INA about that package last time was nothing, what pro-forma, out there at the President of the Parliament saying you have the right to 2 replicas per club. So they don't even want to listen to us. They won't listen to us today. So it's not going anywhere. So, we should, this is not a HDZ crisis and its coalition partners, but all of Croatia's citizens, and we must have the opportunity to talk together and all the best, every party, every political option that has in its ranks to make it easier for the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199016	Thank you. Next replica, fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199017	Thank you very much. Well, it's not good to say things that aren't right. I'll use the softest expression, if my colleague Bauk were here, he could confirm to you that the Prime Minister has summoned all these leaders and opposition parties and clubs and has exposed them to measures to discuss. So much for that, that's the facts. Secondly, I think my personal debate today was about discussing the subject. Third thing, colleague Djujic, we've known each other for a long time. I was expecting, since I'm the only MP from the opposition here, that you're going to try to put in some arguments to convince me that something is not contained in the existing laws, that I did something wrong. You've been talking all along about how someone like this, how you're somebody like that. Okay, that's what you said, that's what your colleagues will say, but explain why your laws are good, I even said that one law and missed a target because those funds can't pay off what they're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199018	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199019	And fellow Shuker, I expected you to convince us why our laws are not good and that the government did better than us and that we should give up. But on the contrary, you said that one segment did well in this moratorium law on loans, so what do I have to explain to you that this is a good move? Well, you know it better than I do, you said it yourself. In fact, you've spread the story that we haven't covered the Leasing Houses, that we haven't included insurance companies, so here's what we talked about before, we could have given one quality whole law together. And when you said we didn't sit down, that we didn't, that, uh, Comrade Bauk, here he came now, that the Prime Minister invited them to that first package of measures that the entrepreneurs and all welcomed to the knife together. This last vote we voted here today at noon you presented to coalition partners on Thursday and on Friday came to debate after a hasty procedure in HS, i.e. in the basement of the INA on 2 representatives per club. And we couldn't make a contribution, no one listened to us, no amendment was adopted, today Here, who's listening to us? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Who are we talking to?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199020	Thank you. Last replica, colleague Sagar Comrade Sagar, here you go. [[Intruder: My emotions are working.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199021	Dear colleague Djujic. So, you said it right. The situation is quite complex, and when you say that we're going back to normal, then you should keep in mind that this return will be extremely difficult. It is clear that there will be a danger to the health of citizens and that at that moment citizens will start living normally. But back to those positions that weren't good before this crisis, I'm talking about economic situations where citizens were and the economy is going to be difficult to achieve, let alone what we planned before this crisis in terms of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. So it's very important that the government listens to you now, that it really listens to all the good advice because at this point we're just responding to what's happening right now. We are not thinking about what will happen in the future, and in these measures there are many proposals that will affect the future, and so we need to think about what will be in the future because we already need to know what it is, what kind of rebalancing the government will have to propose soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199022	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199023	My debate was like this because five minutes is really little to explain and to explain each of these measures. I think some of them are making their own argument. But why was I talking about this debate? That's because I'm afraid, and I see it, that the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic don't care what we think or care about. There's one proof today. So today he's talking about this law on tracking. He talks, he says, well, you gave all the data to Facebook and Google, so why don't you give it to HDZ? Why don't you give us, too, even so they follow you, so let's follow you. And then the journalists tell them, but it wasn't adopted in the Parliament, today it's, it's a decision to go to another reading, then he says, and well, it's not today, it's going to be adopted next week. So here's how HDZ sees us as the most representative or legislative body in the country. And for that reason I appeal once again to HDZ and to the government, please include representatives of the opposition, listen to us, tell us, this is stupid, this is smart, but we are going together to look for solutions for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199024	Thank you. Next individual debate... The next individual debate is a debate by colleagues from Peja Grbina, here are some interventions. Here you go, buddy Grbin, here you go, thank you. Careful fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199025	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will concentrate on two things that matter to me personally, and I also believe that they are important to a large number of Croatian citizens, and one especially to people from the area I come from, from Istria and the entire Adriatic coast. The first thing is, of course, a moratorium on loans. Dear fellow Shuker, saying just before me, said the law proposed by the moratorium on loans was missing. My answer is, okay, but unlike the government's proposal, at least he exists. The government has not proposed such a missing proposal, the government has proposed nothing. The government has only left it to banks and bankers that, on the basis of their own decision, their own goodwill, their own profit assessment, solve the problem of postponing the loan with their debtors. And what does it look like in practice? A few people came to me, for example, one lady has a loan, she's been paying him off for a while, 3,000 kuna, exactly 2700 kn per month. She will have to pay 6,000 kuna additional interest for the six-month delay, 6,000 kuna. 1,000 kunas have calculated the monthly bank's interest. A gentleman contacted me last year who took a loan, also at war about 3,000 kuna per month, but because he took the loan last year at this point mostly pays interest, and the principal will come in line for some better days. He will postpone by 18,000 kuna for the six months he would have paid during that period of 6 months, so to get a delay in the payment of 18,000 kuna which he will definitely have to pay, to him, the interest for those 6 months exceeds the amount of 12,000 kuna. 12,000 kuna additional interest will be paid to the bank on his loan. And you know what the worst part of it still has to be solemnized by the credit contract annex, and as an amount of course, it will account for the full amount of credit, which means that it will still have 1,500 – 2,000 kuna. So he's going to be spending six months on 15 thousand kunas. For a delay in payment of 18,000 kuna, they will pay 15,000 kuna. With all due respect, it's neither moral nor fair, nor useful. The delay, without the simultaneous delay of payment of interest or the release of interest payments, is not intended. It is only temporary assistance to citizens and citizens who will pay you the same citizens and citizens extremely expensive one day when they start returning credit. And what else is going to happen? Given the duration of only 6 months, and it is evident that many will not return to the position of paying off the loan even longer after that since it only lasts 6 months it does not achieve real effects. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, if you want to help Croatian citizens and citizens, Croatian society and the Croatian economy you do not have to accept the SDP proposal, I support what my colleague Schuker said, make it comprehensive, refer it to the procedure, I will first, I will raise my hand to him first, but you must, you must suspend the course of interest during the delay, otherwise there is no purpose. The other problem I want to talk about is the renter's problem. Household owners do not pay income tax according to actual income, but pay it according to the flat-rate rate determined according to the number of bearings in the frameworks of the prescribed law. Last year we raised the amount of sheets, we made it possible for local self-government units to go up to 1,500 kuna instead of a maximum of 300 kuna earlier, I'm talking about income tax rate, to make it quite clear. So we increased the amount multiplely and it was introduced to pay for additional beds, which was not previously the case. At present, as far as I'm aware, most or almost all of the shoppers have been delayed. However, it is quite clear, it is clear that income from the tourist season in these three months, so 4, 5 and 6, and probably not even afterwards. The delay is fine for now, but please, before the period on which the delay is given, bring a measure of the write-off of the flat-rate income tax from the tenant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199026	Thank you. Stay here please, you have one replica. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199027	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, I had to intervene because my colleague Peja is a lawyer, and I wouldn't want to give him a lecture, but when you have a loan, then you get a payment plan. In the payment plan you have a monthly war that contains war and contains interest and a bank if you do not need to pay the principal, but you have to pay the corresponding part of the interest and that is what we all need to talk about why I said it wasn't just loans to Croatian citizens and businessmen that it has full, but such a figure when you bring it out it's totally incorrect because you're not talking about the same thing, it's not interest on funds that haven't been paid for 3 months. I repeat, when you raise a loan, when you enter a Leasing relationship or anything else you get a payment plan and it is clearly based on the law you know what it contains. So this information of yours is not correct, you got it wrong, and you unfortunately misread it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199028	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My esteemed colleague Shuker didn't get it from me, it was obtained by citizens from banks asking for a postponement of the loan. It was given to the citizens of the banks, the citizens got this bill, and the banks want to charge them for it. And by the way, I know very well that there's interest on the capital. If the loan payment started last year, then you and I know very well that the principal remained intact. And that six months of paying interest on that principal will be very difficult for whoever's taking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199030	Stay still here was still a replica of a fellow Laloveca.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199031	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms I see you mentioned the tenants, but certainly what should be noted is that the government has unfortunately not thought about those who are in the lease of business premises, which are now closed business spaces and when there is no, means the contract between the tenant and the tenant is now zero kuna. However, there is no clear answer from the tax administration or the Government whether they will be charged at market value for this lease, so all these people who rent business premises will receive a fee for either VAT or income tax. So here you're talking about one category, but I think this category, too, means that they're renting business premises so that in 3 or 6 months, VAT or income taxes don't come out, especially when the market doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199032	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199033	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague, but first of all, he would direct his own representatives to the government. Last week I spoke about the problem of renting a business space and there are two problems. The first is the one you addressed, which is the fact that many tenants have freed their tenants from the rent because they are aware that they need good, good people. At the same time, however, regardless of the amount not paid by the lease, the tax administration accounts for the value added tax, but also the income tax or profit tax, and that by assessment. It's not right, and I think the ministry should address it in the relevant tax laws. However, there is another problem, and I ask you to transfer this to the Minister of State Property, which is the problem that there is no possibility in the Law on the Hire of Business Space that there is no possibility that, any state, any local self-government of freedom of the tenants from the obligation to pay or to reduce that obligation. So... We have to change that law, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199034	Thank you. Comrade Matteljan, here you go, no need for intervention, colleague Grbin didn't touch the work space, but fine, if you want then... Well, fellow Mattelian, Mathelan. Damir Mateljan, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Secretary of State. The SDP shows itself in this crisis situation, acts as a responsible and serious party. On the one hand, this is affirmative, so we have accepted in two rounds a package of measures that the Government has sent to debate in this House, which concerns helping those who are at risk of spreading the COVID-19 virus. On the other hand, we're bringing, we're proposing our own measures that unfortunately come across something like this. So, uh, the government's self-interest, the self-interest of ruling MPs actually tells us what the government thinks about these measures, or what they think about the SDP and what they feel unfortunately about the opposition. The government when it also adopted that first set of measures, including the law that we had not debated, is the Civil Protection Act, saying, so on these measures, the Government has also urged the local state to also plant its financial backs and that it is also the local state that will adapt some of its measures to help all those, whether they are citizens or those companies that have died in this crisis. The local state has also done so in a way that it could, freeing the municipal fee, the communal contribution itself, paying the market price of kindergarten so that they can survive, however, what the government did not say, what is in some way not being said, and in this House I have not heard, let alone in the media, and that is that it is, in fact, with those first and other measures that the local state has just planted its back for reasons, because that financial burden on those measures that go as free entrepreneurs is just directed at the only tax, on the only real tax which is exclusively a tax belonging to local self-government, which is income tax. Without income tax, which accounts for almost 70% of all original incomes from local self-government, local self-government can survive this month to two days. Those who are with... Which so far seemed to us to be highly developed areas, won't last a month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is very important to tell people that this one will not have preschool education, that their infrastructure local will be able to disintegrate, that there will be no public lighting, that there will be no public transport, or people need to tell, that these measures will partially save the economy and that they will completely destroy the level of local self-government that we have achieved so far. It will simply be so if we don't come up with compensatory measures that no one talks about, and I understand why no one talks about compensatory measures because there is no money for compensation measures. So when we talk about planting the backs of local self-government, then there are things that don't have just financial weight, but also that organisational weight. The famous name around the pass. Finally, the public and the government have realized that there are over 300 units of local self-government that are simply not functionally whole and cannot function in a way that in that unit local self-government citizens can achieve both rights and all their therefore things they must do, such as, the most banal going to the bank, to the post office, to the pharmacy because you have municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have no banks, no post office, no pharmacy, no elementary school or anything else. And this depends not only on their size or their critical mass, but on their capacitation, both to people and to their financial capacitation. I don't know how much time I have left, so I'm going to figure it out. So usually after all these crises we like to go out with that sentence that's total flossula, which is, we're going to come out of this crisis even stronger and stronger. [[/Intruder: 15.]] We won't. So we'll get out of this crisis weaker and worse. But I hope at least So wiser that what concerns [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The local self-government will go into this reform of the local self-government reform. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199036	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Gordan Maras, colleague Maras, come in. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199037	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. I must admit that, I have, I feel strange in this hall and all this together when a man looks at you a little bit sorry and people who work here in the organization and people from HRT because you have a feeling that this is being done as a tower at the moment of the whole situation, or the system of decision-making in the Republic of Croatia, where we, as the Croatian Parliament, are moving from the hall to the hall from Šubićeva to INU, might now be able to go to another hall, in another town, I think that the institution as a Croatian Parliament must participate more and decide in the whole crisis that is happening in the Republic. So, if as a state we do not respect our institutions, if we have a meeting president who here says that the Rules of Procedure are 100% non-respectable, I think it is one of the most recent statements I have heard in the Croatian Parliament or on the other hand says about 129 votes, it sends you a message in fact that the Croatian Parliament as an institution at the moment seems to bother the HDZ, which is also seen from the overall behaviour, work, and at the end of the day and the situation which is now the government in this Chamber, where there is usually no one else. And on the other hand, discussing such important issues in these circumstances sounds pointless, because you see that you're proposing things, very serious things. Because when you propose that citizens do not pay for a year, they have a moratorium on loans it is a very serious thing for Croatian citizens, perhaps of crucial importance to survive the next year, which will be marked by crisis, loss of work, loss of income from tourism and all that is, then I think that such a topic is shown respect for both Croatian citizens and parliament to discuss under normal conditions in front of parliamentary representatives that this topic is accepted with respect and that we eventually come together to a certain solution. Because if the opposition supports the government's measures, so what is not logical is that instead of Vice-President Sanader giving lessons to opposition deputies he takes into account what the opposition is proposing. And the other thing when we suggest also one measure, means that when it comes to parents who at the moment have a problem with organising their lives in general how to educate children, how to stay at home, how to go to work, how to combine it all together, you can't use it in the most part of the grandparents' cases because if parents do, they're exposed, so they can pass on to their children, and then their parents can't look after their children because they can get infected too, so they're huge problems. And if, at that point, we suggest that we take a model by which one parent can stay at home and pay for sick leave, as the Health Insurance Act covers some other examples, so that's a very important topic. It deserves to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, it deserves to be heard, it deserves to be considered and perhaps accepted. We can't accept the situation where the secretary of state comes and says he's not authorized to talk about it here because like he's not the finance minister or not the prime minister, they're the only ones who can. Well, we don't live in a monarchy, where one person decides what can be done, what can't be done. Although it looks like some of them are just fine with you. We live in a parliamentary democracy where parliament plays its part and I am dissatisfied with how it all works now, and I must admit that I will talk about it in the future and when we return to the Hall of the Croatian Parliament and appeal here and to the people sitting in the presidency of the assembly, and I will certainly speak to the representative of our club to simply not allow such a situation. So we live in parliamentary democracy, we're responsible people, we can contribute to this situation as painlessly as possible for our fellow citizens. We don't agree with the statements he made before Mr. Pernar I think that this time we're fighting a crisis is good, that we're all satisfied that we have very few infected and deceased in relation to other countries and we support it and we will continue to support it if it works in a quality way and on the other hand if we can participate We want to participate, we want to enable solutions that will help Croatian citizens to get through this crisis as well as we can and the more painlessly we can not do anything to get Croatian citizens to live normally as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199038	Stay here, please. We have two replicas. He's my first colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199039	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I also think that measures and what the government is doing at this point are good and that it gives good results, and we, with our SDP, as a constructive opposition with our proposals just want it to be better, especially with this third package of measures. We are thinking about the time that comes after this health crisis, meaning in a few months, because we, with our package of measures, have included exactly those citizens that the Government has not included in its activities so far. And that's why I think we should maybe listen a little bit more. And as for the functioning and work of the assembly, I agree with you and I will talk about it all the time and keep warning about it and I want once again here to underline the line that these 15 days, 20 as far as we're not in the building of the Croatian Parliament, but in the basement of the INE there are no days we joined in the order that we have the same rules. So, not to disrespect the Rules of Procedure, but there are no agreements, because today it's worth one thing, tomorrow it's worth something else, then the day after tomorrow it's worth the third, then one chairman respects one rule, the other, and that's not good. We have a Rules of Procedure which is a sacred letter to us in all situations, if anything needs to be changed, then we need to change the Rules of Procedure and we all need to adapt to that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199040	Okay, thank you, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199041	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. I think that if we function as a rule or not, by 100% of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djujic has taken 1% of the time limit on the replica, so anyone can choose for themselves if the rules don't apply to everyone. And on this side, I ask you to pass it on to the President of the Croatian Parliament that we want to function normally and that all of this together is quite nothing and that in some way Croatian citizens deserve to do it in some normal conditions, to transfer their problems, to try to solve their problems and to contribute together to this crisis as soon as possible and to allow Croatian citizens to have confidence in the institutions that represent them. The message that none sits here except Mr. Shucker of HDZ MPs is a message that automatically denys the call on joint action by HDZ [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely visible from what's going on here. [[Intruder: Next replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.]] So... HDZ with a figure in its pocket calls all opposition parties... [[/Intruder: Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199042	Comrade Maras, please. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199043	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I absolutely agree with you in your qualifications that parliament should behave in crisis situations. For example, the Hungarians had a very good solution before this happened, namely that Orban received such broad powers. According to their Constitution, in the event of an emergency, parliament is constantly sitting, no one can disband it and every 15 days the government should submit a report to Parliament which, on the basis of this report, then extends or reduces, or extends the state of emergency. The role of Parliament here should be crucial precisely because of what we talked about. Some measures are imperfect and just in the discussion with more ideas and from multiple sides and more angles, we can come up with quality solutions. One of these is the staying of one parent at home and because of small children and because of the risk of transmission of infections, so we also protect the health of the population, protect jobs because the state jumps in where it can and we try to help as much as possible. Our citizens to adapt to the new creation [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a situation. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Hajdukovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199044	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199045	Thank you. I absolutely agree with you, and I think that in this situation the most we could do is help us, given that hundreds of citizens who share their problems with us every day are talking to us. But I ask you, if we are calling for joint action and unity, where is Jandrokovic now? Where's Branko Bacic? Where are all these HDZ people who need to discuss with us the proposals that help Croatian citizens? Di, where's Ante Sanader who called the opposition SDP yesterday if he hadn't suggested anything constructive? Where are these people, why aren't they taking part here with us in this debate? Why don't they say if our proposal is good or bad? Can it or cannot it be applied? Which is why it does not allow Croatian citizens to go peacefully to Easter and not think about paying off their loans and not leave them at the mercy of their banks. Believe me, if we don't set the rules the way To be for all [[Intruder: Time.]] identically, that people know transparently what their right is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Which is what it isn't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Banks will do so in his arrangement. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] I think that It's not correct and yes [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] We should put it that way. [[Intruder: Comrade Hajdukovic, please prepare for discussion.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199046	Thank you. Please, intervention, colleague Hajdukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199047	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Here you are Mr. Hajdukovic, please, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. Here you are, colleague Hajdukovic.]] Well, unfortunately, this crisis has shown how unprepared we are for these situations in every sense. In economics, I would dare say politically, which, we are witnessing right now, organisational, logistics, social, etc., etc. Let's just take the farm. This crisis has shown our agricultural production on its knees, which is simply a victim of many years of bad policy, poor direction, non-strategic thinking. That's right, so unfortunately we're victims and in a political sense because we don't have enough culture politically to listen to everything, all the suggestions, all the problems on the table and try to deal with these problems together. I fear that HDZ's unity is only, that is, their calls for unity are only when it suits them and that their perception of community and consensus is based on "that is what you can support us, we allow you to support us". But it's not the point, it's not the purpose of parliamentary democracy. Just because there are more of us from different parts of Croatia, from different segments of life in Croatia, we can give better suggestions, we can warn of some of the problems that perhaps the Government or we as legislators have initially missed and may warn of some things that may later have serious repercusions. One of them is definitely paying off citizens' loans. Why? Many were financially planning differently, things that are unfortunately very difficult, since this epidemic, I read in one medium that about a thousand people get fired daily. If that's true, it's a terrible piece of information. In the meantime, there was also an earthquake in Zagreb, so many families in Zagreb are exposed to an additional unplanned cost of housing adaptation, if they were lucky that their apartments were still useful. For all these people, the postponement of payments, or the moratorium on the payment of loans per year, will mean little space for, to catch air, to be financially consolidated and to continue to pay their commitments. Without that beginning, I'm afraid it'll be very difficult for them, that many won't be able to repay their debts, many will lose their jobs in the meantime, we don't know how further the pandemic situation will move, as far as the economy is concerned, so we're trying to solve this equation with all the unknowns so that at least one acquaintance can be introduced into it. Also, no one has mentioned seasonal employees except for our measures so far, the 3rd package of measures. Or permanent, so-called. Permanent season. There are slightly less than 6 thousand in Croatia. These are people who, during the season, make about 6 to 7 months enough to survive the whole year and thus service their debts and all the other financial obligations they have. Since nothing's happened since the season, we need to think about protecting these exactly, slightly less than 6,000 people. If we're counting on it to be 6,000 families, then you can imagine how much repercussion could be if we don't adequately protect them. Also, people who have been fired as a consequence of the crown will be a major problem or we need to help them and take care of them, help them to stop their feet and serve them in their short - term financial obligations if God gives them no credit. Also, no one mentions employees who are at the Bureau who have no compensation. What's the number of people like that? So they have no right to any compensation for various reasons, which now because of a crisis that will become and grow into an economic crisis have no right and have no perspective of finding a job soon. It's the same segment of people we have to worry about and who we have to help. Therefore, as I have said, our measures may not be perfect, neither are the government's measures, but I believe that with one different approach, in a broader dialogue and in a dialogue with more respect, above all, from the ruling to the opposition, there would be much more quality proposals. Because I am afraid that these government proposals will need to be corrected more than once, that they will be subject to quite frequent changes and that this will create additional uncertainty among citizens but also in the economy because of the constant changes in market conditions, whether labour, whether the economy, or markets in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199048	Please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199049	My colleague Hajdukovic and I, with this proposal, are essentially concerned about citizens who have not yet felt this crisis. So, you said yourself when this health problem goes down for, we hope as soon as possible that a part of the people except for those who are unemployed and who live on the edge of poverty and those who stood up to yesterday will feel this crisis very well. And now let's say I set an example, today at the 2nd month of this year the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was about 6,500 kuna, I'm going to stick to those figures. So someone who had 6,500 kuna before this pandemic, took out a loan, planned his own life, got hit by this situation, and, say, most employers put these workers on a minimum or these 4,000 kuna due to government measures. So these workers lost 2,000, 2,500 kuna, and they'll only feel that later. This moratorium on loans means a lot to them, and it makes the situation much easier because other than preserving jobs, we encourage and spending citizens right now. in this way that these funds can be spent. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199050	Thank you, colleague Giujic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199051	I agree, fellow Djujic, that the crisis will end today, the consequences will be great and long-term. So we can't predict how many more people will lose their jobs, unfortunately, how much pay cuts, purchasing power, if it comes to question and swearing courses, it's also going to be a big problem. So there's a lot of problems waiting for us. But the same thing that's important for us to point out when we talk about our moratorium law, I think it's that those who have a good financial situation don't have to use this law. So those who have regular incomes, which will continue to have regular incomes, can choose to continue to service their debts to banks. That way, they won't be cut off as far as the payment plan or the end of their commitment to the bank is concerned, as they planned, but unfortunately I'm afraid they'll be in your minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199052	Thank you. I would like a little intervention and an individual debate from colleague Karolina Leaković. Here you go. Last reported debate, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, if we are in a crisis without precedent, and we are in the midst of the worst yet to come, and then, at least economically, then from the government and the political and economic elite as residents, it is certain that we have the right to expect solutions that will benefit the largest number of people. And these people who live on their work, not on capital, not on rent, not on inheritance, not on the accumulated, but on people, and these are the ones that live in Croatia the most, in fact, on their fair salary regardless of whether it is earned in trade, in the food industry, in transport, in services, in schools, in the hospital or in the office. If we work indefinitely on a particular one, then our contracts are extended every, every few months, maybe not always in accordance with the law, and we know that there are such situations too. He knew that the government declaredly insists on community, it's not a new word discovered, but it seems to me that for this government, a new word has been discovered, or one that is very often in the use of last weeks of solidarity. We're saying that the health crisis, or the government, is saying that we need to overcome the health crisis with common forces, appeal to the responsibility of each and every one of us, and I can certainly agree with that and I can support it. Of course, if we are not deprived of human rights in this government’s once unnecessarily restrictive decisions and, of course, if we are not deliberately deceived and tried to hide some information. We know that we have recently had such a case with the purchase of medical equipment, and we have had one case with a secret meeting in the government between the prime minister, the culture minister and the editor-in-chief of several media houses on which, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not want to present details and did not answer any questions about the meeting. The public and journalists must never, nor in this situation, remain deprived of the answers to questions about how decisions are made, why the main editors of some media houses were invited to a meeting in the government and what they were promised, to report on government measures that they would receive in return. So, unlike this solidarity when it comes to the health crisis and the epidemiological measures, when it comes to economics, I think it's hard to agree that we're all on the same boat, that it's the same for all of us, that the crisis on all of us is the same, that we all have to tighten the belt, that either we're all gonna challenge and save private entrepreneurs and their property, or we're all going to fail, and that it's not the time to question each other, and it's especially not the time to insist on working rights, on collective contracts, on collective agreements, on coefficients, says cut yourself immediately and now without any renunciation, etc., in other words socialize or share private losses, and we don't touch private profits. It has already been said today on several occasions that we have not seen how the banks have reacted in this crisis whether they have submitted part of the burden. They did not bear part of the burden, however, we saw that the owners of private companies better sent their workers and most of their workers to the stock market immediately, although perhaps they should not have done so. If we ever find out, so what is the number of those who immediately sent workers to the stock market and before measures, we will, of course, ask the Ministry of Labour and HZZ. We know there's no write-off for citizens, no lifting unnecessary banking obligations, no abandonment of performances, no appraisals. We still haven't actually made a decision about parents who care for children who don't go to school and kindergarten to determine what SDP is looking for today. We also did not make a decision that even now unemployed who have worked less than 9 months in the past 24 months have the right to compensation, this should certainly be taken into account. And there are a lot of problems that people warn us about, so I will take advantage of the opportunity with us of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health to warn him of a letter of 17 March which she sent to the Ministry, directed the Croatian Association for Rare Diseases, which warns of a special situation involving employees who are at the same time patients with autoimmune diseases, parents of chronically ill children who raise their voices and warn that they have to work, and they are very exposed to the group, so I call on the ministry to take care of their health. Ideas for the State to be a cornerstone of economic policy, economic activity to use this crisis to change the dominant political economic paradigm, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, we have yet to hear and I appeal in this regard. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199054	Thank you. And my last debate with my colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199055	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last few weeks a paradigm of relations with state institutions has changed. The rule so far is to say so to the public or most citizens in some vague situation between institutions and individuals as a rule stood aside from individuals. And lately, in this vague situation between individuals and institutions, they tend to side with the institution especially if it's the police about healthcare professionals or about someone from these now we call it the more popular service represented by the state. It is good when institutions gain greater trust from citizens, but it is never good to give non-critical trust to anyone, to either individual or to institutions. Therefore, they should always be questioned and treated critically. One of the equative examples was the police's conduct in the case of two citizens in Split who wanted to take a walk, and then there was, I would say training, unnecessary training of strictness against individuals, and there was a journalist there and it became generally known. We have then a reverse case, so in front of a church also in Split police showed much more tolerance, patience towards a priest who invited people to mass, and when the officers came to warn them that it was a violation of the headquarters's recommendations then he fell into an argument with a policeman that a police officer had finally had to interpret something from a religion, it was perhaps excessive tolerance, but somewhere between this situation the increased power of the institution I would say in relation to the rights of the individual should find a good balance. This is why it is good for us to talk about this in the Croatian Parliament live at the thematic session of the Committee on Human Rights. So, on one portal came an article about what all citizens ask the attorney general, I wouldn't say that it was an explanation of litigation with state institutions, it was really about certain individual problems of life that people came across because of this epidemic and the rapid ones, but when the measures were faster then they weren't enough, there wasn't enough thought about possible side effects that I believe had time to think about them further to be avoided. What do all the citizens actually write to the D.A.? So most often it's about people who got fired, and for various reasons they can't exercise their rights as unemployed people. Then it is about students who, because of their inability to work during the epidemic, cannot be supported and asked the competent authorities to assist students in the form of a delay in the payment of tuition. Afterwards, citizens have problems communicating with HZZ, and related to the exercise of the right for the unemployed. Most often they fail to obtain feedback on who is processing or their demands and fail to exercise rights. They are particularly numerous citizens who have jobs but who fail to work because of their obligations to young children in circumstances where kindergartens and schools are closed, then they do not know how to take care of children when they have to work again because of the end of their vacation and sick leave, then they state that despite their open-label care, employers call them to return to work, then others report that the employer determines 7-day work without rest despite the care of underage children, and then ask that the employer asks them to work even though he has not provided them with protections such as masks and gloves, then the worker reported whose employer requests to come to work personally even though he does not live in a city where he works and depends on public transportation and can't de facto come. The employers are also reporting. And that's to say, someone hired two seasons, but now he doesn't know what to do with them and their compensation, and in the end we have cases because of these passes, so he can't worry, come to visit a child living in another municipality, and he doesn't get a pass. Retired people who can't go to a bank, to a pharmacy, etc., or to a post office to raise a pension because they don't have a post office. And all these problems, I'm here, as long as I have time to count, require reaction, require reaction. an institution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199056	First, it's Mrs. Crescent. Buric, she can have an intervention at any moment, please, then colleague Schuker. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199057	Thank you. Thank you so much, Vice President HS. So, very briefly. We are here today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 5 state secretaries from 5 different ministries, now the two of us have delivered an oral opinion on the SDP package and by the fact that we were 5 out of 5 different ministries, I think it's a very clear message of respect for the promoter and I'm not saying it at all that I would be pathetic but very honest and open. Health is not everything, however, all without health is absolutely nothing and it is a saying that is more than ever proved true today. What I am also glad is that today most are in a direct or indirect way, regardless of what political groups came from, that parliamentary representatives and MPs have said that this double crisis that we are facing is strategically well-led and that we have good governance. Moreover, this is what we are talking about today, which is a package of measures, which, which is unlegislative, this government, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, has provided only so far 65 billion kuna and what I must mention, is that it is neither the first nor the last package of measures. You know that yourself. - Mrs. Crescent. Leakovic asked a question about people who had lost their jobs in this crisis, and that is why we are talking about the number of about 13,000 people, newly unemployed, which is why the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, or the executive body of the Croatian Employment Service yesterday, included in the criteria for obtaining support for the preservation of jobs, the possibility that employers who report to this support should these people return to work, that they can get that support for them too, so we are talking about support from 4 thousand kuna. There he is. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199058	Stay, you have one more replica, please. Thank you very much. [[- Yeah, good.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk. [[Intruder: Please.]] Thank you. So then, no, no, wait, wait, there's another line, don't leave yet, there's a colleague named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199059	Thank you. State Secretary. It's a good-looking jump, "Health isn't everything, but without health, we're nothing." Did I quote correctly? [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] The saying, it's more to me, it's to be honest, it's more to me to jump. [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] But health protection can't be a front for anything to be done. You can't do everything. So, you need to balance between health, among other segments of life, and you know what our Constitution says, what's everything? Thus, even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the state, the right to life, to ban torture, cruel and humiliating treatment and punishment, thoughts, freedom of mind, conscience, and religion cannot be limited. That's all. So, I agree on the importance of what you've said, but I'm not in favour of such rhetoric justifying possible restrictions on everything and everything for health, but I like the saying, now it's not, it's good, but it's not good for political game. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199060	Here, answer, secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199061	Thank you, Honorable Representative Bauk. So I repeat again. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to preserve health, protect health, on the other hand, preserve jobs, stand behind all Croatian entrepreneurs and workers and try and help and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199062	Thank you, too. Now my colleague Schuker is on behalf of the MPs' club final. I'm just asking for my colleagues' intervention. Thank you. How? I don't doubt you, just what I'm stressing. Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199063	Thank you very much. Well, I answered about three things. The first was once in the Croatian Parliament to have mutual respect among MPs and respect for what the MPs wanted to say. Unfortunately, however, those who spoke most today about how there are no MPs in the Assembly, now there are none in the assembly. There are four of us left. The other thing I wanted to say, I'm honest, but really this is what I tell you out of the soul, after all, and my debate was like this, I expected that colleagues from the SDP who have been reported for discussion each by one or two laws will try to explain the legal proposals to us, and with this, a couple of colleagues who have mentioned certain things, we haven't heard anything. We heard attacks on the government. This is what the Government likes, so eventually on the President of the Parliament, on this, on that, etc., I think today was a debate to fight, not to conflict, to oppose opinions and to think about how to solve this crisis. And lastly, yesterday, I just got this information, the EU Commission confirmed HBOR's portfolio loan scheme for liquidity, so much so that I'm going to mention again and apostrophe my colleague Lalovec, the two of us, no matter what we're from different clubs, are saying that at this point we need to secure funds from all possible sources, and this is just another confirmation that the government is working on all fronts. Some things can be spoken publicly, and some things can be spoken of only when they happen. It is a good thing that anyone who has any knowledge of professional everyday life as a proposal in the Croatian Parliament, but look at colleagues and colleagues, maximum respect and according to this institution was that the colleagues from the club who proposed this legislative proposal would be more present in this debate, it would simply point to the seriousness of this proposal, this is not reading any lesson, but when you give the political rival a chance for creamworth then it would be a shame not to take advantage of it. And how seriously you think about these suggestions of yours is best shown by those who spoke of them, I say honor with exceptions, and these exceptions remain now and in the assembly, the best shows how many people are left in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199064	Thank you, too. My colleague Bauk, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is final, and I apologize on behalf of the Proposer, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Proposer 10, 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199065	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Shuker, Honored Representative Hajdukovic, Honored representative Leakovic, the esteemed vice president, then what you should welcome yourself to, I thank you. So, first of all, the SDP Club didn't choose the time of the debate, we got it this afternoon, we could discuss it tomorrow morning, it might end something more, it might be a little more media attention, but the debate is in line with 90% of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, these 10% of what the president of the day said to adapt it to the situation. We think it was our responsibility to propose a package of measures to help citizens in the first place because some of these proposals can happen in a very similar way from the government in the next month, it can happen. Well, then we'll have what you just said about creamworth, and we'll be able to say we told you or we suggested. And I don't see that that's some big problem, it's a political competition in these circumstances of the epidemic. So when a normal boxing situation without gloves is put on a little thicker gloves and watch every word, and sometimes some of our colleagues still fail to resist calling to cross that fine line between this constructive community that we witness and regular situations. So I would, however, be encouraged by criticism from fellow Shucker once again, briefly said what our proposals were, so 10 measures to help citizens affected by the pandemic. First fee of at least 4,000 kuna per month in the next 3 months for unemployed people who were fired. Then a fee of half a minimum salary per month or 1,625 kuna for the unemployed on the stock market and do not receive any compensation. Permanent seasons fee at a minimum salary of 3,250 kuna per month, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for social assistance users, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for pensioners with small pensions as well as for all persons below the income censorship, a cancellation of the RTV subscription for pensioners with small pensions and social assistance users. Subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna per month for renting the apartment for all of the most affected groups. Terminate the execution and increase the amount of wages exempt from the performance, issue of bank cards for blocked citizens for the on-line transaction, abolishing charges on-line transaction as in crisis conditions no physical contact. I don't think I've even listed all these suggestions. I believe that we will also get a written statement from the government before voting on our proposals, so that, since they have been proposed last week, and I can know the work and functioning of the government agree that maybe there was not enough time to get the government's written statement, but until the vote, since we now have a week's break, we can really get the government's written statement on our bill proposals, too, so that the foundation of them and the foundation of the government's work in the future would allow us to see how much these arguments have been justified, and how much they were merely the fruit of us proposing something without the government's proposal. It's the same thing in political life that's possible. I also believe that the assembly will find time to discuss perhaps in a united debate, such as today, proposals from other promoters, not only the SDP Club, but also other proposings, and that we will have to decide whether we are still in this situation in the constructive community as it is said, but it is not a good way not to accept any proposal, or any amendment of the opposition. Then indeed, as counterpart Maras said, we may be serving as a tower, and at the same time the bodies that make decisions are especially spared, excluded from criticism, the Maltas do not welcome any criticism against them on the knife as if they were protected from criticism or as if I were going to say it without a problem, holy cows, so there are no sacred cows in democracy. But what matters is that their decisions should be implemented and respected, but it is allowed and desirable if they are not good critics because they have also created certain problems for citizens who may still be less than the problems that have been spared by the citizens, for example, I think most of all about preventing the spread of the infection. I thank again everyone who participated, thank the state secretaries from all five ministries, especially my colleague Buric and colleagues from the health ministry who was Plazonic, where he was a representative in the previous assembly of the parliament, but I was afraid not to make a mistake, who remained until the end and representatives, especially colleagues Suker who stayed until the end. I hope that, on our return to the Croatian Parliament, we will continue with the normal dynamics of the debate, that the Parliament will remain a place of control of the government and to prevent the arbitrary conduct of a body that is not good when they have no control and that I believe that other colleagues, whether they are from a position or opposition, will contribute. So, I think that in Croatia, we have long fought for democracy so that only so democratic institutions would now deprive their constitutional powers. Some laws could be passed today by agreement and by a two-thirds majority, but the Constitutional Court will then discuss it well, and for everything else we see next week in the new debate, in the new confrontations of opinions, I believe in new constructive decisions that citizens will be able to cope with this crisis as easily as possible. It will be easy if this lasts for two months, but if it lasts longer then the end of the epidemic will sooner be declared by the Minister of Finance than the Minister of Health because suddenly our alternative will die from hunger or from the crown of the virus becoming a general alternative. Therefore, we can endure for some time, but we also need to think about the scenarios of how to live in co-existence with the coronary virus with the least consequences for society, for citizens, for the economy and for the way we're used to living until the middle of the 3rd month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199066	Thank you. That concludes the debate on a set of ten laws, we'll vote on them when the conditions are met. Another information for counterpart Leaković, a colleague of Hajdukovic, a colleague of Shuker and a colleague of Bauk, the work of the Parliament continues on Wednesday 15th April at 9.30 p.m. on Mark's square with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Coastal Research Security, Carbon Exploitation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 821. Thank you very much and the secretary of state for being here. I wish everyone a happy Easter. Goodbye. SESSION DISCONTINUED
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199067	Proposal for a conclusion on the suspension and/or exemption of part of the payment of the advances of the flat-rate income tax and income tax cut for all taxpayers affected by the COVID-19 crisis. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the final proposal of the final conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the conclusion has not received the required number of votes, so it has not been reached, 35 is for, 2 abstentions and 75 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199068	Let's move on to the agenda. We have already agreed to conduct a joint discussion on the set of 6 laws proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club and one joint SDP representative's club and representative Goran Aleksic's team, and on three proposals for a conclusion submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, these are: - Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the Law on Contribution, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal for the Act on the Law on Obligors, First and Second Amendments, - Final Proposal for the Law on the Complementary of the Law on the Morals, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, - Final Proposal of the Law on Obligations, the Emergency Act on the Taxes, the Second Amendments of the Act, the Second Amendments, the Second Amendment of the Act, the Act on the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Protection of the Act, the Law on the Act, the Second Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Rec, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Protection of the Law on the First, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the First, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law on the Law of the First, the First, the Law on the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the First, the Law of the First, the Law on the Law on the Law, the Law of the Law, the Law, the Law, the Law of the First Act, the Law, on the Law on the Law of the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law, the Law, the First Act, the Law, the Law, the Law of the Law on the Law In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on the Working of the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice. The government didn't deliver an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199069	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning, we warned a month and a half ago about the effects of the crisis caused by the coronary virus. Three weeks ago, we went out with our first package with more than 15 measures to help citizens and preserve jobs. Our measures were not then adopted by the government. Since the first government measures that followed only by our measures were too focused on prolongation, on delays, and they were not enough help for entrepreneurs, nor their employees, and time was leaking, the SDP sent our second package of more than 10 laws to save the economy and jobs, which we are unfortunately considering today. The second package comes today after voting on the government's package, shows in fact only demeaning and opposition, but also citizens, especially those citizens who have lost their jobs in the last two weeks due to late government reactions, over 20,000 of them as well as those citizens who at this point fear losing their jobs. Further demeaning comes precisely because the government was not even ready to manifest itself on this proposal. This only shows the relationship that currently exists in Croatia with all those who are trying to constructively help their proposals the poorest, most endangered, unemployed and other most vulnerable groups of citizens who are going through a severe crisis in Croatia thanks to the coronary virus. It is precisely because of a late reaction from the Government that the SDP proposed in the second package a write-off, not just a postponement of taxes and contributions, and we have suggested that we exempt the payment of profit tax for all entrepreneurs because this is not a time in which they can simply or should credit the state. Secondly, we have proposed the release from the payment of the flat-rate tax for craftsmen and small tenants due to special circumstances because they are closed due to the decision of the headquarters and we have proposed to write down 100% of the contributions for salaries to employees during the duration of the crisis simply so that they can help these people because they are closed by the decision of the headquarters due to the crown of the virus. After a very high public pressure, after we had pushed in the SDP for the past three weeks, offered to the Croatian public, and also to the Croatian government to help solve these problems in trying to preserve jobs, after pushing them to move faster, to simply do more in the direction of protection and employers, but also jobs, only one step was taken to help the economy. Therefore, the proposals for a write-down of taxes and contributions were accepted. But now you need at this specific moment of help right now to the citizens, to do what is not done. Help those most vulnerable, workers, but also unemployed, parents who stay with children at home, but also those workers who stay at home alone in self-insulation, as well as those on the first line of defense against the epidemic. Therefore, the SDP continues to insist on its second package of laws to help preserve jobs and therefore we still feel that our proposals are needed at this point. It is necessary to increase the basis for compensation for self-insulation workers to the average salary level because this fee of 2100 kuna is simply too small for a man's life. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide paid leave to at least one parent who spends time at home with his child under 12 years of age, especially since in this situation the parent is particularly affected at work. It is also necessary to increase the amount of non-taxable payments to help employers in particularly sensitive activities in the root of the crisis to reward their workers, especially those now on the first line of defence against the epidemic and helping Croatian citizens not to lack anything, so that they can reward traders, so that they can reward pharmacists, drivers, workers and logistics workers, as well as security guards, those whose simple work in these difficult times has not stopped but is even more pronounced. 4. it would be responsible to enable workers who are at risk of a job due to the crisis to pay 75% of the salary, up to a maximum of 5,100 kuna, it is a small cost to the state, and it is certainly a guarantee of a much better life for those people who cannot work in these conditions. And they can't work primarily on sectors for which Croatia's GDP depends most, it's tourism and hospitality. Tourism reminds me that it accounts for over 20% of our GDP, when tourism and hospitality are at stake in the government in this segment has done absolutely nothing, practically nothing but petty cosmetic and technical changes. We recall that the SDP has proposed to abolish the obligation to pay the flat-rate tax for small tenants, we have also proposed to abolish the obligation to pay advances for artisan craftsmen and to abolish certain parafiscal duties including the flat-rate amount of tourist tax and membership fee to the tourist community during the crisis. And I remind you that we will continue to insist that VAT in tourism and catering goes to 5% especially at this time of crisis, as we today insist that VAT on food delivery goes to 0% because we believe that in these difficult times, especially in the circumstances of the crisis when people order delivery needs to act on one hand and to reduce prices, but also to reduce taxes to those who have suffered the most damages due to the crisis, and these are the caterers. At a time of crisis, we must be solid, especially us politicians who represent citizens, especially those who are most affected by this crisis and who have lost their jobs or gone to a minimum. We therefore propose that for the next three months, parliamentary representatives and other state officials, other than those on the first line of defence against the virus, work for a minimumer to solidarity with a number of citizens who will be affected by this crisis, and unfortunately more and more in Croatia. 70,000 social assistance users, 240,000 blocked, more than 400,000 citizens living below the poverty threshold of 1,940 kuna, mostly part of the pensioners. In just two weeks of the crisis primarily due to a late government reaction, over 20,000 workers are jobless, another 400,000 fear for losing their jobs. For 5,500 permanent seasons and over that number as well as for more than 100,000 people registered on the stock market, and now they are not receiving any compensation for the simple prospect of employment is almost completely destroyed due to the crisis and they need help. So, it's over a million of the most vulnerable who can't pay the directors soon, can't pay the rent for the apartment, can't pay the loans. It is already clear that this crisis will take, in particular, a recovery from the crisis, so that we insist in the SDP that it is necessary to secure the moratorium on loans for a year, not just three months, and in a way that the interest is calculated in order to ensure on one hand the safety of entrepreneurs to continue their business, but in order to make them the most important thing, to ensure that citizens continue their normal lives without fear and uncertainty. It is necessary at this point to suspend and tighten interest, we have also suggested and is in this set of laws to help the economy and preserve jobs. So I want to say, in the SDP, we will continue to insist on the moratorium, on paying off loans for a year, but we will also insist on our third package of measures to help the citizens we presented the other day, which includes. First, a fee of 4,000 kuna per month in the next three months for unemployed people who were fired because of the root crisis, thanks to a late reaction from the government, a protection supplement of 750 kuna per month for all users of social assistance, etc. The minimum fee guaranteed is 70,000, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for all those who have income below the poverty threshold, so it's between 350 and 400,000 people below the threshold of 1,940 kuna per person for the most part of the pensioners, so these are pensioners with small pensions. We will insist on a fee of half the minimum wage, i.e. $1,625 per month for the unemployed currently on the stock market, who do not receive any remuneration and whose chance of employment has been completely destroyed due to the crisis, we will insist on continuing seasons at a minimum wage of 3,250 kuna per month of them 5,500, simply people have to live on something. Also, we propose to abolish the RTTV subscription precisely for these most affected layers of citizens, as well as a subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna renting the apartment for these mentioned categories, of course for people who are hired. What I would particularly like to put an emphasis on, I would like to stress that our legal proposals to be referred to in the procedure will require a suspension of the performance and an increase in the amount of pay free of charge, as well as the issue of bank cards blocked with a certain spending limit and the abolition of transactions i.e. compensation for transactions in online payments simply so that under the conditions of the crisis there will be no physical contact. We believe that these measures are very concrete, that they are implemented and that they should act quickly to help the most vulnerable groups of citizens, unemployed, pensioners, permanent seasons, social assistance users. I call on the government to consider them and to respect them as she has already complied with some of our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199070	Thank you. Continuing, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199071	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would only briefly comment on the moratorium law on the loans of debtors why it matters. In his statement, the CNB made public, i.e. according to the recommendations of the European Central Bank or the European Banking Supervisory Mechanism in Frankfurt, it said for a year that you have a framework for all business entities and citizens not to go to... claims. In other words, what does that mean? The CNB, or regulator, has already given a year to all business banks how to treat claims in their books, which means that banks already have the opportunity to do so. What does it matter? If this crisis, we all know, and we're aware that it can't end in three months, if the banks start to collect claims after three months, but now we have a liquidity problem, they'll simply suck all the money out of the system. If businesses and citizens come to them after three months, all these amounts, simply when the economy needs to be returned if they are bank priorities they will simply suck all the money out of the system if they have insurance instruments, they can charge much better from the state, they can be charged sooner than the state. And that's why it's important to calm down if we're saving the economic system now, now we're saving the economy of the Republic of Croatia. After three months, banks cannot be a priority over the state and cannot be a priority over other suppliers. And that's why it's important, and all the legal mechanisms have to be very good at controlling the whole process now. And here's why our intensity was to go with this moratorium for a year, only to those who are in liquid problems, only to those citizens who are at a minimum and only to those who are at risk, that they are simply given the opportunity to cope in that particular period of time. But what I'm warning you all the time is that it's simply our biggest fear of liquidity, liquidity or the insolvency of the system, that the system doesn't crack in the 6th month, is that we won't be able to get foreign exchanges about tourism and that simply when the economy starts to turn to make priority to suppliers and to pay bills, and only later will the banks that have the biggest capital and later come to the state that when the economy starts and collects their claims. Here's what I'd like to ask my colleague, Alexic, if that's what we agreed on for the last words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199072	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199073	I thank the SDP first of all for inviting me to propose with them the Moratorium on Loans Act, as this is my area of action since the beginning of the Croatian Parliament of the Bank, credit institutions, debts. I also note that it is very good that certain measures of force are also proposed in this third package, it will be proposed that we already proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia deblocking accounts, bans on enforcement, cards to everyone for free, free Internet banking, all this is important in these moments to enable citizens. The SNAGA party has proposed 16 measures in total, but I would now say something more about these moratories because it is the subject of exposure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has announced as one of the measures of the moratorium on the payment of the loan claim, as announced by the government of the Republic of Croatia, however, the government has not proposed a binding measure. The government of the Republic of Croatia has obviously discussed this with banks because banks have offered moratories to citizens, but these moratories include the calculation of interest, and these interest rates reach the day the moratorium ceases to operate and then they are deployed to wars or whatever bank it intends to negotiate with its debtors. It's not a moratorium. Such a moratorium of banks approve consumers, businesses, anyone and in a normal situation, therefore it is not a moratorium that must be made possible in the current crisis situation. In the current crisis situation, a moratorium must be allowed to collect claims from loans without interest and without any other charges being charged. If the moratorium lasts a year, and it should take a year, because the crisis will not stop the day the virus stops working, but the crisis will continue, because we will all be in the most citizens' problems, businesses less because they will start working, which is why the measure needs to be extended for a year. And it is easy to reduce the measure in the meantime if there is a better situation between citizens and businesses. Croatian banks can handle this measure without a problem. Croatian banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is excess liquidity. What does that mean? This means that they have 34 billion kunas of their own money that they can do whatever they want to do because they are not obliged to account for that money to anyone. And these 10 billion I said now seem to have fired the CNB in the last tranche another number of billions, so their liquidity is even greater than, that excess liquidity is even more than 34 billion kuna. Therefore, the banks must wait for the payment, and in addition the banks are obliged to the Croatian citizens who have robbed for the course of the franc, for the payment of interest that was illegal for a total of 20 billion kuna, hence those banks that are due to all of us, and perhaps for those of you who are here with me now, perhaps some of you banks owe us, and the banks they owe us should not now be charged in the annuity crisis. What's still missing, and what we haven't covered by the law is the licking, so the licking should be covered by the moratorium, it's primarily important for those companies that deal with transport, so they've got to get to licking buses, some other means of transport or the means of working in agriculture, so it's not working for them now, they need to be given a lysing moratorium because they don't fit at this time. So there are a series of measures still missing, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider this bill that we have put into the SDP procedure and I as Parliament's representative of the SNAGA party. I hope you will also consider this new package of measures mentioned by my colleague Bernardic, about cards, about unblocking citizens, about breaking up accounts, about free Internet banking. I don't think there's gonna be a problem with that, the government hasn't done it yet, but I don't think the government will have a problem with that, and that if the government doesn't even accept this proposal, they're going to prepare their proposal the way the government thinks it's best and they're going to put it in the process within about 7 to 10 days. Here's thank you for listening very carefully to what I've put forward and I hope you'll accept all of it in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199074	Thank you to Reverend Goran Aleksic. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinovic has a request for the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199075	... in accordance with Article. 248. The Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work seek a five-minute break in front of the club Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to warn the citizens and here present representatives of the complexity, the additional complexity of this economic situation in Croatia for which this second round of measures will not be sufficient today. In that sense, and thus I want to change Croatia constructively to this proposal for a package of measures that is now being discussed, I would like to draw particular attention to the second pension pillar. I'm looking for and I suggest, respected citizens, that they all be deposited in another pension column frozen during the crisis. Why? Because every month, on average, about 500 million kuna is paid into the second pension column, which is about 6 billion kuna a year. Now imagine how much it would mean, respected citizens, 500 million kunas every month during the crisis that you can get that money that's missing from the state, that you can pay minimum workers who have lost their jobs, social cases, those who are seasons that no one sees or asks what they're doing somewhere in between. Therefore, I think it is very important and we take advantage of this situation, we are ready, we have excellent economic experts in the party to change Croatia, we use this crisis to start reforming the second pension pillar, to transform it, to give people freedom to transfer their money or to the first pension column where they will guarantee the state or to the third liberal so that they can be rich or lost, but the time is so. If we do this, we will drastically reduce public debt, repair public finances and contribute to saving the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199076	Thank you. I'll have a break by 14.50. THE PURPOSE
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199077	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.50 HOURS]] So we have three replicas, we have two replicas at the exhibition of our colleagues Bernardic, we have one replica on the presentation of our fellow Lalovec. First fellow Maras at the fair of fellow Bernardic. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199078	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you explained a whole series of laws that I don't think it's a good thing we didn't discuss before the vote today, because some proposals are certainly still very current and we just need to apply them. One such proposal is also the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act where we predicted that one parent should be allowed to stay with his child if both parents work because we know that school doesn't work, that our children are home. We must thank parents who at this time are making a great effort to make up for this situation that is with their children, teachers who send tasks parents must work because they simply have to gain knowledge. And it would be much easier if the state would allow one parent to be at home with his child and do what is necessary. Here's what I want you to further comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199079	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199080	Dear colleague Maras. Maybe that's why you said that we don't actually have the government's opinion today because if they asked anyone responsible from the health care system of any epidemiologist, you'd say that for the possibility of spreading the infection isn't as good as our thousands of citizens do, going to work with children because they don't have anywhere to leave them. They're going with little boys, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia it hasn't been recorded yet, but we've seen that young people and children can be infected around the world and unfortunately the coronarys of the virus are dying. Not to mention when you bring a child to work, that virus can spread faster. So I can't believe that in a month there's no understanding, no sense, no common sense when it comes to treating parents who should stay home with their children for up to 12 years to prevent and spread the infection, but to make their lives much more pleasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199081	Thank you. The next replica of a colleague of the coat of arms on a colleague of Bernardic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Maras spoke of one important measure, and I would single out one other which seems to me to be extremely important for Croatian citizens, which is a matter of moratorium on loan payments. What the government of the Republic of Croatia has agreed with Croatian business banks and what business banks are giving based on their decision is all but a moratorium. It is a delay, a delay that citizens and citizens will pay dearly because during the duration of that delay they will be charged interest on the entire principal of the loan. So, in this way, the banks will actually cost 6 months of delays to Croatian citizens and make extra money in this way. That is why I believe that this may be the most important measure of all that we have proposed, and I absolutely advocate its adoption and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199083	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199084	First of all, thank you, fellow coat of arms, for that observation. That's what we're going to insist on, it's inadmissible that at this difficult moment the banks are reaching for additional profits in those who are unhappy with this crisis, which are the most endangered. And it is unacceptable for the government to calmly observe that additional interest is being charged on loans that people can no longer pay, especially those 20,000 people who are out of work thanks to the late government reaction or those 400,000 who fear that they will lose their jobs because simply those companies where they work today are closed. And that's why it's necessary, and that's why we're going to insist on making a moratorium on loans for the citizens for a year, but in a way that doesn't account for any extra interest because it's absolutely certain that this crisis is going to last and that we're going to need some more time to get out of this crisis. That's why we've been looking for a year, not any less prolongation periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199085	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask a colleague of Lalovec and a colleague of Maras you have a replica on a colleague of Lalovec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199086	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, I'd like to comment on the situation regarding the delay and moratorium on the loans. At this point, we have a situation that is not regulated and defined, so some banks haven't charged loans by this date until they see that citizens are applying for them to process and examine it in some way who would have the right and who wouldn't have the right. But I think and I think it would be normal for the state to regulate the system and know exactly what situation citizens are entitled to the moratorium for a year and on the other hand to protect them from the uncertainty of the next months and the next year. Because we know all seasons will be zero, over 300,000 people will be out of a job very soon, 300,000 took advantage of the possibility of being on the minimal offered by the government, the state has to do it urgently, so we don't have time to wait because the banks already recognized certain problems I think the state should too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199087	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199088	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, for asking. That's why the SDP also proposes a moratorium for a year, precisely because this won't be over in three months, only at 6 and 7 months we'll see the state of unemployment in society, we'll see that a number of companies that will only then open their doors at 6 and 7 months start from zero, let's not forget that they start from scratch that these three months of moratorium mean nothing to them. These companies will all take more than a year to recover their pre-crisis traffic. And because of this, when these companies start from zero, they will likely have minimally certain revenues, no tourism, no economic activity, and therefore it is important that in the 6th, 7th and 8th months when economic activity is due to return, not all banks will be frozen to purchase all of the liquidity from the system and thus will still cause economic recession and therefore we expect a very fast liquidity fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199089	Thank you. Now the government's representatives will give an additional explanation in a united call it a 15-minute debate with you being able to replicate each and every one of them, they will change. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199090	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In addition, to the set of legal regulations as well as the conclusions proposed in this agenda, a total of 10, what was introduced and said in view of the government's obligation to give its position and opinion, which for obvious reasons is the speed of action, given that these proposals are also by emergency procedure, here I use the opportunity to present at least in this section as regards the Ministry of Finance, so colleagues in their section. I would just like to begin by thanking my colleagues from the SDP and everyone who voted today for these legal regulations adopted by this House of Commons, proposed by the Government in order to mitigate the effects of the coronary epidemic of the virus. So far, we have had two packages of legislation in March and now in this month, totaling 32 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 18 decisions and 3 conclusions are all aimed at protecting the health of citizens, and, of course, preserving jobs and preserving the liquidity of businesses so that the economy can survive at all. In this regard, because of sustainability and the state budget itself, they would point out that in this way and in this way these measures so far have been developed by the Government in terms of citizenship, and solidarity and synchronisation in the work of all components of society is more than necessary and important to emerge from this crisis as little as possible and that the economy and society can function as a whole. As regards the legal rules that came from the Ministry's domain, there were five, the General Tax Law as a roof regulation that regulates the relationship between the tax authority and the taxpayer through whose... we went to regulate all these provisions concerning the suspension of payments to ultimately write down claims all under the tax code through the General Tax Code. This is what we wanted to shorten the procedures and go line-by-line in that part of taxation, all of the norms went through the General Tax Law, and now, after today's vote of law, of course, will be accessed and drawn up by the regulations themselves, which will set the deadlines where they are needed in terms of moving deadlines, as is, for example, allowed through the amendment of the Accounting Act, but in this section through the Regulation they will be allowed to be now 30.6. or some other date due to this operationality daily because the situation is changing, they can be freely said from day to day. So it's very important to know that as we know we have the main factor or factor in this whole situation completely unknown, it's the length of the duration of this crisis, and with its length and impact on the economy. Therefore, this dosing of measures that the state budget can take or will have to pass through some other types of funding must be such that it is sustainable, that it generally exists as a state budget. As regards these provisions of some of these proposals, I would just like to mention, for example, the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act where an untaxable reward for risk-related risks to elemental disasters is proposed, I would like to remind you that we already have these provisions in norms as untaxable including health care that was previously untaxable. So I'm really sorry, and I wouldn't want it to turn out that we don't want to meet all these good demands that are being proposed here, but since the regulations that are mutually synchronised are both the Ministry of Finance and the other members of the government. Certain proposals here are somewhat contrary to some of the activities that we have today supported by the government's adoption of these legal proposals. Of course, as far as the third round that the prime minister announced in terms of measures related to citizens is concerned, I believe the next measure, and which you are now pointing out here, and I assume that this will have more to say to the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199091	Thank you. I'm asking the next representative of the government. So on your show we have three replicas, we'll do that later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199092	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. I present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in oral form on the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the amount of support to preserve jobs in activities affected by the Crown virus, the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament not accept this proposal for a conclusion on increasing the amount of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the virus virus submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives' Club. First of all, I must stress that the focus of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to protect health, as well as to preserve all jobs and fight for every job. We stand firm behind Croatian workers, and in this sense there is a measure and all the other measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken. The meeting, held on 2 April 2020, concluded on the second group of measures to help the economy resulting from an outbreak of the coronary virus and the implementation of all these measures provided 65 billion kuna, I repeat 65 billion kuna. And for the support we are talking about, support for job conservation is provided 8.5 billion kuna and according to the current projections that we have, this measure will cover 500,000 workers. In accordance with the policy of preserving jobs, the amount of support to preserve jobs in sectors affected by the coronary virus has been increased from 3,250 kuna, as you know to 4,000 kuna per worker for April and May of this year, and employers using those support will also be freed from the cost of corresponding contributions. Just to remind you, the state is also carrying the burden of paying a contribution of around 1,500 kuna. And what I must especially point out is that on today, therefore, on 7 April, we have received 84,000 requests for about 500,000 workers, and only so far have we paid 600 million kuna. You remember that some day already the employers who applied and whose application or application was valid that one day they sat down 600 million kunas in total for a job-preservation measure or support. What I must also particularly stress and remind is that both employers and workers and trade unions and the entire Croatian public have, to a great extent, praised this measure of support for the preservation of jobs. The level of support is set at 4,000 kuna in order to cover as I have said as many workers as possible, to ensure the necessary material protection, to keep people in employment and to facilitate the business of employers under special circumstances and, of course, to account for available financial opportunities. What I must also point out when we talk about support for job conservation, it also existed in the past crisis that lasted during the SDP, but I must state that at that time the support for the preservation of jobs was consumed in 4 years only 2,008 times. Well, thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199093	Time, please. We have two replicas on your exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199094	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. As for the Ministry of Justice's portfolio, we have already repeated several times that with due attention, given the circumstances in which we are working on several amendments to the current legislative proposals. First of all, the executive procedures at this point have stopped. It is our recommendation to the public notaries to make all the public notes available for deadlines that will run when this situation continues. So our recommendation is that public notebooks make executive solutions, but don't send them to the executives until they pass the circumstances caused by the COVID-19 crisis. Also in the following days, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take new measures to fully halt the executive procedures until the elements of this health threat have passed. As regards the proposal to reduce the tightening interest rate on trade relations and contracts between traders and public rights persons, we believe that, although we appreciate the proposal's intention, it was not only in this particular section that the other relations were taken into account. Also in the non-standard part, it is not explained until the end, which means this feedback and justification of such feedback in view of the situation that has arisen since the day we declared the pandemic, which is 19 March 2020. Considering everything that you have suggested the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also working on this set of legal changes that will come in a package with a resolution of laws relating to the Ministry of Justice. The question of deadlines is also a matter of several laws, with due regard to the specificity of the issue of deadlines at the Ministry of Justice, we have proposed and in a few days everything about deadlines will be available to the public in order not to question the functioning of the judicial system as a whole. I repeat, it is not time for us to speak politically now, professionally with the justice portfolio we will do everything to address the issue of blocked citizens in a few days, the issue of enforcement in a way that will stop until the circumstances that require the situation to be normal in the Croatian state continue in a way that we can work on the new Executive Law, and that we now do in this part of the crisis stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199095	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives of colleagues and colleagues. Here before I start reading what I'm going to say today given these points that I would just remind everyone present today that today is World Health Organization Day, and we can especially speak with pleasure because we all know very well that one of the founders, and surely the first president of the World Health Organization was ours. Andrija Printer. First, he would refer to the proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I must say that the legal proposal suggests that one of the parents has the right to pay wages during the temporary prevention to work for the care of a child up to 12 years of life for the closure of educational institutions and that is, if the reasons for the closure of a health or safety nature are on the burden of HZZO funds. Since the rights provided under compulsory health insurance rights are directly linked to the use of healthcare in the existence of a disease or medical indication to achieve the same, that issue cannot be regulated by the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and cannot be achieved on the burden of the means of compulsory health insurance because there is no medical indication for the same in the sense of the Health Insurance Act. The second promemory is mine, which speaks of the proposal for a conclusion on the increase of the maximum or maximum monthly amount of salary compensation, on the burden of HZZO assets, isolated or self-insulated employees due to the Covida-19 epidemic. This proposal proposes to increase the maximum monthly amount of salary compensation on the burden of HZZO funds to isolated or self-insulated employees due to an outbreak of covids and to the amount of the average salary in the Croatian Republic in January 2020. The proposal is not acceptable without the provision of additional funding from the state budget and therefore we do not agree with the proposal of this law Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199097	Thank you. Please give me just stay here, and we'll go the other way because we have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, followed by his colleague Maras. And I apologize to Anka's colleague, Mr. Taritash. Just stay, so you can answer immediately that we don't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199098	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State and I join in reminding ourselves that today is the World Health Day, especially dedicated to nurses and midwives who make a really big contribution to this fight. What I want to ask you is, are you in charge of ensuring the financial stability of this system in the ministry, because after the end of the crisis, the situation will be even worse, and therefore I appeal that, at the same time with the fight against the crown of the virus, you lead and fight to save the financial stability of the health system when the coronary crisis is over. Also, since we have all received a letter from the Chamber of Health Care Professionals of a special segment of health laboratory activity, to withdraw from the e-consultation of the law currently in the debate on medical biochemical activity because it is not in conformity with all stakeholders and is a discrimination against the employees of the laboratory profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199099	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199100	I would refer to this first part, to this second part, I think we've talked a lot about it, and I think that when this entire epidemic of Corona virus passes, we'll have plenty of time to talk about it in peace. As far as the financial situation is concerned, the fact is that we are now in a special position to provide health care to all those who have suffered from Covidom-19 infection and that this is our priority because it means not only that we have to provide financial resources for the adaptation of our hospital spaces, for the opening of respiratory centres, for the unification of certain functions of intensive care, intensive therapy, the acquisition of apparatus etc., etc., so for now we in one part would say reduced health work on issues of more selective procedures, and to the maximum focus on what cannot wait, and these are clearly medical emergencyes and malignant diseases, in this respect we have maximum orientation. and technical and financial, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199101	Thank you. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199102	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, as I understand from your debate, the government, or the state, has no money to pay to allow parents to stay, at least one of the two employed parents to stay with their children at home. When we estimated what the amount would be for the next period, we came to some billions of kunas if we used that exactly all in the Republic of Croatia in such a situation, which probably wouldn't be the case. But it's amazing to me that for our children, for parents who have to work with them on their home education, who have to take care of them, try to be sure in some way not to expose them to this whole situation under the motto "stay home" the government says there's no money for it. For some other things that cost the same thing, there's money. Now, you explain to me why the government can't find the money to keep each of our parent employees at least one of them, with their children at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199103	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199104	So I can't speak on behalf of the government, I'm not Prime Minister or Prime Minister, but I can say what and repeat what I said today and today this part of the financial compensation is not part of it, not part of which would be the health insurance from which patients who need to finance the health system as a whole are financed. So he just can't get into this law. If the government has money from some other means, I can't say it right now because I'm neither Minister of Finance nor Prime Minister, but I can't get into HZZO health insurance, it's not the same, there's no place for that legal space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199105	A fellow Maras injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199106	Thank you very much. The 238th article was injured, you here Mr. Secretary of State said you couldn't answer because you're neither Prime Minister nor Minister of Finance, and why did you come here to give your opinion on it? Are you just here to convey greetings and messages or represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about this law? You must give us an answer if you are a representative of the government. Why is it not possible to secure these funds in the state budget? It's going to be budget rebalance, plan them, you can't tell us that's not possible. So I'm begging you, Mr. Vice President, they're here. Government representatives have to give us answers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199107	Thank you, so in. So just for a second, so you can't because this isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Maras. [[/Intruder: Can I answer?]] So they give answers within their means, so no injured Rules of Procedure Please don't do this anymore. [[Intruder: Within its resources.]] Third replica of Anka's colleague, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199108	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you are here on behalf of your ministry and on behalf of the Government and we expect answers from you. In my replica, I ask you to read the following fact. So we at the GLAS Club immediately applied for an emergency procedure of the law where those in self-insulation linked to the threat we have from the virus would have a fee different from that prescribed at this point. What exactly is this about? It's about two weeks of self-insulation, and we only gave that up when it started, the fee was 2,100 kuna and it remained. But there's something else, when we looked at that law, that compensation for people who decided to donate an organ to someone, so they give someone their kidney, when they're on sick leave to receive a fee of 4,400 kuna in a month. So I'm interested in your position regarding these self-insulation and organ donation charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199109	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199110	It is difficult to compare the diseases resulting from organ transplants and the issue of organ transplanters with Covida-19 infection. These are two things that in medicine simply cannot be compared because they have neither the same etiology nor the same medical I would say weight. As for financial compensation to people who are in isolation or self-insulation, it is as much as the Government has decided at the moment that they can give, and whether there will be financial resources in the coming period depending on the development of the overall situation with this pandemic that is something we will see in the future, and probably according to that, we will then be different and financially oriented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199111	Thank you. Now we have three replicas of Secretary of State Salapic. The first is a colleague of the coat of arms, you can talk slowly, and you'll make one small intervention. Thank you. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, I assume you know what I'm going to ask you, and this concerns the situation in the judiciary and the fact that despite the announcements made by the Minister of Justice Mr. Bosnjakovic in the interim building of a meeting in the basement of a historic ININE building 10 days ago, we still don't have a law that would regulate the course of court deadlines in times of crisis. And you and I both know how many problems there are in the Croatian judiciary otherwise, we know that these problems are further highlighted now in the Kovid era, we know that there are courts that are blocked because individuals in these courts have been infected, we know that the earthquake makes it impossible to use a whole series of courts buildings in Zagreb. My question is, when are you going to refer to the procedure a law that will regulate the time-limits in court proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199113	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199114	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, we are in preparation for the deadline law, and we have already repeated it several times. It's not about one law. It's about a set of laws and a very sensitive matter. What I can say responsibly, the justice system in the circumstances in which we are caused by the earthquake, Covidom-19, works so that the rule of law is not compromised at any time. As for the specifics, we are in a few days will be after Easter and with you here in Parliament discussing this. There is nothing that would endanger any citizens of the Republic of Croatia to protect their rights, and also as far as investigative procedures are concerned, the urgency of court proceedings, all courts in the Republic of Croatia are doing their job in such a way that these laws are implemented no matter where the court is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199115	Thank you. The next replica of Anka's colleague Mrak Taritas, followed by counterpart Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199116	Before starting with the replicas, distinguished secretary of state, therefore we are in this area not because of the crown but because of the earthquake that was in Zagreb. The earthquake that was in Zagreb, what we have a chance to see has done a lot of damage in courts that are basically in the lower city where there was damage. I'm curious, of course, when you're here, then you're going to give us answers to what we have a chance to ask you, which is whether it started with the damage recovery, as you've thought, whether or not with the Ministry in charge of the property you're seeing some other locations where the work of the judiciary might take place, because some resolutions will take a very long time, and we think that life can't stop and we hope that this threat will end quickly, so that life will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199117	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199118	Thank you very much. You were the Minister of Construction, and then you know that some demands are complicated. As far as the County Court building in Zagreb is concerned, the reconstruction took place immediately after the earthquake and will eventually become operational. As for replacement properties, we have found several locations that will soon be published by one of them is a building on Harambasic Street that has about 4000 square meters, there will be moved by certain judicial institutions, the Commercial Court, part of the Administrative, etc. What we've been doing certainly from the day of the earthquake to today, we've taken steps to make the entire justice system work soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199119	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199120	Thank you. Dear Secretary Salapic, please answer my very simple question, you have now announced publicly that the government will prepare a stalemate of all tasks. But from what I've come from the media, I've concluded that it's a law relating to monetary performances, but I'm asking you specifically now, does this mean that it's going to be a stalemate of all tasks, means those who go through the FINE and those who the employer takes out from pay and pay the creditor where the pension is, too, part of the pension goes to the believer, will all of this be covered by the stalemate, and will there be a delay in the flow of tight interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199121	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199122	Your Honor, I've said and I repeat three times, we've been working on everything, we've made a recommendation to the public notaries to do a stop since the day the earthquake happened and these results caused by Covidom-19. No executioner has received an executive solution, no action, no execution, no actions. Within a week, we will unblock 240,000 citizens in time of 3 months when they will be able to fully manage their incomes in full amounts. As for the others, if I did not say in advance something that needs to be discussed on professional bodies, I would not want to be hasty to make sure that at this point we stop and help as many Croatian citizens as possible at the risk of this health threat in a way that we will stop as much as possible with the executive procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199123	Thank you. Next we have two replicas to the secretary of state, Mrs. Buric. We have, first is colleagues Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic. A little intervention, so we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199124	Dear Secretary of State, you have proudly pointed out in your presentation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the first step of 3,200 kuna in the second of 4,000 kunas net and around 5,200 gross for more than 80,000 employers and about 500,000 Croatian workers. I wonder if you can give us information on how much of these 500,000 workers before the crisis and before the decision on the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had a salary greater or significantly greater than that 3,200 kuna or 4,000 kuna or whether you can tell us how many of them fell to the minimum because of this government decision and whether these employers will still feel this crisis or not, or whether it will fall on the back of those 500,000 workers. And on the other hand, I have to comment that in your comparison of support from the SDP government I have an impression, I hope I'm wrong, as if you're lucky that this crisis hit Croatia so that you can say that HDZ has given 500,000 support, which is much less than he was giving the SDP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's exactly what I noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199125	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199126	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Giujic, I'm sorry that your feeling is cheating on you, it's very cheating on you. So I'll repeat our focus is health protection and on the other hand protection of all jobs. That is why we have provided an additional 8.5 billion kuna for the support measure to preserve jobs. What I must also tell you is that today we have 84,000 demands for about 500,000 workers, and so far we have paid about 600 million kuna. We're working at five speeds and moving on intensively. I just want to say that in the HZZ which is the implementing body for this measure, officials work in two shifts, so it is really intensive and what is our main intensity and the main goal is to preserve jobs. Also facilitating employers, facilitating workers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199127	Thank you. Next replica of colleague Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199128	Mrs Buric argued in her presentation that the measures of the government of the Republic of Croatia are equally supported by employers, workers and trade unions. It's only partially true. So you've respected almost all the proposals that came from the HUP, but not a single proposal that came from the union. Moreover, an amendment to the Labour Act has been prepared in your ministry to derogate workers' rights. That's fortunately prevented at the GSV session at least for the time being. Can you tell me if you are planning to bring any changes to the Labour Law in due time or if you are planning something else that we have already heard to suit workers, rather than going towards breaking this crisis just over their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199129	Thank you. Here's an answer from the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199130	Thank you very much. So that component, which is unfortunately unpredictable, is the duration of this entire crisis related to the crown, i.e. Covid-19. Our short-term measures and the medium-term measures are presented, before you. What I am extremely pleased about is that a very high consensus has been reached, I will repeat both employers and workers and unions and the overall social community and I believe that in any case it is something that is very important at this time and because of the feelings of our citizens and the sense of security and protection in very, very difficult and challenging times. Anyway, what I also have to tell you is that we've opened absolutely all the questions, we've assumed all the questions and we're considering [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199131	Thank you. And the last set of replicas on Secretary of State Zrinasic. There you go. You don't have a replica anymore. First up, she's a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199132	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have spent a lot of time with us in this crisis, and in your opening statement, you have explained what you have done, what you have done, what you intend to do. We don't normally think in GLAS that the state should always and every time everything is very sharp and everything needs to be regulated and regulated, but when it comes to banks, when it comes to the moratorium on loans, when it comes to the lying houses that colleagues were talking about in the opening presentation, we don't think that it can just work on a deal between the resolution minister and the banks, so that banks decide, we think it should also be defined by law. Don't let it happen to us that behind this crown epidemic and the downfall of the economy, the only one who will benefit from it and come out richer will be the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199133	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199134	Here, thank you very much. I agree with your suggestion in terms of the treatment of all entities in this crisis and the financial sector mentioned. Of course, this one division of all the participants in this situation is very important in terms of balance and tomorrow the continuation of life, as well as our citizens, and economic operators, and ultimately the financial institutions that in their part this is leaning on or these former ones are leaning on them. We have had some further proceedings that financial institutions have launched against the Republic of Croatia for, due to the adoption of certain legal norms that we still have court proceedings outside the Republic of Croatia, and in that sense, the government in the first steps has been better agreed than imperative if it is possible. Of course, this tall home and all together We'll bring certain regulations that are best. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199135	Thank you. Comrade coat of arms, here's another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, of course, and my question will be focused on the moratorium on loans, you understand why. I got word today by a gentleman with his situation, a loan he took last year, a war of 3,000 kunas a month, a clear principal in this year has paid nothing back. In order to get a six-month stay, so to get a refund of $18,000, the bank will account for an interest of more than 12,000. Do you think that's okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199137	Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199138	Thank you very much. Now you've brought up one case that is probably and life-like, I really can't get into the calculations right now, but the situations that have happened so far, or today, in terms of the crisis triggered by the corona virus, they're not at all comparable, so we're going to agree, and what this crisis is about to take action is to take those measures that were unimaginable until yesterday. So in this sense, what we are discussing today and what will be discussed in the coming days and making appropriate decisions will certainly require some measures that may not have been imagined in the past, and so this question that you are now asking, indeed weighs now what is right, you are a lawyer in the given conduct in terms of the Law on Mandatory Relations and other measures that, in certain exceptional circumstances, are necessary to take, this is something that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199139	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199140	Thank you, Vice President. So, first of all, I would like to say that all state secretaries here represent the government and I can't say that they don't represent the government, if they don't represent the government, they shouldn't have come here, she should have come as Prime Minister and Minister. Why is the suspension of the moratorium on loans of 3 months not sufficient? Because people took credit for example. in tourist activity extended either quality or expanded their accommodation facilities. This season is gone, it is clear to all of us, because the crown must stop not only in Croatia it must stop throughout Europe or around the world for tourists to go at all. Those people already know. What does it mean to them if after three months they have to pay off the loan, and they don't make money because this year they won't make any money. So, come on, let's approach the reasonable problem, reasonablely. So this proposal of ours to be for a year until they start working, until they start working is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199141	Thank you. Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199142	Thank you very much for asking. The measures launched by the Government during March and relating to the Coronal Virus, of course, are seen in terms of other Member States that are economically stronger and more powerful in terms of the construction of measures concerning the state budget. In this part and other measures that are not directly related to the state budget, of course the government has watched other Member States do so since we are EU members. Indeed, it is one graduation and degree of measures, so that the synchronicity and solidarity of all participants is now extremely important and not only as a flossula, and not only as a flossula, but also as an necessity to overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199143	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the proposal, actually, a set of laws. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, so she is a colleague of Grozdana Peric's. Here you go, after the intervention, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199144	Respect for the esteemed vice president, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, first and foremost to the Government, and we must always respect all the good proposals that are possible to always be accepted and incorporated into even better legal proposals. What we cannot accept at this time, which is this set of your laws, the SDP proposal, primarily because, as you know, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, and unfortunately, the earthquake that took place on the 22nd of this month and last month, so the two situations that were in any scenario were actually amazing. When the government agreed on those first March measures, it was only thinking about what would happen and what would be the consequences of the pandemic, and you know very well that when any measure is taken that all facts must then be considered, all the effects that would be and how such a situation would reflect both on the economy and on private lives, and in the first place on the health of the population or the whole nation. Therefore, when such measures are taken, they must be very well thought out. You have to take full parameters as if you're doing a new budget because all of the details you have to take care of. So in that first set, the measure covered what we had previously adopted, and we cannot say that it was very bad at that moment. The second set of measures came after this not even 15 days and today we adopted it and you must admit that there are many factors involved that have helped and calmed the whole situation and the uncertainty that has been caused by these two disasters. In the first part of the fee itself was 3,250 plus contributions, now it is 4,000 plus contributions, and in the meantime you see that there have been changes in that everything, every employer who fired a part of the worker precisely because of this uncertainty that he will be able to continue to work, has been given the opportunity to bring these employees back, and at this point there are 13,600 employees who then exercise the right, so they do not interrupt the employment relationship and return to the system of work and have the right to compensation of 4,000 kuna increased for the contributions that are once again on the burden of the state budget and what is important to say that the weight of these measures is over 8.5 billion kuna. At this point, we know that over 60,000 taxpayers, or entrepreneurs, have requested this measure and that more than 600 million kunas have already been paid. Very soon, so in the month, and only a practical application was made. What you should also say is that in, that citizenship and what you have in certain legal requirements is actually a request for a moratorium and so on. credit obligations are all understood, but at this point what we have brought is that through the amendments to the General Tax Law we have regulated exactly the possibility of these obligations being suspended temporarily, to stop the implementation and for all other public duties, and it is certainly always a question of what, after 3 months or after 6 months. And it's perfectly justified that we all think about it because each one of us has or has or has credit obligations and certainly doesn't care when that obligation arrives. However, let the government do and do these, these two packages that will be adopted within a very short period of time, and a new measure that will allow citizens to be so much more peaceful and that it can function in this way. It's already mentioned today what happens and when it's going to happen. In fact, it's very important how long it's going to take this particular measure that's caused by Covido-19. And what remains secretly to us in the following certainly 7, 8 if not for many years, which is these measures that will need to be done to help citizens rebuild apartments, houses, historical sights, churches, etc. and we will certainly have much help from EU funds. What we are also talking about when we talk about a set of these measures is about paying VAT, I have already mentioned that in the VAT projection for this year there were over 50 we expect revenue 55 and some billion kuna and now after this everything that happens pandemic, there is no tourism, there is no consumption, and besides these elemental disasters, then we can assume how much impact all this will have on the revenue side of the budget that cannot expect so much charge and which will have to think very much about a lot of other sources of funding. We must not forget that it is already in previous measures that it is possible for companies to private up to 7.5 million traffic or over 7.5 with a 20 per cent or more drop in traffic to 50%, that the possibility of partly prolonging, reprogramming, to write off part of the claim and debt, therefore a large part of these measures has already been consumed and I think that the Government has responded in a very good and rapid way about all of this. What you just insisted on, and this secretary of state expected to answer your question, so it really can't happen if something isn't caused by disease, infection, etc. that pay compensation cannot then be compensated from a source of compulsory health insurance, then there are other measures because you know it is illegal. So you can't prejudge something, so you can't be sick, but there was a measure for it, and there's a way that you can pay off on a different basis, and another way that can be helped, and eventually it's accepted and we finally adopted it. So when we look at the total of these measures that are now over 45 billion kuna plus 20 billion that have reached commitments from previous periods, then you see that the set of these measures is over 9.6% of our GDP, which is certainly more than many other European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199145	Thank you, thank you. We're continuing on behalf of the clubs. Next registered counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, in front of the Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. A colleague of Zekanovic does not have and in accordance with Article 233 he loses the right to talk about this item of the agenda for, throughout the entire debate. We continue with the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, colleagues of Grmoje and colleagues of Bulj shared the debate. First one's a colleague of the Grmoi. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199146	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we warned with that first package of government measures that these measures would not be enough, we said that we needed to go to the write-off, not to the delays, and the government listened to us. At that time, no amendment to the opposition was accepted. Not because these amendments were bad because it proved later that the government was all what we were saying at the Most but also other colleagues actually accepted, but they weren't accepted just because they came from the ranks of the opposition. Today we have the same situation, the second, second round of the Government package, all the amendments we have given have been rejected and it can be concluded that in this crisis situation the opposition shows unity and constructiveness, and by ruling again shows one party boredom. This is what grieves all over this story, and in particular the sadness that those first to be thought of, to whom the first should be intended package they will come third in a row, in the third round after Easter. Our seniors, our pensioners, our unemployed, our blocked and completed. MOST first thinks of you or think of you first, not as the last, as those on which the measures will be taken after the Easter. We asked the Croatian Parliament to continue the session, to support itself or our proposal because we too have a proposal on a moratorium on loans and performances or a proposal from colleagues from the SDP, but we do not even ask for that. Give you your ruling proposal, give your government colleagues your proposal we will gladly raise your hand to him. Our citizens who are the most endangered in our society deserve a peaceful and peaceful Easter, deserve a resurrection without a cold, a resurrection without fear, a Easter in joy with their families. So much for me, and hopefully here you'll change your mind, there's still time, the president of the assembly can call and tomorrow's session of the assembly, the government can give its measures and we'll be happy to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199147	Please stop the time for a moment, thank you. A little intervention. Thank you, ma'am or miss. Here you go, fellow Bull, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199148	My colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representatives of the government, why am I partly disappointed? Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said so too, but it is noticeable in the general public that the opposition is making constructive proposals, and that the Government simply rejects them, and anything proposed constructively by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the opposition accepts it. These measures that the MOST has also given, and we are now discussing the SDP measures especially about the most endangered, about the postponement of the credit, about the delay of the performance, that's what the first tribal is about, the first measure. These people are the most endangered right now. No one would forgive these people, but it would be delayed if they weren't responsible for this crisis. And what he would point to here, today was a vote on the results of Croatian politics, poor conduct of Croatian agriculture, bad leadership, so I gave the law on the ban on the sale of agricultural land. The government rejected it, both foreign and legal, foreign and legal individuals. It is the government of the Republic of Croatia, the honourable representatives of the government, the citizens, if you are looking, who refused to sell agricultural land, refused my proposal to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. And the agricultural land, is, right now, agriculture has said that the wrong policies we had mainly towards agriculture so that it disappoints me that the opposition is constructive at this point, accepts all the proposals that you government representatives make, and you reject all of ours from the opposition, but these are proposals for the benefit of the citizens. Well, a lot of the suggestions I've made for SDP hasn't voted for them, but this is a good proposal, I'll support it. You would hardly accept any amendment, any proposal from the opposition. Why? Because you're using both the crisis and this health and economic crisis exclusively for the PR, and that's not good, everyone here is equal, we're all at risk. Thus, when we are discussing these laws and speaking now with us at Easter today, he represented the council in this crisis, of course, that they should be much, much more constructive from the position of power. If we're looking for a delay, because now it's SDP law, and MOST suggested it, the MOST Club and this and other colleagues in the opposition don't see any reason why you wouldn't accept it and why the government didn't put that measure into emergency procedure and we would vote again today or come tomorrow. And not now for Easter you leave that space, the greatest Christian holiday I congratulate from this place I wish all happy and blessed Easter, the greatest Christian holiday to all our citizens. For days, it was broken whether markets should be opened, so of course the triba with all the respect measures because it is more likely to be infected by the coronary virus in a closed area trade chain, but foreign products are sold there, and domestic products were mostly sold in the markets. Here I hear the announcement now and it is my pleasure that after a long, long application will open up markets that should not have been closed at all, but with all the criteria of respect that the Tribals would respect as in trade chains, but better to buy Italian pomidores, it is better to buy strawberries than this Spain than Vrgoračka, it is better to buy meaning those products. Here, I would say in the end that I am disappointed that we are not continuing to work while all groups of unemployed, retired, particularly completed and blocked and, of course, all these measures he has proposed in this case suggest opposition to what we are leaving. The government could have made this simple, it could have made a proposal for its additions and we could have settled it in this big week before it meant Big Thursday and Big Friday. In this way we would actually come to a solution and a peaceful Easter. In the end, you would wish all the citizens a happy and blessed Easter, hopefully if there are measures here, you see 151 of us here that on this greatest Christian holiday and Croatian believers will have the possibility under all measures either within the sacral churches, either outside churches, here you in the government or in front of churches or in the courtyards will be allowed at least to share, not all, part of the people, the believers can unfortunately have the opportunity to participate in this greatest Christian meanings on Easter, the greatest Christian holiday and the sacrament. And once again, I wish you all a happy and blessed Easter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199149	Thank you. We are continuing to debate on behalf of the club of MPs, next is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, in front of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Taritash. So five minutes dark, five minutes Taritate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199150	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the Crown Virus or Covida-19, no matter what we call it, has caused major changes in our lives. One of these changes will also be seen on the greatest Christian holiday of Easter that we will certainly not be working in a circle of some broader family because everyone is staying home and I really respect that if you are guarding yourself, guarding someone else and keeping everyone around you and we are taking care of it. We sit here at a distance, we don't shake hands, we take care of each other, and when we talk to someone, we use space. And that's all the coronary virus has changed, but something hasn't changed. It did not change that when it comes to opposition proposals that they will get their place in the Croatian Parliament in the worst time, so now not even the evening term, but after the vote, this package of laws won and did not change that when the opposition gives amendments, that these amendments, no matter how reasonable they may be, how helpful they might even be, that they refuse to explain themselves. I'm just going to refer to me as the favorite amendment that was rejected today by our club, we've given an amendment that is related to office leaders and tourism that, because of the Corona virus or Covida-19, they no longer need to know foreign language. So when the coronary is a virus or a Covida-10, those who run offices, they don't have to know foreign language with tourism. And now we say the amendment of my people so don't do crazy things, it has nothing to do with it, and it's being rejected, and it's quite serious, the secretary of state has explained why it's happening, if you're asking me why, I don't know, but it's been pretty serious. But let's get back to this subject. The first set of measures that was in March, I must admit that I'm always somehow trying to understand, so whether or not I agree with that first set of measures that we can call March I understood. We didn't know what the scales were, no matter what the crown was rolling behind the hills when it came to Europe, someone got a little better, someone got a little worse. It was not a willingness to bring some options, or some variants, because it did not know how long this would take. So I had this first set of measures that way. The second set of measures I called April 1 0, because with the certainty that a second set of measures will come in April which we will call April 2 0, all those who spoke can't go in just a delay you have to write off, you have to define something. We spoke as opposition MPs, they spoke to the businessmen, they all said, and in that second set of measures, some things were heard. And you saw that at the vote that was today and that was 130 of us, I don't remember when we were, the last time we were 130 when there was a set of measures or a little less of those Marchs, it just means that after all, the MPs, no matter how we were perceived, are responsible. We are responsible for what we are saying, we are responsible for certain crisis situations and this responsibility and opposition parliamentary deputies are really ready to take over on their backs and no matter what you're discussing and with some things you disagree with and some things you warn us that now the situation is next, which is that we need to support and support a set of measures, but for tango we need two. Tango doesn't go to one, so no matter how you turn around, but the other one's just like that, he's gone to sleep somewhere, and he's waiting somewhere. That's what I'm saying between, so the opposition suggests something, and on the other hand it's a government that's pretty hard to say that these things can't be accepted, but then at some headquarters conferences that I can really say that it seems to me that it's doing a good job, it's using time to deal with some political inexperiences, which is not good. So, at these moments, the opposition has made clear everything from the government that comes, and we conclude that it is good that it will help the citizen, we will support the citizens, but we also think that the time when the opposition proposes something, so sit down, talk, let's talk. And it's not even a problem that then the government in some package April 2 0, May 1 0 or that took what was there and said here we took and said one sentence is the subject of a common agreement. As long as the crown lasts, it should listen to experts and they somehow predict how it will grow, fall, linearly and everything else. What will be the consequences of the Corone or Covida-19 on the economy that no one, regardless of the experiences they have, can predict. It seems to us that this crisis is to be used for a few things. The first thing to take advantage of is a little look at our laws being written. They're being written unreasonablely, written in a way that we don't want them to be understood by anyone, complicated, complicated in procedures, we tend to complicate where we shouldn't. Maybe one of the situations, or the outcome of this crisis, that we all think about it together a little bit. I will only take one example, of course I live in the City of Zagreb, until the City of Zagreb would care, an example of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the behaviour of the City of Gas. People closed the gas in houses that weren't even damaged by the earthquake because they were well built. The gas station said okay, to let you gas out, you have to come to us, you have to fill in 3 or 4 requirements in the context of the crown only you come to us maybe someone has, so we'll split it up and pay 3,000 kuna and then when you do all that, then we'll make a list of priorities and we'll go and release that gas. My people, if it weren't true, it would be for one of those comedies or soap operas, but that's true. So, the first time I heard it from a guy in the city gas station, I was sitting at home, I thought I heard something wrong, I heard something. So, from this crisis, maybe we could come out smarter because look at the e-citizen working neatly, everything works through emails, let's be something smarter and try to see the regulations and see what we regulate and how we regulate it. Another thing we should be able to get out of this crisis, we should be clearly wondering what kind of economy we want for Croatia, whether we want to hang on to tourism, whether we want to only hang on to imports and certain services, or if we think something else is going on here. Today we voted for the amendments to the Agriculture Act, which in the sense of no one at all is disputed, but in the debate we're the Minister of Resorna was with us, we said something we might need to take well-meaningly, we think the time has come when agriculture is for a serious reset. Something about that farm and the way we work is wrong. This is the moment when we can reset ourselves, we can take the green plan that the EU has made regarding climate change, more climate change after 2 months we no longer mention ourselves, and two months ago our mouths were full of climate change, see what the green threshold for agriculture is, and maybe it's a strategy for the development of Croatia's agriculture with some adjustments. From this set of laws, it is especially important that the law which speaks of a delay is related to loans. No, and that's what I said to the secretary of state, and I repeat, and now for the rest of this pay phone, don't let this crisis that's hit us all, we still don't know what the scales are, the ones that come out unscathed or richer, be banks, like it was in every crisis. Let's try to really take care of our citizens and the problems they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199151	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The last reported debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives was a debate reported by counterpart Tomislav Žagar, in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome colleague Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199152	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear State Secretarys and State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. The HSU Club, independent representatives, New Politics and SNAGA will support this set of laws proposed by the SDP Club because one member of our club participated actively in the preparation of these laws. Why is that? Well, this set of laws, first of all, all those measures that the government, which we voted today, are vertical and horizontally expanding. Vertically in the amount of compensation and assistance to be provided, and horizontally to most of our citizens who are not covered by these measures that we adopted here at HS today. Namely, the secretary of state here when she initially explained why the government rejects these bill proposals, I apologize, that's a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club said two important dates, one date was March 19th when the pandemic was declared and the second date was March 22nd when the earthquake was in Zagreb. Why do I mention these two laws? We can see that this process is extremely turbulent and dynamic and that the government, at least so far, has not shown the right way of planning, planning future activities, but is exclusively used for what is otherwise used when steering or managing, requires some kind of feedback, so on 23rd of the earthquake in Zagreb, the 23rd of March center has made a decision to ban leaving the place of residence. Watch out, places of residence, and then this caused a huge amount of passes that were issued because we have 6756 seats in Croatia. That picture shows how things work out only when they come up, and little is planned in advance. Of course, respecting the fact that it's hard to do things and plan ahead. The second thing that matters, as far as these measures are concerned, was not a great situation before the outbreak in the Republic of Croatia. So, even before the outbreak occurred, 140 thousand people were at the Employment Service, but we must not forget the large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had left the Republic of Croatia before that and hired in other countries. We also see that these citizens are returning to the Republic of Croatia, they have no place to go but to the Employment Service, and since the adoption, since the announcement, since the crisis occurred, we see that a large number of citizens have already ended up at the Employment Office. It is true that these government measures can be re-employed and re-received, this amount provided for in the measures. It is seen here that this is a serious, serious crisis and that what the secretary of state has highlighted, and what is the most important parameter in the whole crisis, which is the time of this crisis, which no one can predict how long it will last. So we have an extremely dynamic and busy period in which entrepreneurs will have to respond to the challenges ahead. That's why I think this set of measures is good, but the government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact, the Ministry of Finance, the minister, will have to respond as soon as possible to what kind of rebalancing is expected of the budget in the future. To that question, I think it's going to be the biggest, the biggest challenge on this issue is going to be. And what is crucial is why these measures should be supported. The government will certainly think of them if it does not support them, because although the announcement of this third set of measures will be directed towards citizens, so that it will not be late, because as I said, citizens who are already at the Employment Service, everyone who, whether earlier, has now gone to the Bureau, all who have had problems serving their obligations, especially loans, there are, of course, students, pensioners who find it difficult today. It's hard for them for a number of reasons, and mostly for the fact that their pensions are small, and then this crisis hit them. For all these citizens, therefore, measures should be taken to facilitate and enable them to live and overcome this difficult situation. When GDP is growing, the biggest benefit is those who are richer, but even when GDP falls, it breaks over the back of the poorest, and therefore these measures are very important. In the last debate there when we had in the INA building I mentioned it, I will mention again, that, not by chance, and the financial sector will not hesitate to come out of this process uncircumcised, and in fact they will try to come out uncircumcised in all ways, and that is what the credit rating agency which has reduced Croatia by one degree. Their assessment that GDP would fall by 5%, this could mean according to that rough, budget that the unemployment rate would be 2.5% at least and that is 50,000 people without jobs and these are the things that we will have to answer because it is about citizens who will be out of work, employers of course who will have to close their trades or their businesses and because of these things we need to think about measures as soon as possible and bring them forward. That's why I think this set of measures is good, we'll support them at the club, and I'm telling the government to think hard if he doesn't want to accept the proposals coming from the opposition, and we see that this is the case, so let the public, as soon as possible, have a set of measures that will allow citizens to overcome this crisis and live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199153	Thank you, too. We ended the discussion on behalf of the clubs. We're continuing an individual debate. I'd like to ask Miss for a little intervention, and then a colleague of mine, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the adoption of this second package, I believe that most of these legal proposals on behalf of the SDP Club will be implemented through the regulation and the former provisions of certain laws. Likewise, certain legislative proposals are not intended to say so to the address to which they might be said, but what I think is also why I came forward for an individual debate and wanted to share with you, and also to point out one problem that first and foremost my colleague Lalovac and I have been talking about in this assembly for a long time, which is a liquidity problem. And this directly binds to this law on credit forgiveness because when we talk about liquidity, then citizens are also liquid and liquid. So, did this legal proposal cover all the obligations that Croatian citizens have. Not only do Croatian citizens have only loans, they also have a commitment to leasing societies and a commitment to card houses, a commitment to insurance companies, a commitment to teleopers and a number of other obligations. Therefore, this law, and I think that the Government is thinking about it, must be complete and must cover all aspects of the obligations that our citizens have. Also, colleagues and colleagues should not forget that over the past few years Croatian entrepreneurs from craftsmen have had an extremely high investment cycle, investing money in economic activities. And many of them have found themselves in this package of measures that the government has proposed, which is to pay salaries and not have to pay pension and health for the simple reason, whether because of the provisions of the headquarters, whether because of this or that reason they simply stopped doing business. And we're talking about a moratorium on loans, so we just have to put all of them in those packages. And that's why the law deserves far wider scope, deserves far more attention for reasons, if we don't approach it that way she thinks we're going to make a lot of trouble. The other thing, from a month ago and a few days ago when there was a law on insurance in the assembly I repeat about the responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. To be honest, I expected that both business banks and Leasing companies and insurance companies would come out with some package of their own when this crisis started with one single goal to protect those who bring them profits. Because they, if those who took up credit with them who made insurance policies or who took something to Leasing if they can't pay them first, put them in trouble. So they should be in the interest of finding that first package. And I think the government is talking in that direction. We have heard that the CNB has already brought about certain changes that they can react to, and if in such a way we could approach this problem which I believe is crucial to the state's funding problem in the coming months, then the law would be comprehensive. And it's a good idea for a colleague from the SDP Club to propose it as a law, but this bill of yours solves only one small segment, just one small segment. Because what difference does it make whether you have to pay the loan or whether you need a war lying to society or whether you need to pay the war to the insurance company, no. It's your obligation that if, and what I think is still important at this point, if you work normally, you do business, you get paid, then this measure doesn't have to apply to you. This measure should apply to those who do not function normally, who do not receive salaries and ultimately we as a social state must take care of our citizens. And I'm saying I think the government will come out with a package that will certainly take care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, without intending to tell you, but colleagues and colleagues you've only dealt with this law one little segment, and that's why I wanted to share this debate with you because I think Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199155	We have one replica, please you can stay. He's a friend of Sagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199156	Dear fellow Shuker, I agree with you, it's true it would be very good for the banks to decide to negotiate with their clients to see which way it goes. However, this so you know from experience doesn't work, it just doesn't work, it's about positions of power, banks are extremely powerful compared to their clients, especially citizens. And actually this, as far as I understand it, is going towards the weakest, the most vulnerable, because with them banks are hardly going to negotiate. It is therefore necessary to define legal frameworks to create moratories on commitments, but not in such a way as to further accumulate interest later, but to simply buy that time for these people, so that while they overcome the crisis, they can continue to serve their obligations. Of course you're right when you talk about other obligations, like, according to the Leasing societies and everyone else, but I think it's from the position that it's hard to expect that banks will work that way. They still need to be legally forced to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199157	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199158	Comrade Sagar, that you listened carefully to what they said, I said that legally, if we need to, we need to solve everything. And the normal thing is that we have to think about those who are the most vulnerable, that we have to react here, but I repeat, everyone in their segment is important. And I guess the banks burned after that big crisis 10 years ago and how great they are. The placements had to be converted into non-refundable claims and that they would think and think about how to save those who ultimately bring them profits and repay loans and pay interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199159	Thank you. The next debate is a debate from fellow Pernar. And a little intervention from my colleague Pernar. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199160	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The solutions this government has for the current crisis are not adequate and will not solve it, and I will explain why. The main problem is with loans, by putting on a moratorium, the cause of the problem is not solved. The problem is that these loans will ultimately need to be paid back and that many people living on tourism during the summer months are expensive money to pay off the loan for the rest of the year. However, in this case, what will happen? Moratorium will last, for example. For the next few months, they'll run out of money from the season, it's just a season, for example. failed, which is very likely to happen and suddenly end this extraordinary state of Beroshevo. Yeah, this isn't gonna last forever. And what happens when it goes away? And then the banks will say now, look, there's no state of emergency, the loans have to go back, and the revenues from this summer are gone. Where are these people gonna get your loans back from? They've got nowhere to go. Another problem, all the time this moratorium, interest is accounted for. So are you aware of what that means? Where are people gonna get those interest back from? The legislator doesn't care. Here's an identical example of the work. The government says we're introducing a moratorium to execution. And what does that mean in practice? Well, in practice, it means that the same scheme goes on the same way. It's not going to stop now, it's just going to bring down that waterfall, as soon as these measures are cut off, and the reason for this whole executive hell is that the performances are actually given to public notebooks, which they can account for whatever fees and what ultimately, you have enormous costs of the execution, so people don't necessarily kill the debt for water of 200 kuna, but they get killed by the costs of the execution. They're getting killed by the fee that FINA's taking. FINA is taking an enormous fee. Did the government solve that question? No, I don't. The government neither solves the issue of interest, or there are no interest moratories, nor does it think about what will be left of income with people this summer, and when the moratorium passes, it will have to. Yes, when the moratorium passes and this state of emergency passes, it will have to continue to repay the loan, it has nowhere to go. The government doesn't care about that. This solution that the government has, you know what these solutions are? These are short-term solutions. Maybe the government has a solution to the election of parliamentarys at 9:00. I mean, what's it gonna be in 10, 11, 12, 1, 2, 3. Mesa, 5 months. Next year? And the government doesn't think about it. This is one crazy way, this policy has no vision whatsoever. Also, there's one more thing I want to say. If the population is not divided into young and old, both healthy and sick, and it will go with a general quarantine story that is being imposed on us at all times, it will take a very long time for a critical number of people in the population to get infected and get over the crown. Yeah, that's the problem. It's going to take a very long time, instead of being, because young people, they have no mortality at all, 0.1%. Instead of allowing young people to get over, get immunity, a critical part of the population to have resistance to this virus and end with quarantine measures, quarantine measures will be delayed indefinitely. And you know what kind of solution they're going to offer? Then he'll offer as a solution, what? The vaccine. And then they'll tell my people, we have to protect the weaker. But you all need to be vaccinated. And what about those who refuse to vaccinate? He'll be in trouble again. I don't see where this policy leads, I can't understand people who support the general instead of selective quarantine. I don't know how many more months they're planning on keeping the whole people in this agony because people are mentally firing and they can't take this condition anymore. But nobody cares about that, and half the country's on the minimal, which is what those who are unemployed and who were planning to do, seasons, have nothing to live on, so nobody cares. The state doesn't regulate it at all, I asked Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic, what about those who don't have a fee from the Stock Exchange? What do they live on now that they can't find a job? And Plenkovic says, Alardovic will find a solution. I don't see him yet. When will this solution come? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199161	Thank you, colleague Pernar. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Sasa Djujic, please a little intervention, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues from the SDP. So here's how much the government is interested in our measures and our proposals, this shows that there aren't any MPs in the hall right now except for the SDPs. So, they're full of the mouth of the community and all that... Now you're in, now you're in [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you're in. ... [[Intruder: Mr. Pernar.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199163	Mr. Pernar, Mr. Pernar Mr. Djujic, Mr. Pernar. [[You're in from the outside now.]] Mr. Pernar Mr. Pernar. ... [[Intruder: Yes.]] Mr. Pernar, a reminder [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm not gonna throw him out, but I'm giving him a warning, this behavior is not appropriate. [[Don't kick him out because then he'll say you threw him out on purpose so I can say there's no one but us.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199164	Here, I welcome fellow Pernar who just returned and fellow Shucker who has now entered, thank you very much. So what I'm saying is, this is already the 3rd package of measures SDP is proposing. 3. package, so after the first two of which none of them were adopted, none of them were accepted. So we propose certain solutions and certain measures that the Government then partially accepts after a while. The same thing is with this package. So here and just now, my colleague Schucker said in his debate that we're covering a small part, a small segment of the problem when we're talking about a moratorium on loans, that we haven't fully worked it out and worked it out, let's just say that the government is going to cover that part in its future action, and it's going to work it out together. But he didn't tell his colleague Shuker that our proposals, for example, were not working. He didn't say, because he knows that he's part part of it, part of it's good. I listened well, I heard it all right. Well, what's the problem, you know what my colleague Shucker is? We are proposing these packages because the ruling HDZ has not included the opposition since the first day of the conversation. You didn't turn it on. You can nod all you want. You're not. You are sitting alone with yourself and this second package of government measures that was now, which was delayed in part you presented to your coalition partners, and you did not find it appropriate to invite opposition representatives to this conversation, you did not. Because you don't need us, because you don't care what we have to say, and that shows this hall here today. Empty, just you fellow Shucker, here you are, and colleague Pernar. And my colleague Pernar. ... So when I don't have anyone, how am I supposed to, what am I gonna mention about Sanader when he's not here? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What am I going to say? Who? I mean, what am I going to say, here, a colleague I don't know, who? Who? You tell me, fellow Shuker, when you're alone. There's no one here. Nobody cares. The SDP is a colleague here, is, is, we've had enough. So, look, we suggest, you don't listen, you don't care. Another thing again, so it's not the devil that none of our proposals are right. We are in this package of measures, I am now not going to enter into each individual, but colleagues Bernardic and Lalovac said in the introduction, this is the third package that includes citizens, citizens who are also the most socially endangered of whom the government has not considered at the moment. I'm not saying he won't think in his third package. But I don't understand why the opposition isn't involved. You say, "Here's a good suggestion, and you didn't even bother to fix it." So today we wouldn't be discussing this or counting here if Prime Minister Plenkovic's first day had called all the presidents of the opposition parliamentary parties and said, let's hear, let's all heads together, who has any suggestions. So maybe one part of our measures would be included already in the government's package and instead, and all the time you're talking here, make suggestions, thank you, but that's not enough. It's not good, but we're going alone. We only represent coalition partners. Gentlemen, this concerns the entire country, both left and right and all citizens, not just HDZ and its coalition partners. And for that, here we appeal to you, let us in, so we can't wait until you remember something, until you remember citizens with credits. Well, we had to propose a law. We don't have another model. Our representatives didn't sit with the government's representatives at the meeting so they could make some kind of suggestion there, so here you are, fellow Shuker, you complete it and you say, and you made a good proposal. Here, there's only the ones with the loans, there's no lying, there's no insurance houses, there's no such thing as that, so we could do a whole proposal together. And this is how we have to make suggestions when you don't listen to us, you don't want to hear us. You're saying it's not time for politicizing, and it's yesterday as a charger. Plenkovic, Sanader, Bozinovic, in his uniform on the fifth, 5th day in a row, calls counterpart Bernardic and SDP. That's, what's that? That's not politicizing? You've got suggestions, you've got suggestions, we'll respect everything, you don't respect anything today. You haven't accepted any of our amendments today. So what exactly are all our suggestions stupid? Well, I didn't realize it from your discussions that we're proposing nonsense or stupidity, but even praise it, but look, what, we're enough for ourselves. That's not good. We're not at war, but we're not in any ordinary condition. And not to mention, this session procedure, first in that building of INA over there, and today here and limiting replicas and speeches, I hope that from the 15th time we get back to our building things will go back to normal. I don't have any more time, but I expect we'll get back to normal and start listening to us as an opposition. Because, look, this situation will pass, I hope as soon as possible. Maybe in a month, maybe in two. Maybe in 3 and then they'll [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to file accounts. [[Intruder: Stay here.]] So it won't be binco Support, we can all the time... [[We have 3 replicas.]] Okay, thank you, here, just to finish the thought. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199165	Thank you. A colleague of Hajdukovic's. Here's the first replica, the second one's a colleague of Shucker's, then a colleague of Jagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djujic, you're talking about a call for community, this lack of respect for the opposition, so I'd just like to go over there and say that HDZ calls for consensus and for community only when it suits them. And you know how they experience that unity and consensus? "Here you can back us up." And we are not criticizing or criticizing, nor criticizing, but making concrete suggestions. Yeah, maybe some of our proposals aren't perfect, but that's why, in the debate, we should all come up with the best proposals to protect our citizens. And.../incomprehensible... when we do that to HDZ, they reject it. And therefore, I fear that these measures will eventually turn out to be flawed in a lot of things, that they will change many times, that they will contribute to the uncertainty of the labour market and the market in general in the economy and we will actually produce exactly the counterproductive effect of what we wanted, which is to protect citizens, workers, but also entrepreneurs and economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199167	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199168	Comrade Hajdukovic, of course, that all our measures are not perfect, such as the Government's all measures. But two heads are smarter than one, and that's what we've been trying to do all along to deal with this crisis, not to have the HDZ running its story. Well, look, they dropped the Parliament, that debate in the INA about that package last time was nothing, what pro-forma, out there at the President of the Parliament saying you have the right to 2 replicas per club. So they don't even want to listen to us. They won't listen to us today. So it's not going anywhere. So, we should, this is not a HDZ crisis and its coalition partners, but all of Croatia's citizens, and we must have the opportunity to talk together and all the best, every party, every political option that has in its ranks to make it easier for the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199169	Thank you. Next replica, fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199170	Thank you very much. Well, it's not good to say things that aren't right. I'll use the softest expression, if my colleague Bauk were here, he could confirm to you that the Prime Minister has summoned all these leaders and opposition parties and clubs and has exposed them to measures to discuss. So much for that, that's the facts. Secondly, I think my personal debate today was about discussing the subject. Third thing, colleague Djujic, we've known each other for a long time. I was expecting, since I'm the only MP from the opposition here, that you're going to try to put in some arguments to convince me that something is not contained in the existing laws, that I did something wrong. You've been talking all along about how someone like this, how you're somebody like that. Okay, that's what you said, that's what your colleagues will say, but explain why your laws are good, I even said that one law and missed a target because those funds can't pay off what they're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199171	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199172	And fellow Shuker, I expected you to convince us why our laws are not good and that the government did better than us and that we should give up. But on the contrary, you said that one segment did well in this moratorium law on loans, so what do I have to explain to you that this is a good move? Well, you know it better than I do, you said it yourself. In fact, you've spread the story that we haven't covered the Leasing Houses, that we haven't included insurance companies, so here's what we talked about before, we could have given one quality whole law together. And when you said we didn't sit down, that we didn't, that, uh, Comrade Bauk, here he came now, that the Prime Minister invited them to that first package of measures that the entrepreneurs and all welcomed to the knife together. This last vote we voted here today at noon you presented to coalition partners on Thursday and on Friday came to debate after a hasty procedure in HS, i.e. in the basement of the INA on 2 representatives per club. And we couldn't make a contribution, no one listened to us, no amendment was adopted, today Here, who's listening to us? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Who are we talking to?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199173	Thank you. Last replica, colleague Sagar Comrade Sagar, here you go. [[Intruder: My emotions are working.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199174	Dear colleague Djujic. So, you said it right. The situation is quite complex, and when you say that we're going back to normal, then you should keep in mind that this return will be extremely difficult. It is clear that there will be a danger to the health of citizens and that at that moment citizens will start living normally. But back to those positions that weren't good before this crisis, I'm talking about economic situations where citizens were and the economy is going to be difficult to achieve, let alone what we planned before this crisis in terms of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. So it's very important that the government listens to you now, that it really listens to all the good advice because at this point we're just responding to what's happening right now. We are not thinking about what will happen in the future, and in these measures there are many proposals that will affect the future, and so we need to think about what will be in the future because we already need to know what it is, what kind of rebalancing the government will have to propose soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199175	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199176	My debate was like this because five minutes is really little to explain and to explain each of these measures. I think some of them are making their own argument. But why was I talking about this debate? That's because I'm afraid, and I see it, that the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic don't care what we think or care about. There's one proof today. So today he's talking about this law on tracking. He talks, he says, well, you gave all the data to Facebook and Google, so why don't you give it to HDZ? Why don't you give us, too, even so they follow you, so let's follow you. And then the journalists tell them, but it wasn't adopted in the Parliament, today it's, it's a decision to go to another reading, then he says, and well, it's not today, it's going to be adopted next week. So here's how HDZ sees us as the most representative or legislative body in the country. And for that reason I appeal once again to HDZ and to the government, please include representatives of the opposition, listen to us, tell us, this is stupid, this is smart, but we are going together to look for solutions for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199177	Thank you. Next individual debate... The next individual debate is a debate by colleagues from Peja Grbina, here are some interventions. Here you go, buddy Grbin, here you go, thank you. Careful fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199178	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will concentrate on two things that matter to me personally, and I also believe that they are important to a large number of Croatian citizens, and one especially to people from the area I come from, from Istria and the entire Adriatic coast. The first thing is, of course, a moratorium on loans. Dear fellow Shuker, saying just before me, said the law proposed by the moratorium on loans was missing. My answer is, okay, but unlike the government's proposal, at least he exists. The government has not proposed such a missing proposal, the government has proposed nothing. The government has only left it to banks and bankers that, on the basis of their own decision, their own goodwill, their own profit assessment, solve the problem of postponing the loan with their debtors. And what does it look like in practice? A few people came to me, for example, one lady has a loan, she's been paying him off for a while, 3,000 kuna, exactly 2700 kn per month. She will have to pay 6,000 kuna additional interest for the six-month delay, 6,000 kuna. 1,000 kunas have calculated the monthly bank's interest. A gentleman contacted me last year who took a loan, also at war about 3,000 kuna per month, but because he took the loan last year at this point mostly pays interest, and the principal will come in line for some better days. He will postpone by 18,000 kuna for the six months he would have paid during that period of 6 months, so to get a delay in the payment of 18,000 kuna which he will definitely have to pay, to him, the interest for those 6 months exceeds the amount of 12,000 kuna. 12,000 kuna additional interest will be paid to the bank on his loan. And you know what the worst part of it still has to be solemnized by the credit contract annex, and as an amount of course, it will account for the full amount of credit, which means that it will still have 1,500 – 2,000 kuna. So he's going to be spending six months on 15 thousand kunas. For a delay in payment of 18,000 kuna, they will pay 15,000 kuna. With all due respect, it's neither moral nor fair, nor useful. The delay, without the simultaneous delay of payment of interest or the release of interest payments, is not intended. It is only temporary assistance to citizens and citizens who will pay you the same citizens and citizens extremely expensive one day when they start returning credit. And what else is going to happen? Given the duration of only 6 months, and it is evident that many will not return to the position of paying off the loan even longer after that since it only lasts 6 months it does not achieve real effects. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, if you want to help Croatian citizens and citizens, Croatian society and the Croatian economy you do not have to accept the SDP proposal, I support what my colleague Schuker said, make it comprehensive, refer it to the procedure, I will first, I will raise my hand to him first, but you must, you must suspend the course of interest during the delay, otherwise there is no purpose. The other problem I want to talk about is the renter's problem. Household owners do not pay income tax according to actual income, but pay it according to the flat-rate rate determined according to the number of bearings in the frameworks of the prescribed law. Last year we raised the amount of sheets, we made it possible for local self-government units to go up to 1,500 kuna instead of a maximum of 300 kuna earlier, I'm talking about income tax rate, to make it quite clear. So we increased the amount multiplely and it was introduced to pay for additional beds, which was not previously the case. At present, as far as I'm aware, most or almost all of the shoppers have been delayed. However, it is quite clear, it is clear that income from the tourist season in these three months, so 4, 5 and 6, and probably not even afterwards. The delay is fine for now, but please, before the period on which the delay is given, bring a measure of the write-off of the flat-rate income tax from the tenant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199179	Thank you. Stay here please, you have one replica. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199180	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, I had to intervene because my colleague Peja is a lawyer, and I wouldn't want to give him a lecture, but when you have a loan, then you get a payment plan. In the payment plan you have a monthly war that contains war and contains interest and a bank if you do not need to pay the principal, but you have to pay the corresponding part of the interest and that is what we all need to talk about why I said it wasn't just loans to Croatian citizens and businessmen that it has full, but such a figure when you bring it out it's totally incorrect because you're not talking about the same thing, it's not interest on funds that haven't been paid for 3 months. I repeat, when you raise a loan, when you enter a Leasing relationship or anything else you get a payment plan and it is clearly based on the law you know what it contains. So this information of yours is not correct, you got it wrong, and you unfortunately misread it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199181	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199182	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My esteemed colleague Shuker didn't get it from me, it was obtained by citizens from banks asking for a postponement of the loan. It was given to the citizens of the banks, the citizens got this bill, and the banks want to charge them for it. And by the way, I know very well that there's interest on the capital. If the loan payment started last year, then you and I know very well that the principal remained intact. And that six months of paying interest on that principal will be very difficult for whoever's taking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199183	Stay still here was still a replica of a fellow Laloveca.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199184	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms I see you mentioned the tenants, but certainly what should be noted is that the government has unfortunately not thought about those who are in the lease of business premises, which are now closed business spaces and when there is no, means the contract between the tenant and the tenant is now zero kuna. However, there is no clear answer from the tax administration or the Government whether they will be charged at market value for this lease, so all these people who rent business premises will receive a fee for either VAT or income tax. So here you're talking about one category, but I think this category, too, means that they're renting business premises so that in 3 or 6 months, VAT or income taxes don't come out, especially when the market doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199185	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199186	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague, but first of all, he would direct his own representatives to the government. Last week I spoke about the problem of renting a business space and there are two problems. The first is the one you addressed, which is the fact that many tenants have freed their tenants from the rent because they are aware that they need good, good people. At the same time, however, regardless of the amount not paid by the lease, the tax administration accounts for the value added tax, but also the income tax or profit tax, and that by assessment. It's not right, and I think the ministry should address it in the relevant tax laws. However, there is another problem, and I ask you to transfer this to the Minister of State Property, which is the problem that there is no possibility in the Law on the Hire of Business Space that there is no possibility that, any state, any local self-government of freedom of the tenants from the obligation to pay or to reduce that obligation. So... We have to change that law, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199187	Thank you. Comrade Matteljan, here you go, no need for intervention, colleague Grbin didn't touch the work space, but fine, if you want then... Well, fellow Mattelian, Mathelan. Damir Mateljan, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Secretary of State. The SDP shows itself in this crisis situation, acts as a responsible and serious party. On the one hand, this is affirmative, so we have accepted in two rounds a package of measures that the Government has sent to debate in this House, which concerns helping those who are at risk of spreading the COVID-19 virus. On the other hand, we're bringing, we're proposing our own measures that unfortunately come across something like this. So, uh, the government's self-interest, the self-interest of ruling MPs actually tells us what the government thinks about these measures, or what they think about the SDP and what they feel unfortunately about the opposition. The government when it also adopted that first set of measures, including the law that we had not debated, is the Civil Protection Act, saying, so on these measures, the Government has also urged the local state to also plant its financial backs and that it is also the local state that will adapt some of its measures to help all those, whether they are citizens or those companies that have died in this crisis. The local state has also done so in a way that it could, freeing the municipal fee, the communal contribution itself, paying the market price of kindergarten so that they can survive, however, what the government did not say, what is in some way not being said, and in this House I have not heard, let alone in the media, and that is that it is, in fact, with those first and other measures that the local state has just planted its back for reasons, because that financial burden on those measures that go as free entrepreneurs is just directed at the only tax, on the only real tax which is exclusively a tax belonging to local self-government, which is income tax. Without income tax, which accounts for almost 70% of all original incomes from local self-government, local self-government can survive this month to two days. Those who are with... Which so far seemed to us to be highly developed areas, won't last a month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is very important to tell people that this one will not have preschool education, that their infrastructure local will be able to disintegrate, that there will be no public lighting, that there will be no public transport, or people need to tell, that these measures will partially save the economy and that they will completely destroy the level of local self-government that we have achieved so far. It will simply be so if we don't come up with compensatory measures that no one talks about, and I understand why no one talks about compensatory measures because there is no money for compensation measures. So when we talk about planting the backs of local self-government, then there are things that don't have just financial weight, but also that organisational weight. The famous name around the pass. Finally, the public and the government have realized that there are over 300 units of local self-government that are simply not functionally whole and cannot function in a way that in that unit local self-government citizens can achieve both rights and all their therefore things they must do, such as, the most banal going to the bank, to the post office, to the pharmacy because you have municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have no banks, no post office, no pharmacy, no elementary school or anything else. And this depends not only on their size or their critical mass, but on their capacitation, both to people and to their financial capacitation. I don't know how much time I have left, so I'm going to figure it out. So usually after all these crises we like to go out with that sentence that's total flossula, which is, we're going to come out of this crisis even stronger and stronger. [[/Intruder: 15.]] We won't. So we'll get out of this crisis weaker and worse. But I hope at least So wiser that what concerns [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The local self-government will go into this reform of the local self-government reform. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199189	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Gordan Maras, colleague Maras, come in. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. I must admit that, I have, I feel strange in this hall and all this together when a man looks at you a little bit sorry and people who work here in the organization and people from HRT because you have a feeling that this is being done as a tower at the moment of the whole situation, or the system of decision-making in the Republic of Croatia, where we, as the Croatian Parliament, are moving from the hall to the hall from Šubićeva to INU, might now be able to go to another hall, in another town, I think that the institution as a Croatian Parliament must participate more and decide in the whole crisis that is happening in the Republic. So, if as a state we do not respect our institutions, if we have a meeting president who here says that the Rules of Procedure are 100% non-respectable, I think it is one of the most recent statements I have heard in the Croatian Parliament or on the other hand says about 129 votes, it sends you a message in fact that the Croatian Parliament as an institution at the moment seems to bother the HDZ, which is also seen from the overall behaviour, work, and at the end of the day and the situation which is now the government in this Chamber, where there is usually no one else. And on the other hand, discussing such important issues in these circumstances sounds pointless, because you see that you're proposing things, very serious things. Because when you propose that citizens do not pay for a year, they have a moratorium on loans it is a very serious thing for Croatian citizens, perhaps of crucial importance to survive the next year, which will be marked by crisis, loss of work, loss of income from tourism and all that is, then I think that such a topic is shown respect for both Croatian citizens and parliament to discuss under normal conditions in front of parliamentary representatives that this topic is accepted with respect and that we eventually come together to a certain solution. Because if the opposition supports the government's measures, so what is not logical is that instead of Vice-President Sanader giving lessons to opposition deputies he takes into account what the opposition is proposing. And the other thing when we suggest also one measure, means that when it comes to parents who at the moment have a problem with organising their lives in general how to educate children, how to stay at home, how to go to work, how to combine it all together, you can't use it in the most part of the grandparents' cases because if parents do, they're exposed, so they can pass on to their children, and then their parents can't look after their children because they can get infected too, so they're huge problems. And if, at that point, we suggest that we take a model by which one parent can stay at home and pay for sick leave, as the Health Insurance Act covers some other examples, so that's a very important topic. It deserves to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, it deserves to be heard, it deserves to be considered and perhaps accepted. We can't accept the situation where the secretary of state comes and says he's not authorized to talk about it here because like he's not the finance minister or not the prime minister, they're the only ones who can. Well, we don't live in a monarchy, where one person decides what can be done, what can't be done. Although it looks like some of them are just fine with you. We live in a parliamentary democracy where parliament plays its part and I am dissatisfied with how it all works now, and I must admit that I will talk about it in the future and when we return to the Hall of the Croatian Parliament and appeal here and to the people sitting in the presidency of the assembly, and I will certainly speak to the representative of our club to simply not allow such a situation. So we live in parliamentary democracy, we're responsible people, we can contribute to this situation as painlessly as possible for our fellow citizens. We don't agree with the statements he made before Mr. Pernar I think that this time we're fighting a crisis is good, that we're all satisfied that we have very few infected and deceased in relation to other countries and we support it and we will continue to support it if it works in a quality way and on the other hand if we can participate We want to participate, we want to enable solutions that will help Croatian citizens to get through this crisis as well as we can and the more painlessly we can not do anything to get Croatian citizens to live normally as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199191	Stay here, please. We have two replicas. He's my first colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199192	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I also think that measures and what the government is doing at this point are good and that it gives good results, and we, with our SDP, as a constructive opposition with our proposals just want it to be better, especially with this third package of measures. We are thinking about the time that comes after this health crisis, meaning in a few months, because we, with our package of measures, have included exactly those citizens that the Government has not included in its activities so far. And that's why I think we should maybe listen a little bit more. And as for the functioning and work of the assembly, I agree with you and I will talk about it all the time and keep warning about it and I want once again here to underline the line that these 15 days, 20 as far as we're not in the building of the Croatian Parliament, but in the basement of the INE there are no days we joined in the order that we have the same rules. So, not to disrespect the Rules of Procedure, but there are no agreements, because today it's worth one thing, tomorrow it's worth something else, then the day after tomorrow it's worth the third, then one chairman respects one rule, the other, and that's not good. We have a Rules of Procedure which is a sacred letter to us in all situations, if anything needs to be changed, then we need to change the Rules of Procedure and we all need to adapt to that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199193	Okay, thank you, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199194	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. I think that if we function as a rule or not, by 100% of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djujic has taken 1% of the time limit on the replica, so anyone can choose for themselves if the rules don't apply to everyone. And on this side, I ask you to pass it on to the President of the Croatian Parliament that we want to function normally and that all of this together is quite nothing and that in some way Croatian citizens deserve to do it in some normal conditions, to transfer their problems, to try to solve their problems and to contribute together to this crisis as soon as possible and to allow Croatian citizens to have confidence in the institutions that represent them. The message that none sits here except Mr. Shucker of HDZ MPs is a message that automatically denys the call on joint action by HDZ [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's absolutely visible from what's going on here. [[Intruder: Next replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.]] So... HDZ with a figure in its pocket calls all opposition parties... [[/Intruder: Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199195	Comrade Maras, please. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199196	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I absolutely agree with you in your qualifications that parliament should behave in crisis situations. For example, the Hungarians had a very good solution before this happened, namely that Orban received such broad powers. According to their Constitution, in the event of an emergency, parliament is constantly sitting, no one can disband it and every 15 days the government should submit a report to Parliament which, on the basis of this report, then extends or reduces, or extends the state of emergency. The role of Parliament here should be crucial precisely because of what we talked about. Some measures are imperfect and just in the discussion with more ideas and from multiple sides and more angles, we can come up with quality solutions. One of these is the staying of one parent at home and because of small children and because of the risk of transmission of infections, so we also protect the health of the population, protect jobs because the state jumps in where it can and we try to help as much as possible. Our citizens to adapt to the new creation [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a situation. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Hajdukovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199197	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199198	Thank you. I absolutely agree with you, and I think that in this situation the most we could do is help us, given that hundreds of citizens who share their problems with us every day are talking to us. But I ask you, if we are calling for joint action and unity, where is Jandrokovic now? Where's Branko Bacic? Where are all these HDZ people who need to discuss with us the proposals that help Croatian citizens? Di, where's Ante Sanader who called the opposition SDP yesterday if he hadn't suggested anything constructive? Where are these people, why aren't they taking part here with us in this debate? Why don't they say if our proposal is good or bad? Can it or cannot it be applied? Which is why it does not allow Croatian citizens to go peacefully to Easter and not think about paying off their loans and not leave them at the mercy of their banks. Believe me, if we don't set the rules the way To be for all [[Intruder: Time.]] identically, that people know transparently what their right is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Which is what it isn't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Banks will do so in his arrangement. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] I think that It's not correct and yes [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] We should put it that way. [[Intruder: Comrade Hajdukovic, please prepare for discussion.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199199	Thank you. Please, intervention, colleague Hajdukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Here you are Mr. Hajdukovic, please, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. Here you are, colleague Hajdukovic.]] Well, unfortunately, this crisis has shown how unprepared we are for these situations in every sense. In economics, I would dare say politically, which, we are witnessing right now, organisational, logistics, social, etc., etc. Let's just take the farm. This crisis has shown our agricultural production on its knees, which is simply a victim of many years of bad policy, poor direction, non-strategic thinking. That's right, so unfortunately we're victims and in a political sense because we don't have enough culture politically to listen to everything, all the suggestions, all the problems on the table and try to deal with these problems together. I fear that HDZ's unity is only, that is, their calls for unity are only when it suits them and that their perception of community and consensus is based on "that is what you can support us, we allow you to support us". But it's not the point, it's not the purpose of parliamentary democracy. Just because there are more of us from different parts of Croatia, from different segments of life in Croatia, we can give better suggestions, we can warn of some of the problems that perhaps the Government or we as legislators have initially missed and may warn of some things that may later have serious repercusions. One of them is definitely paying off citizens' loans. Why? Many were financially planning differently, things that are unfortunately very difficult, since this epidemic, I read in one medium that about a thousand people get fired daily. If that's true, it's a terrible piece of information. In the meantime, there was also an earthquake in Zagreb, so many families in Zagreb are exposed to an additional unplanned cost of housing adaptation, if they were lucky that their apartments were still useful. For all these people, the postponement of payments, or the moratorium on the payment of loans per year, will mean little space for, to catch air, to be financially consolidated and to continue to pay their commitments. Without that beginning, I'm afraid it'll be very difficult for them, that many won't be able to repay their debts, many will lose their jobs in the meantime, we don't know how further the pandemic situation will move, as far as the economy is concerned, so we're trying to solve this equation with all the unknowns so that at least one acquaintance can be introduced into it. Also, no one has mentioned seasonal employees except for our measures so far, the 3rd package of measures. Or permanent, so-called. Permanent season. There are slightly less than 6 thousand in Croatia. These are people who, during the season, make about 6 to 7 months enough to survive the whole year and thus service their debts and all the other financial obligations they have. Since nothing's happened since the season, we need to think about protecting these exactly, slightly less than 6,000 people. If we're counting on it to be 6,000 families, then you can imagine how much repercussion could be if we don't adequately protect them. Also, people who have been fired as a consequence of the crown will be a major problem or we need to help them and take care of them, help them to stop their feet and serve them in their short - term financial obligations if God gives them no credit. Also, no one mentions employees who are at the Bureau who have no compensation. What's the number of people like that? So they have no right to any compensation for various reasons, which now because of a crisis that will become and grow into an economic crisis have no right and have no perspective of finding a job soon. It's the same segment of people we have to worry about and who we have to help. Therefore, as I have said, our measures may not be perfect, neither are the government's measures, but I believe that with one different approach, in a broader dialogue and in a dialogue with more respect, above all, from the ruling to the opposition, there would be much more quality proposals. Because I am afraid that these government proposals will need to be corrected more than once, that they will be subject to quite frequent changes and that this will create additional uncertainty among citizens but also in the economy because of the constant changes in market conditions, whether labour, whether the economy, or markets in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199201	Please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199202	My colleague Hajdukovic and I, with this proposal, are essentially concerned about citizens who have not yet felt this crisis. So, you said yourself when this health problem goes down for, we hope as soon as possible that a part of the people except for those who are unemployed and who live on the edge of poverty and those who stood up to yesterday will feel this crisis very well. And now let's say I set an example, today at the 2nd month of this year the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was about 6,500 kuna, I'm going to stick to those figures. So someone who had 6,500 kuna before this pandemic, took out a loan, planned his own life, got hit by this situation, and, say, most employers put these workers on a minimum or these 4,000 kuna due to government measures. So these workers lost 2,000, 2,500 kuna, and they'll only feel that later. This moratorium on loans means a lot to them, and it makes the situation much easier because other than preserving jobs, we encourage and spending citizens right now. in this way that these funds can be spent. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199203	Thank you, colleague Giujic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199204	I agree, fellow Djujic, that the crisis will end today, the consequences will be great and long-term. So we can't predict how many more people will lose their jobs, unfortunately, how much pay cuts, purchasing power, if it comes to question and swearing courses, it's also going to be a big problem. So there's a lot of problems waiting for us. But the same thing that's important for us to point out when we talk about our moratorium law, I think it's that those who have a good financial situation don't have to use this law. So those who have regular incomes, which will continue to have regular incomes, can choose to continue to service their debts to banks. That way, they won't be cut off as far as the payment plan or the end of their commitment to the bank is concerned, as they planned, but unfortunately I'm afraid they'll be in your minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199205	Thank you. I would like a little intervention and an individual debate from colleague Karolina Leaković. Here you go. Last reported debate, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, if we are in a crisis without precedent, and we are in the midst of the worst yet to come, and then, at least economically, then from the government and the political and economic elite as residents, it is certain that we have the right to expect solutions that will benefit the largest number of people. And these people who live on their work, not on capital, not on rent, not on inheritance, not on the accumulated, but on people, and these are the ones that live in Croatia the most, in fact, on their fair salary regardless of whether it is earned in trade, in the food industry, in transport, in services, in schools, in the hospital or in the office. If we work indefinitely on a particular one, then our contracts are extended every, every few months, maybe not always in accordance with the law, and we know that there are such situations too. He knew that the government declaredly insists on community, it's not a new word discovered, but it seems to me that for this government, a new word has been discovered, or one that is very often in the use of last weeks of solidarity. We're saying that the health crisis, or the government, is saying that we need to overcome the health crisis with common forces, appeal to the responsibility of each and every one of us, and I can certainly agree with that and I can support it. Of course, if we are not deprived of human rights in this government’s once unnecessarily restrictive decisions and, of course, if we are not deliberately deceived and tried to hide some information. We know that we have recently had such a case with the purchase of medical equipment, and we have had one case with a secret meeting in the government between the prime minister, the culture minister and the editor-in-chief of several media houses on which, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not want to present details and did not answer any questions about the meeting. The public and journalists must never, nor in this situation, remain deprived of the answers to questions about how decisions are made, why the main editors of some media houses were invited to a meeting in the government and what they were promised, to report on government measures that they would receive in return. So, unlike this solidarity when it comes to the health crisis and the epidemiological measures, when it comes to economics, I think it's hard to agree that we're all on the same boat, that it's the same for all of us, that the crisis on all of us is the same, that we all have to tighten the belt, that either we're all gonna challenge and save private entrepreneurs and their property, or we're all going to fail, and that it's not the time to question each other, and it's especially not the time to insist on working rights, on collective contracts, on collective agreements, on coefficients, says cut yourself immediately and now without any renunciation, etc., in other words socialize or share private losses, and we don't touch private profits. It has already been said today on several occasions that we have not seen how the banks have reacted in this crisis whether they have submitted part of the burden. They did not bear part of the burden, however, we saw that the owners of private companies better sent their workers and most of their workers to the stock market immediately, although perhaps they should not have done so. If we ever find out, so what is the number of those who immediately sent workers to the stock market and before measures, we will, of course, ask the Ministry of Labour and HZZ. We know there's no write-off for citizens, no lifting unnecessary banking obligations, no abandonment of performances, no appraisals. We still haven't actually made a decision about parents who care for children who don't go to school and kindergarten to determine what SDP is looking for today. We also did not make a decision that even now unemployed who have worked less than 9 months in the past 24 months have the right to compensation, this should certainly be taken into account. And there are a lot of problems that people warn us about, so I will take advantage of the opportunity with us of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health to warn him of a letter of 17 March which she sent to the Ministry, directed the Croatian Association for Rare Diseases, which warns of a special situation involving employees who are at the same time patients with autoimmune diseases, parents of chronically ill children who raise their voices and warn that they have to work, and they are very exposed to the group, so I call on the ministry to take care of their health. Ideas for the State to be a cornerstone of economic policy, economic activity to use this crisis to change the dominant political economic paradigm, in fact, in the Croatian Parliament, we have yet to hear and I appeal in this regard. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199207	Thank you. And my last debate with my colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last few weeks a paradigm of relations with state institutions has changed. The rule so far is to say so to the public or most citizens in some vague situation between institutions and individuals as a rule stood aside from individuals. And lately, in this vague situation between individuals and institutions, they tend to side with the institution especially if it's the police about healthcare professionals or about someone from these now we call it the more popular service represented by the state. It is good when institutions gain greater trust from citizens, but it is never good to give non-critical trust to anyone, to either individual or to institutions. Therefore, they should always be questioned and treated critically. One of the equative examples was the police's conduct in the case of two citizens in Split who wanted to take a walk, and then there was, I would say training, unnecessary training of strictness against individuals, and there was a journalist there and it became generally known. We have then a reverse case, so in front of a church also in Split police showed much more tolerance, patience towards a priest who invited people to mass, and when the officers came to warn them that it was a violation of the headquarters's recommendations then he fell into an argument with a policeman that a police officer had finally had to interpret something from a religion, it was perhaps excessive tolerance, but somewhere between this situation the increased power of the institution I would say in relation to the rights of the individual should find a good balance. This is why it is good for us to talk about this in the Croatian Parliament live at the thematic session of the Committee on Human Rights. So, on one portal came an article about what all citizens ask the attorney general, I wouldn't say that it was an explanation of litigation with state institutions, it was really about certain individual problems of life that people came across because of this epidemic and the rapid ones, but when the measures were faster then they weren't enough, there wasn't enough thought about possible side effects that I believe had time to think about them further to be avoided. What do all the citizens actually write to the D.A.? So most often it's about people who got fired, and for various reasons they can't exercise their rights as unemployed people. Then it is about students who, because of their inability to work during the epidemic, cannot be supported and asked the competent authorities to assist students in the form of a delay in the payment of tuition. Afterwards, citizens have problems communicating with HZZ, and related to the exercise of the right for the unemployed. Most often they fail to obtain feedback on who is processing or their demands and fail to exercise rights. They are particularly numerous citizens who have jobs but who fail to work because of their obligations to young children in circumstances where kindergartens and schools are closed, then they do not know how to take care of children when they have to work again because of the end of their vacation and sick leave, then they state that despite their open-label care, employers call them to return to work, then others report that the employer determines 7-day work without rest despite the care of underage children, and then ask that the employer asks them to work even though he has not provided them with protections such as masks and gloves, then the worker reported whose employer requests to come to work personally even though he does not live in a city where he works and depends on public transportation and can't de facto come. The employers are also reporting. And that's to say, someone hired two seasons, but now he doesn't know what to do with them and their compensation, and in the end we have cases because of these passes, so he can't worry, come to visit a child living in another municipality, and he doesn't get a pass. Retired people who can't go to a bank, to a pharmacy, etc., or to a post office to raise a pension because they don't have a post office. And all these problems, I'm here, as long as I have time to count, require reaction, require reaction. an institution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199209	First, it's Mrs. Crescent. Buric, she can have an intervention at any moment, please, then colleague Schuker. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199210	Thank you. Thank you so much, Vice President HS. So, very briefly. We are here today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 5 state secretaries from 5 different ministries, now the two of us have delivered an oral opinion on the SDP package and by the fact that we were 5 out of 5 different ministries, I think it's a very clear message of respect for the promoter and I'm not saying it at all that I would be pathetic but very honest and open. Health is not everything, however, all without health is absolutely nothing and it is a saying that is more than ever proved true today. What I am also glad is that today most are in a direct or indirect way, regardless of what political groups came from, that parliamentary representatives and MPs have said that this double crisis that we are facing is strategically well-led and that we have good governance. Moreover, this is what we are talking about today, which is a package of measures, which, which is unlegislative, this government, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, has provided only so far 65 billion kuna and what I must mention, is that it is neither the first nor the last package of measures. You know that yourself. - Mrs. Crescent. Leakovic asked a question about people who had lost their jobs in this crisis, and that is why we are talking about the number of about 13,000 people, newly unemployed, which is why the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, or the executive body of the Croatian Employment Service yesterday, included in the criteria for obtaining support for the preservation of jobs, the possibility that employers who report to this support should these people return to work, that they can get that support for them too, so we are talking about support from 4 thousand kuna. There he is. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199211	Stay, you have one more replica, please. Thank you very much. [[- Yeah, good.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk. [[Intruder: Please.]] Thank you. So then, no, no, wait, wait, there's another line, don't leave yet, there's a colleague named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199212	Thank you. State Secretary. It's a good-looking jump, "Health isn't everything, but without health, we're nothing." Did I quote correctly? [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] The saying, it's more to me, it's to be honest, it's more to me to jump. [[Intruder: Proverbs.]] But health protection can't be a front for anything to be done. You can't do everything. So, you need to balance between health, among other segments of life, and you know what our Constitution says, what's everything? Thus, even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the state, the right to life, to ban torture, cruel and humiliating treatment and punishment, thoughts, freedom of mind, conscience, and religion cannot be limited. That's all. So, I agree on the importance of what you've said, but I'm not in favour of such rhetoric justifying possible restrictions on everything and everything for health, but I like the saying, now it's not, it's good, but it's not good for political game. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199213	Here, answer, secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199214	Thank you, Honorable Representative Bauk. So I repeat again. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to preserve health, protect health, on the other hand, preserve jobs, stand behind all Croatian entrepreneurs and workers and try and help and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199215	Thank you, too. Now my colleague Schuker is on behalf of the MPs' club final. I'm just asking for my colleagues' intervention. Thank you. How? I don't doubt you, just what I'm stressing. Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199216	Thank you very much. Well, I answered about three things. The first was once in the Croatian Parliament to have mutual respect among MPs and respect for what the MPs wanted to say. Unfortunately, however, those who spoke most today about how there are no MPs in the Assembly, now there are none in the assembly. There are four of us left. The other thing I wanted to say, I'm honest, but really this is what I tell you out of the soul, after all, and my debate was like this, I expected that colleagues from the SDP who have been reported for discussion each by one or two laws will try to explain the legal proposals to us, and with this, a couple of colleagues who have mentioned certain things, we haven't heard anything. We heard attacks on the government. This is what the Government likes, so eventually on the President of the Parliament, on this, on that, etc., I think today was a debate to fight, not to conflict, to oppose opinions and to think about how to solve this crisis. And lastly, yesterday, I just got this information, the EU Commission confirmed HBOR's portfolio loan scheme for liquidity, so much so that I'm going to mention again and apostrophe my colleague Lalovec, the two of us, no matter what we're from different clubs, are saying that at this point we need to secure funds from all possible sources, and this is just another confirmation that the government is working on all fronts. Some things can be spoken publicly, and some things can be spoken of only when they happen. It is a good thing that anyone who has any knowledge of professional everyday life as a proposal in the Croatian Parliament, but look at colleagues and colleagues, maximum respect and according to this institution was that the colleagues from the club who proposed this legislative proposal would be more present in this debate, it would simply point to the seriousness of this proposal, this is not reading any lesson, but when you give the political rival a chance for creamworth then it would be a shame not to take advantage of it. And how seriously you think about these suggestions of yours is best shown by those who spoke of them, I say honor with exceptions, and these exceptions remain now and in the assembly, the best shows how many people are left in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199217	Thank you, too. My colleague Bauk, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is final, and I apologize on behalf of the Proposer, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Proposer 10, 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Shuker, Honored Representative Hajdukovic, Honored representative Leakovic, the esteemed vice president, then what you should welcome yourself to, I thank you. So, first of all, the SDP Club didn't choose the time of the debate, we got it this afternoon, we could discuss it tomorrow morning, it might end something more, it might be a little more media attention, but the debate is in line with 90% of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, these 10% of what the president of the day said to adapt it to the situation. We think it was our responsibility to propose a package of measures to help citizens in the first place because some of these proposals can happen in a very similar way from the government in the next month, it can happen. Well, then we'll have what you just said about creamworth, and we'll be able to say we told you or we suggested. And I don't see that that's some big problem, it's a political competition in these circumstances of the epidemic. So when a normal boxing situation without gloves is put on a little thicker gloves and watch every word, and sometimes some of our colleagues still fail to resist calling to cross that fine line between this constructive community that we witness and regular situations. So I would, however, be encouraged by criticism from fellow Shucker once again, briefly said what our proposals were, so 10 measures to help citizens affected by the pandemic. First fee of at least 4,000 kuna per month in the next 3 months for unemployed people who were fired. Then a fee of half a minimum salary per month or 1,625 kuna for the unemployed on the stock market and do not receive any compensation. Permanent seasons fee at a minimum salary of 3,250 kuna per month, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for social assistance users, a protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for pensioners with small pensions as well as for all persons below the income censorship, a cancellation of the RTV subscription for pensioners with small pensions and social assistance users. Subsidy from 500 to 1,000 kuna per month for renting the apartment for all of the most affected groups. Terminate the execution and increase the amount of wages exempt from the performance, issue of bank cards for blocked citizens for the on-line transaction, abolishing charges on-line transaction as in crisis conditions no physical contact. I don't think I've even listed all these suggestions. I believe that we will also get a written statement from the government before voting on our proposals, so that, since they have been proposed last week, and I can know the work and functioning of the government agree that maybe there was not enough time to get the government's written statement, but until the vote, since we now have a week's break, we can really get the government's written statement on our bill proposals, too, so that the foundation of them and the foundation of the government's work in the future would allow us to see how much these arguments have been justified, and how much they were merely the fruit of us proposing something without the government's proposal. It's the same thing in political life that's possible. I also believe that the assembly will find time to discuss perhaps in a united debate, such as today, proposals from other promoters, not only the SDP Club, but also other proposings, and that we will have to decide whether we are still in this situation in the constructive community as it is said, but it is not a good way not to accept any proposal, or any amendment of the opposition. Then indeed, as counterpart Maras said, we may be serving as a tower, and at the same time the bodies that make decisions are especially spared, excluded from criticism, the Maltas do not welcome any criticism against them on the knife as if they were protected from criticism or as if I were going to say it without a problem, holy cows, so there are no sacred cows in democracy. But what matters is that their decisions should be implemented and respected, but it is allowed and desirable if they are not good critics because they have also created certain problems for citizens who may still be less than the problems that have been spared by the citizens, for example, I think most of all about preventing the spread of the infection. I thank again everyone who participated, thank the state secretaries from all five ministries, especially my colleague Buric and colleagues from the health ministry who was Plazonic, where he was a representative in the previous assembly of the parliament, but I was afraid not to make a mistake, who remained until the end and representatives, especially colleagues Suker who stayed until the end. I hope that, on our return to the Croatian Parliament, we will continue with the normal dynamics of the debate, that the Parliament will remain a place of control of the government and to prevent the arbitrary conduct of a body that is not good when they have no control and that I believe that other colleagues, whether they are from a position or opposition, will contribute. So, I think that in Croatia, we have long fought for democracy so that only so democratic institutions would now deprive their constitutional powers. Some laws could be passed today by agreement and by a two-thirds majority, but the Constitutional Court will then discuss it well, and for everything else we see next week in the new debate, in the new confrontations of opinions, I believe in new constructive decisions that citizens will be able to cope with this crisis as easily as possible. It will be easy if this lasts for two months, but if it lasts longer then the end of the epidemic will sooner be declared by the Minister of Finance than the Minister of Health because suddenly our alternative will die from hunger or from the crown of the virus becoming a general alternative. Therefore, we can endure for some time, but we also need to think about the scenarios of how to live in co-existence with the coronary virus with the least consequences for society, for citizens, for the economy and for the way we're used to living until the middle of the 3rd month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199219	Thank you. That concludes the debate on a set of ten laws, we'll vote on them when the conditions are met. Another information for counterpart Leaković, a colleague of Hajdukovic, a colleague of Shuker and a colleague of Bauk, the work of the Parliament continues on Wednesday 15th April at 9.30 p.m. on Mark's square with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Coastal Research Security, Carbon Exploitation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 821. Thank you very much and the secretary of state for being here. I wish everyone a happy Easter. Goodbye. SESSION DISCONTINUED
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-07-0.u199220	Lastly, the proposal for a conclusion on the increase in the amount of support to preserve jobs in activities affected by coronavirus COVID-19. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal of that conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The conclusion didn't get the required number of votes, it wasn't passed, 76 against, 37 for. This brings us to the end of the vote. I thank you for your discipline and patience. The first time we voted this way, here goes well. Just one, one reminder, so we started consulting on the amendments to that part of the Rules of Procedure that would concern the work in the particular circumstances of the global pandemic that we are currently in, so I ask the clubs to make their proposals by the beginning of next week, some of them have already made, and then during the next week we would have one meeting, first of all the narrow presidency, and then after that we would also consult clubs to bring the Rules of Procedure into the work, so that it no longer rests only on the agreement but to be then arranged for the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. We continue with the free speech and after that with the agenda point that we're going to end today. Thank you. We are now going to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 921 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Now, I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation with us is the esteemed Willy Beros, Minister of Health. Minister, go ahead. Just a little bit, Minister, please.
