ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9628	Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move on to the debate of the points that are planned for today, in accordance with Article. 226 C.E. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 4th session with 10 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure of objection to the proposal for the completion of the agenda is missing, i.e. all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 4th session. Also, let me base my ankle. Article 247(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is replaced by the following: I propose to the Rules of Procedure that we conduct a joint debate on the points planned for today, these are the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and the projection for '22. and '23. Mr and the Final Proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 Are we in agreement? If we did, thank you and we'll have a united discussion. Now we're going to take a stand, but before that, something's coming up, colleague Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9629	Here, for a moment, the Honorable President of the Parliament. We have one, I don't know, undefined application procedure for agenda points. This morning, we had a few of us, 5, 6 waiting 40 minutes to sign up personally, others leaving access to.../incomprehensible/... computer applications. Just so we know which way he's here, we can sign up. If it's a computer delay, the secretary can do it, we have to do it personally because this morning it was obvious that it was a mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9630	We've defined it at the Presidency, I don't know, you'll explain it to me exactly later, so on, it's applying to the chair himself. Those in other rooms are registered in those rooms where they sit. No, so we've procedurally defined everything, maybe some Of nine, of nine, from nine o'clock begins. [[If so, then at today's point...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9631	Then at that point in the agenda of my colleague, the Grmoi should be first, I should be second, not the order that will be, which is written. Because you and I were the only ones who gave up in person.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9697	Now we're going to the 3rd debate, it's SDP's Club of Representatives and a respected colleague, Andreja Maric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9698	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The epidemiological situation in Croatia is still not good, especially in northern Croatia. North's on fire. It is increasingly hospitalized with difficult clinical images of different ages, on the respirator, the health system is overloaded, many health care professionals are suffering from self-insulation. That's the best we know who work in the health system. So 3 days ago, I addressed the Civil Protection Staff of Međimurje County from which I came with the initiative, a letter proposing a combination of several additional measures, not just targeted antigen testing in individual schools mentioned in the last few days in the media. The headquarters rated my initiative as welcome, and I believe it will accept the proposals that I quote and address further to the national headquarters and the resolution ministry. As regards the proposal for measures, I consulted experts from the specialist in infectious and epidemiology, noting the professor of epidemiology Branko Kolarić, a member of the government's scientific council. In mentioning the government's scientific advice, it should be said that more experts have been working voluntarily in the council, scientists who have been warning for some time that the existing measures are not enough, but Prime Minister Plenkovic is not listening to them. The prime minister only hears those advices that suit him politically at a given time. The fact is, the number of patients doesn't fall. Yesterday 3,251 newly infected, 38 dead, 205 on the respirator, in Međimurje record 273 infected. From the number tested in Croatia, 30 to 50% of positive ones are therefore undertested. 50% of all dead of the crown so far have died in the last two weeks. Is it time for the alarm? Yeah. Let's go back to the letter of initiative to our headquarters. We have proposed the following measures. First, testing on SARS COV II PCR testing of all employees of the County Hospital Čakovec, Home Health Čakovec, Institute of Emergency Medicine, Institute of Public Health and employees and wards of homes for older and powerless including private ones. Then mass testing with the rapid antigen test of asymptomatic people targeted employees of companies, companies, cafes, restaurants, schools, kindergarten employees, etc., so everywhere where more people work. Then mass testing with a rapid antigen test of all asymptomatic residents over the age of 10, a close test in Slovakia. Public calls for all symptomatic residents to report urgently to the competent doctors to conduct a direct PCR testing. Training in higher classes of primary school and secondary schools and colleges on line for 4 weeks, limiting extracurricular activities through 4 weeks and working from home wherever possible. Testing should be free of charge for all these groups, it should be started as soon as possible in a short period of time through 2-3 depending on how it can be organised, and the organisation of human and in-house resources and funding should be developed with the National Staff of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Health so that the burden is not on our county or on our healthcare professionals alone. The financial part should be provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that everyone's goal is to rapidly reduce the number of people who are infected or who are sick, people's health is a supersede issue we keep saying that. Since the number of inhabitants and population density in Međimurje makes it easier to spend everything with us than in some major environment of this initiative we would be a kind of pilot project based on which results would be valuable information for all of Croatia. So, first of all, Međimurje and Varazdin County as the most affected county, so Zagreb and all of Croatia. Lockdown will agree not a solution, but the existing measures are not enough. The government is late with additional measures and directly endangers the health of all of us as well as the sustainability of the health system. Unfortunately, we haven't reached the peak of the epidemic yet. The economic and epidemiological bill is on the side of the urgent introduction of additional measures with clear communication with citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9780	Now we're going to listen to a respected colleague, Sandra Bencic, speaking on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives. Thank you. Someone's mask is left... Yeah, can you take her? [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then please mask only. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9781	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I will talk about, as a prelude to the debate that we will certainly have all day on the budget today, I will talk about the national development strategy and the final proposal for the document that we have received, which we have now had the opportunity to read and analyze. First of all, I'm going to remind everyone that this document was made 3 years ago. And that we paid 32, 32 million for it, and 32.5 million kuna to the World Bank to get analytical bases for the preparation of the strategy. What we finally got was that we got a document so general that it could be applied to any country in the world, to replace the word “Croatia” with, for example, I don’t know “New Zealand” and the thing would actually be equally applicable or equally not applicable. What exactly is this about? It is that the document fully shows that there is no moment of consultation or public participation in its definition. A vision of Croatia, which is said to be in 2030. Croatia's competitive innovative safe country of recognizable identity and culture, land of preserved resources, quality living conditions and equal opportunities for all, does not give a single specificity of Croatia. It is bureaucratic, it is written in bureaucratic language, and it shows that citizens were not in any way involved in creating a vision or in creating what we all see together as a society in Croatia 2030. So, minimum, minimum minimum is to involve at least citizens in defining vision if we haven't already included them in defining strategic priorities. It's actually amazing to me that all the big parties are doing polls every 2-3 weeks to measure their popularity among citizens and to be in 3. he could not make a process, even if the minimum polling which is bad and not good, but at least minimally so that citizens would participate in creating elements of the vision as they see Croatia and how they see society. This vision does not give rise to anything concrete, which will be the position of these citizens in 2020. No, there are five basswords of European bureaucratic that are used and then repeated throughout the text, and they're actually not saying anything about what kind of society we're going to be in 2030. But that's not the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that we do not have any concrete political decision in this text to say that these objectives will be achieved through the definition of strategic goals which can be both of these and those of us. What are the concrete reforms that we are going to implement and how will we implement them in order to achieve that goal? That part is completely lagging behind. I'm not saying that the National Development Strategy must have developed measures, activities etc., it's being developed by sectoral strategies, that's okay, but what it has to have, it, to choose a strategy means to choose the direction of action to reach a goal. In this case, there is no political decision behind any of this. However, what it has is to see the value system of the party that wrote this document. This value system says we use only what others in the EU are doing, we dare not innovate ourselves, we dare not move forward, we dare not do something of our own, new and specific. Another thing, we see people as a resource for the labour market. So, the chapter on education is called the educated and employed people, the strategic objective 2. Education is fully placed in the context of preparation for the labour market. In itself, education is not a value to this government. What am I saying? In the very goal of education, we missed the key thing to define. For example, we say that we want to increase the coverage of kindergarten children, which is good, we want to increase the number of children who go to kindergarten for 4 years because this increases the success of the PISA test or later, but we didn't say how we're going to do it, nor did we say what we're going to do then with with programs to encourage mothers to stay home with their children for up to six years. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9840	Now we will listen to the sixth debate, it is the Party's Club of Representatives with Name and Surname, Smart and GLAS will be addressed to us by a respected colleague, Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9841	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We are living in a strange time where the length of our discussions is related to covid-19, it is also tied to all the daily events, but I would use this debate and talk about something in which this country has spent a great deal of effort and money over the last few years. Citizens were disciplined and willingly involved in this, offices did excellent work, units of local and self-government did a huge job. I'm talking, of course, about the legalization of illegally built buildings, but what I want to highlight from this pay phone. Legalization wasn't the point, and it wasn't the project that meant it to itself. The idea of legalization was that once and for all, order was arranged in space, to determine the point where we legalize everything that was possible, and that after that point, there was no longer any possibility that we could continue to devastation space through illegal construction. In order to be able to do so, we must have a building inspection that works, which does its job and which is able to stop illegal construction at the very beginning and immediately remove what is not in accordance with regulations and permits. Unfortunately, things on the ground seem very different from what they're supposed to be. The information we receive speaks of the fact that since 2018 there has been absolutely no control over construction or the removal of illegal construction from space. From Dubrovnik, through Rovinj to Eastern Slavonia, reports come of numerous attempts by citizens to report lawless builders, but they generally face the problem that inspectors either do not have at all or do not have enough or do what they should do. The state inspectorate and construction inspection, or construction control, as the section is officially called in the state budget, should be the first line of defence in Croatia from destruction through illegal construction. They must be on the ground, they must actively and proactively monitor how who and what he builds and everything without right, immediately remove, while at the initial stages of construction, because then it is the simplest, because then they are the least harm. Instead, we have a situation where people are mass complaining that they can't get an inspection to get into the field at all. Unfortunately, there is only one view of the budget that we are going to discuss today, of course, I am talking about next year's budget and it can be clear to everyone why it is. The State Inspectorate, or part of the budget, about 3 pages and has 320 735 980 kuna available. It is clear that with such a budget and the possibilities it provides, we cannot even count with serious construction supervision that will ensure that we do not again experience the flood of illegal construction and riots in space. The space is inalienable. Once a devastated space is a devastated space forever. If this country has decided and if everyone has actively participated in this, from citizens who have done their part of the job neatly, from offices that have issued actual permits and done one serious job, a unit of regional.../incomprehensible/... regional self-government that has done a great job, why we gave it up. Why did we give up on the inspection doing its job? Why did we even decide to put a construction inspection in the State Inspectorate? I fought hard for this pay phone one other year and before, when it went, I fought and explained why it shouldn't be done. So I've often heard from lawless builders, so you've helped us. You thought state. Why is this country still doing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9868	But, just, just a little bit. When was the report before? ... I will clarify it, I will see it, I can't now because I am not informed about what happened, here's my colleague Zekanovic, you are the first on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9869	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we marked the fall of the city of Vukovar, a massacre in Skabrnja. I can from this pay phone, from this highest home of the Croatian people, realize that we are a really crazy people. I wonder if anyone in high Croatian politics is normal. In 2020, we are changing politics, Croatian politics, although we have started doing this for a few years, and suddenly it is more important whether Milorad Pupovac will come to Škabrnje and is exclusively spoken about in Croatian media, and almost no mention of the massacre of almost 100 people of Skabrnja and then it started to talk about the famous reconciliation. It's a make-up. What you call reconciliation is a civilization collapse. That's immoral. So there can be no reconciliation without clear guilt. Can it be everyone's fault? Oh, I can't. Dear members of the Serb national minority, it is your fault, the Croats are not to blame. Those who slaughtered at the Sheepchare are not guilty. And if they were watching what Plenkovic's media and Pupovci media are doing today, they'd be equating the blame, so they'd be smart. So he's equally guilty and he's laid a crown and Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic who can come to HS today, he's also talking about a brush who slaughtered, who may later have died somewhere on the front and expressed his deepest regret, empathy towards Croatian victims. Well, we're a really crazy people. But we're being systematically poisoned. And we Croats are already used to putting our shoulders down many times and looking at the floor. And we don't care. And we say, come on, we'll share that guilt even though we're not to blame, just to move on to a new topic. And that kind of shoulder drop leads us where? Oh, to the new Bleiburg, to the new Sheepdog, perhaps not really, but in the conveyed meaning, yes. The people who gave up the truth, the people who gave up their most important values, and that's the sacrifice of people for their country, don't we deserve a country? We don't deserve the state. From this place I call on all those who have any salt in their head, who have any sense of the Croatian state, to raise their voice in whatever way they know not to allow the relativisation that the media, all the media, the mainstream media are trying to make. We're not all equally guilty. Finally, if we look at the UN tribunal's verdict, he ruled that the judicial leadership committed politically motivated war crimes in Vukovar and Croatia, while for Croatia there is no such verdict. For those of you who are in a little doubt, are we guilty, it's not our fault. It's their fault. And Andrew, Andrew, the vocalist, I assume, Milorad, Boris, is enough with this more. Don't mention reconciliation, please don't mention reconciliation this way. That's degutant. That's what all those who died in the Homeland War and who felt hell of war couldn't listen. And maybe for the end, I'll ask you what it would be like if they were. Allies without a clear confession of guilt and the trial of war criminals after World War II said let's calm down? There was no rest of my men. The Allies have trampled on whoever was guilty of World War II. And what are we doing? They're steppin' on us. We now have to fear that they'll overvote us, that there'll be more on the list, so they'll bring us a Cyrillic letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9942	There is another discussion of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u9943	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I want to remind the Croatian public once again of an extremely scary and inhumane event from the City of Osijek, more specifically from the Osijek Zoo. It's important that I talk about it right here in HS so that something like this never happens again. Osijek's zoo is an integral part of the Osijek municipal company "Unicom" in which the main word is led by the head of the Osijek City Authority, more specifically the Osijek SDP, which has appointed its party vice president as the director of "Unicoma". And what exactly happened? I would like to remind you that recently the Croatian and Osijek Zoo has been appalled by the recent events in which a lioness suffered for weeks and in agony due to her difficult health condition has bit off part of her back leg. In doing so, it is amazing that the management of the zoo as well as the management of the "Unicos" did not react until the portals that we can see from certain articles of the national portal began to write about it, unfortunately what happened, and the zoo administration had warned for weeks about the situation in which the lioness was located, but nothing on this matter had taken place. Only then after the portals wrote about it was aid to the lioness, but unfortunately it was too late and the lioness was finally euthanized. This indeed, you agree, seems scary, but apparently that is not what people who run the Osijek Zoo and who run the Communist Company “Unico”. In this matter, as I said, they did not manifest themselves to the Osijek public, nor did they inform the People that the situation was in the zoo, which is why something like this happened and who would be responsible for it. That the situation in the zoo is extremely bad after these pictures and after such an event, I don't think I have to mention it specifically. Otherwise, the city company "Unicoma" operates almost as a private branch of Osijek's SDP, political care, or in order to say political infatuation has become so obvious that the employees of "Unika" themselves who have been doing their job fairly for years are mostly talking about it. The director of "Unicoma" is the vice president, as I said to the Osijek SDP in the past year, the president of the Belgrade SDP and former mayor were appointed to his assistant. They also took care of the president of the SDP Council of Councilors' Club in the Osijek City Council, but as it is said in the ad, that's not all. As a result of the crisis, the crisis has increased the incomes and coefficients of individual "Unicos" workers. They have amended the Internal Organisation and Work Systematization Regulation, of course you cannot see the contents of this document on the official website of "Unikama", and I wonder why? Because this is precisely the regulation that determines the coefficients that I mentioned earlier, i.e. the salaries of employees who are increased by certain employees. It is also amazing that there is no information on ongoing employment tenders on the official website of “UNICOMA”. Namely, this public undertaking has a legal obligation to publicly publish information on tendering for employment and outcomes of tendering procedures. Citizens have the right to know who is employed in public enterprises and who is paid by all citizens. It is also an obligation for "UNICOM" to publish publicly information on the internal structure of the leaders of the "UNICOM" and the structural units. But there is no such thing on the website of “Unicos ” just so that what is happening there will not be seen. And as the Osijek municipal company "Unicom" actually works, the people feel good about what Osijek looks like, for example, these are pictures of Osijek Kopacabana, these are pictures of Central Osijek Square where they don't work fountains because they say the crown crisis, while at the same time increasing coefficients and hiring people. There is no regular bone public surface, our parks are untenable to any of our city fountains like I said didn't work this year. In doing so, the cost of transporting mixed municipal waste went up by an average of 50% per household. All this has not been made public and reported to the public about the work of the same company. Non-transparent business, political staffing, social insensitivity, which is the worst functioning in the provision of service services this utility company is the conclusion after all you could hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u10011	We're going to a second debate, dear colleague Davor Dretar on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u10012	Good afternoon, all of you, dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. I'll talk a little bit about the situation in northern Croatia, mainly in Varazdin County. Namely, every city in this unfortunate country has its own small affair similar to the wind power plants Krš-Pađen, so in Varazdin, through the city council, a decision is being prepared to sell shares in the public company Termoplin and is mentioned about 3 hundreds of millions of kuna. There is always the same similarity, the sale is being prepared, we can say freely, only a few months before the local elections, so at the very end of the term of this headship, as we have already known the price of kilowatt hours from the wind power plant Krš-Pađene saw that it agreed at the very end of the calendar year. Now our merry-go-rounds in Varazdin have come up with something called an integral solution. It was brought by the Varazdin Headship, and it all resembles some kind of non-judicial settlement attempt in disputes and lawsuits based on now already legendary garbage bales located at the entrance to the town of Varazdin, and are currently in a valid court procedure. Such procedures for such fantastic garbage bales cannot be legally resolved outside the court itself, and mainly by not in charge of the city of Varazdin's budget, which is proposed by this integrated solution. I believe that Mr. Habian, as a lawyer, knows that damages charges have their own institute of settlements within the court proceedings before the court is accepted, and this institute is obviously spent or not consummated, so such a procedure for compensation has its only epilogue in the power of judgment in the court. For this reason, this headship has integrated the solution and referred to the legality test and we hope that the competent court will stop this same integrated solution, and that no further resolution will occur as a result of local criminal activities of taxpayers' money. Speaking of municipal waste in Varazdin, let us mention the basic principle of the price of waste disposal, you know, by a regulation by which citizens separate municipal waste, the same is recycled, so there is a lower cost of transport. However, Varvaždin waste is transported and taken care of in Davor at the price of unrecyclable waste. The garbage is therefore driven as mixed waste without recycling, while at the entrance to Varazdin for years we have been looking at a unique artistic installation made of thousands and thousands of fresh waste bales, which have already been growing a bit of the weak trees of Javor and Beige, the bushes of sage and various Polish flowers as a perfect reminder of negligent, negligent and crime in northern Croatia. And something seems much more important and more current. During yesterday's 24 hours in Varazdin County, 207 new cases of coronary infection were reported. I'm not going to bother you with numbers, I'm just going to tell you that the seven-day number of newly discovered cases has been over 1500 since yesterday, and as of yesterday, according to the World Health Organization, the Varazdin County is a European region with the highest number of newly infected within 7 days to 100,000 inhabitants. Let us remember on September 2nd this year when the Varazdin mayor of Mr. Cacic at the county assembly session said that the hospital has 30 respirators and that they are fully ready for the second wave of Covid-19, but what we see at this time is the complete collapse of the health system in the north. And once again, the Varazdin County by the number of infected at this point is the worst in the EU. In the course of the pandemic, more than half of the respirators are missing, so let's ask ourselves, with full right, where did they go? Therefore, on behalf of all residents of the Varazdin County and on behalf of the Homeland Movement, I call on Mayor Caicic and Minister Beros to take urgent measures to improve this situation as quickly as possible, and on behalf of citizens to contribute to responsible behaviour to the normalisation of the situation in Varazdin County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u10064	The fourth debate will be the discussion of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a respected colleague, Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u10065	After us is an important day, the day on which we remember the victim of Vukovar and Skabrnja, the day that first time this year was given the place that in the folk, collective memory long ago belonged to him, the place of the special day, now the formal holiday, the unworkable day. The goal of this nezade is to move away from the usual activities of reminding that there is more to life than just economic existence, some common in this case historical moments that deserve to be marked in a dignified way. This statement of respect for the victims of Vukovar and Skabrnje should also be a show of awe for war, but also a reminder of rare cracks in a time when people were not only victims but also heroes. All this is not just a grim, completed historical lesson, but a live speech of pledge to the future. An inspiration for a more noble action and a reminder of humility in our present day-to-day life. But this year's first holiday marking of the Vukovar victim was all but that. In the public space it is mostly reduced to on-call hygienics, step counters and stolen free breaths, whether they want to politically profit in an uninvited epidemiological situation, were entrepreneurship scientists who come again, leave Croatia and who see this as an opportunity to unjustly impose their authority beyond the scope of their profession. The highest state officials in this regard reacted by a trendal competition in alternative ways of marking this day, forgetting that they are those for whom the protocol exists and that they exist as an entity of the state, unlike the citizens, exist to monitor it, so it is difficult and to list who is everything and exactly where and at which exact time marked the Day of Remembrance of Vukovar's victim. Since this is increasingly the case with all the state holidays because it is clearly no longer modern, it is not modern to be in the right place at the right time, we can only cynically hope that the number of holiday days will expand to meet the need for self-representation of each state official’s pythetics individually. Returning to the past is also a step into the future. The answer to the trauma of war is not her memory. Let us abandon the past and turn to the future often say shallow demagogues unaware that many nations achieved as Jews a strong social relationship with their past, a vow of memory, never prevents them from making economic progress as much as possible to argue that he may have encouraged them. The issue that remains on the trail remains a stumbling block in Croatia is merely a matter of balance, which means being aware of your own or collective past and being trapped in it. In this context, I would like to warn you of a few things, first of all, why is the issue of the missing essential? The burial of the dead is the foundation of civilization, most religions of ritual cults remind us that if we don't bury the worthy dead, there will be a terrible punishment. Similarly, since Antigona, classical archetype literature has warned that the struggle for a decent burial of nearby existential needs and the basic task of surviving family members. These deep religious civilization, mythic, philosophical, literary signposts are not random, they are an additional incentive for us not to resort to solving the fate of the missing and there is no compromise. The people who are reduced to not remembering, that tabula race is the easiest thing to manipulate. Speaking of memory is one of the greatest lessons and most valuable ingredients of heritage left to us by Vukovar from '91. A bright example of the Vukovar War Hospital. Circumstances in which the Vukovar hospital staff acted by risking their lives to save their loved ones show in full all humanity of the medical call. So it is especially worth reminding today at the time of the pandemic what the werewolf doctors taught us. The novel "Cug" ends with the thought that in times of evil, we can learn that there are more things in people that deserve admiration than contempt, and that is exactly what were taught us by werewolves and doctors, but also by some lonely individual in an aggressor army like Ljuboja who managed to preserve his humanity during the war. The hole in the chest was the reason Serbian soldier Marko Ljuboja saved Croatian William Karlovic. I am a Serb who believes in God told Ljuboja Karlovic. Although there are no rules in war, Loboa knew that the divine order, and also the universal ethical principle “Do not kill” is an eternal law for those who wish to go to God’s court with a clean face or to sleep with a peaceful conscience. Without truth there is no sound memory, without a decent burial of all the dead there is no true tranquillity, reconciliation is built on truth, confession, remorse. A game in which the ruling coalition's mates only make God's historical gestures of reconciliation as if they'd just come out of opposing trenches, not from the same table in the government with which our fates are being joined, and we can see from the same famous clubs would be ridiculous if you didn't caricate and pollute one serious and necessary process... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u10066	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Selak Raspadić, to hold order like everyone else. Thank you, thank you very much. We are going to the ninth debate, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u10105	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues for, I must claim from this place that during the Homeland War we were very, very solid, anxious daily over the news that came from the battlefield, from all the battlefields, worked, who were in a working relationship for 100 deutsche marks of average wages, knit socks, gathered food, lived with those of us, our defenders wherever we were. I ask you if today we have a solidarity society and with those who do not have their own will today have small pensions because 100 DM salaries were low contributions and they have introduced large, large anomalies into pension rights or made small pensions all those years. No, we're not solidarity company today. We're an arrogant, elitist society. I appreciate it, and I speak with open hearts, respecting the working class that brought me out and from which I came here and for which I will always cheer because of what is in work and creation is the salvation of this country. Gentlemen, these days I'm covered with questions about what's going on with the Retired Christmas. We're reading this city giving Christmas Eve, and that city is mostly about richer cities and municipalities. 2005. HSU then proposed a Christmas code proposal for all pensioners in the coalition with HDZ, and according to the model, the poorest get it at most once a year on the occasion of the holiday. The bill has been rejected, as will be rejected today in the Government, by the draft law of Representative Silvan Hrelje on voluntary health insurance, which requires an increase in censorship to 2,000 per member of the family, or 2,500 if the person lives alone. However, the Christmas payment form that was in this law today has the right of citizenship because it was also supported by cities and municipalities and today is in place in cities and municipalities that can, which can, or whose budgets can, bear it. The intensity of the law was that everyone, all the pensioners, got Christmas cards and got them in 2006, 2008 and 2015, but not out of the budget. They got it because the HSU's representatives found where there was money, twice from the fund's capital, and once from the rest of those pension funds, the compensation fund because, according to those who didn't report for damages and for a substantial asset, those who died without an heir had almost 200 million kuna or 2% of total compensation. Of course, I think that, thanks to my low-income pensions with all the monsters that have brought us wartime and wartime, all of us, but I'm also using the opportunity of our pensioners who like to receive 100 kuna from the municipal, city budget, to forward the following message. Dearly beloved pensioners and pensioners remember the safety of your rights rests in the quality laws that are passed in this house, that is, these are the only permanent rights for all, everything else is today, and tomorrow is not. Until you realize it, you can only expect one-time help or motivation for some new elections or for units of local self-government or for generals and that from those who can give it and you remain to be really admired that in the neighboring courtyard, in the neighbouring municipality of grass is greener and that you are followed by saliva. That's not good. That thinking's not good. Put your heads together and your voices and know what you're voting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u10138	Let's go to the fifth presentation. It's a respected colleague, Ermina Lekaj Prleskaj, on behalf of the HNS Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u10139	The Honorable president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. We know that in recent months we have all witnessed increasingly brutal forms of violence of exclusiveness and unculture of dialogue in public space. The hate speech becomes our daily life. We are witnessing a lack of tolerance, respect for different and different from us. It's time for us as a society to recognize it, condemn and prevent it. It may be time to remind ourselves of tolerance or to mark the 16th International Day of Tolerance, which has been marked in the world since 1996. The UN General Assembly called on all its members to mark the day of respect and respect for different ones, and in line with the 1995 Declaration on the principles of tolerance for UNESCO, which defines tolerance not only as a moral duty but also as a legal and political obligation both for the individual and for the state and society. Tolerance is harmony in diversity, it implies respect, acceptance and respect for diversity independently of political belief, national, religious, age, racial and sexual differences. And what do we do as a society? By relationing political and moral responsibility to late reactions, by encouraging division policies, we allow tolerance as a responsibility bearing human rights, pluralism and democracy to drown in hatred and intolerance. History has shown that this is not the path that brings better tomorrow for any of us, whether we are a silent majority or a brave minority. Tolerance is not the only one but is one of the fundamental preconditions for combating discrimination and the achievement of human rights and equal opportunities. Tolerant or intolerant behavior is not innate, it is learned from our family, schools, institutions and societies. Tolerance is a process we build daily and at all levels. As a society, we need to do more, so let's start by ourselves, from us here in this High House where we are often witnessing rough and inappropriate verbal advances. In addition to declaratively showing the example that we clearly and unequivocally condemn every form of hatred, intolerance and intolerance. Let us not view diversity as something that divides us but as something that unites us and encourages us to be together, to build a society where different freedoms, beliefs and opinions are respected, because it is the only way we can achieve the peaceful co-existence of all individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u10147	We are going to the 7th debate, the club of representatives of HSLS and reformers, respected colleague Natalija Martincevic. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u10148	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, unfortunately, we witness the continued delivery of semi-truths, and unfortunately, often completely incorrect information related to the biggest crisis in which Croatia was found after the war. A crisis caused by the Covid-19 virus. The government of the Republic of Croatia and the national headquarters that put seriously and responsibly in the first wave, now in this wave show complete dissembling, ignoring numbers and facts, more comprehensive pulsism and raising some groups, and acting in a diametric way contrary to the conduct of 90% of the EU countries. This intense passion to explain that we do not need stricter measures and that they do not receive results, include state actors, as well as some national media is astounding. I'm not going to tell politicians because, of course, they like to talk about what citizens want to hear, no matter what it is, but when such statements come from people who should represent the profession, and they put themselves in the service of daily politics, then it becomes dangerous. But, interestingly, these are only the interpretations of those professions that are closely related to the government. On the other hand, all the other professions, epidemiologists, hospital directors, doctors, medical staff, they all say something else entirely. The condition is difficult, the hospitals are full, the respirators are full, we're at the end of the power, you convince the measures, you do something. The Varazdin County in 7.10. was one of only 10 regions in Europe with the lowest number of infected. We were a green zone. At 17.11. we, with a weekly incidence of 892, became Europe's first region by the number of people infected by 100,000. So in just 40 days, we came from the best to the worst region in Europe. Right next to us, there's Mejimuri. It shows how the virus spreads when measures are not taken. Just to point out once again, the county and county headquarters have no authority to introduce measures. I can suggest them, so the situation in Varazdin County is next. The number of people infected is growing rapidly, the beds are filling up, the General Hospital of Varazdin is already half the hospital's covid hospital, when we talk there were words about the number of respirators, and some colleagues don't know that there is a Klenovnik hospital in Varazdin County for pulmonary patients who also need respirators, we can't unbutton them to pin covid patients and therefore we're talking about that number. The county is seeking and proposing stricter measures. What's the national headquarters doing? It's destroying our measures, relieving our measures, and so on and so forth. We call citizens to account, we look for stricter measures, we fight for beds, we fight for respirators, we set up tents because we're going to fill the hospital with this dynamic in the next seven days. And as we try to explain to our citizens the seriousness of the situation, the national headquarters keeps making statements, the numbers fall, the vaccine comes, they don't need stricter measures, everything's fine. Such statements support the creation of an atmosphere that we are panicking. The private interests of some activities take place, take over the media initiative and further encourage citizens not to respect measures, and especially the contributions made by statements of stricter measures do not produce results and figures fall. The numbers don't drop, the numbers are growing, they're growing all over the country, and it's possible that in this situation where Varazdin County and Međimurska are soon going to find other counties. How do we expect citizens to be responsible and cautious when they are persistently convinced from the state level that stricter measures do not produce results, and that is one big lie. All countries that have imposed stricter measures have a decline in the sick, these are official, publicly-published analyses of EU Member States. The measures don't give results in two days, but they do in two weeks. So if 90% of the EU countries have stricter measures, are they really all wrong, or should we, after all, question what we are doing and why? There are also certain groups of populism and public mutilation, and I think that people's health and lives are the limits. And let's get one more thing straight. We are not for lockdown, we are against the closure of the economy and therefore we want to limit the work of a small number of activities that are hotspots with of course adequate compensatory measures with the aim of not closing down industry, economy, plants, for people to continue to work and receive salaries. More than 500 people have died in Croatia in the last 2 weeks, representing about 50% of the total number of deaths since the start of the pandemic. At the same time, Croatia has not taken any serious action. Individuals who are fighting for their material or small local political interests may be able to afford immoral and irresponsible behaviour, but counties that manage health systems and governments that only decide on measures certainly do not. And here those who call for help in front of other counties would do well to hear their mayors, not just the mayor of the Varazdin County, talk about problems and make a clear request for reactions from the national headquarters, not to remain silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14231	This brings us to the end of the debate by clubs and independent representatives, and we will now move on to the agenda. We have information that the Prime Minister, that both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have just arrived at the Parliament building, can only be seen to move on. Please invite them to come. Dear MPs and MPs, as I have also announced, we will move on to a united debate on: - Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2021 and projection for the year 2022 and 2023 and - Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2021 and projection for the year 2022 and 2023, second reading, P.Z. No. 51 With the proposal of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projection for 2022 and 2023, the proposal for financial plans of extra-financial users for 2021 and projection for 2022 and 2023 is also submitted with the explanation for: - Croatian Waters, - Croatian Roads, - Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, - State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, - HZZO - Center for Restructure and Sales, - Croatian Highway, - Autoroad Rijeka-Zagreb, - HZ Travel Transport and - HZ Infrastructure. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 85 37. Budget law and Art. 211. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In the case of the adoption of the State budget, the provisions of the Article shall apply. 211 and 212. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of Croatia for 2021, we will conduct a discussion in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. On this draft law, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, and the other amendments could be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Lawmaking, Finance and the State Budget, for Defence, for Family, Youth and Sports, for Regional Development and EU Funds, for Environmental and Nature Protection, for Agriculture, for Justice, for Physical Planning and Construction, for the Economy, for Internal Policy and National Security, for Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership, for Education, Science and Culture, for Health and Social Policy, for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and for Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. I remind you of the article. 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed State budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted deficit of the State budget and projection. During the debate on the proposal of the State Budget and projections, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the State Budget and projections may be adopted provided that a reduction of other expenditures and expenditures in a specific part of the budget is proposed at the same time. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. Art. 212. The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments submitted and the budget as a whole before they expire 3 days from the date of the debate. I welcome with us the President of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Zdravko Marić and all other members of the Government, and I would like to ask that he further explain the proposal of the State Budget, the Prime Minister will speak first. The Prime Minister, and then after that, and the vice president, however, I see that we have a colleague named Bulja who is reporting, I assume it's a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14232	Thank you very much. I'm looking on behalf of the Bridge Club for 10 minutes. Today when we talk about the most important document I'm asking you to return the time. [[Intruder: Please, just put a mask on your face.]] Could be the time. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected prime minister, the budget we are making and the promises you make in the Croatian government are not being met, which is an example of the Split-Dalmatia County, all the projects you have brought to the government in Split have so far been carried out by the 2 billion you have promised, then Dalmatia. [[You've been talking, let's move on.]] 0, nothing. Absolutely nothing, except that you're only puzzling your coalition partners, Keruma, your local leaders down there, county, giving them concessions and Covid support to them and their families. It is similar throughout Croatia. The question is, how far are we going? Until the pensioners were allowed to change the signal in the budget. TV receivers, while we don't have the key projects you promise from year to year, you only support the coalition potential through your local leaders, and only that. You are exclusively working on how to support Kerum, their family members so that you can maintain the coalition, and so is the same in Zagreb. Prime Minister, stealing or holding a bag, that's the same thing. Well, it can't just exist on concessions and false promises. Split-Dalmatia County of 2 billion promised projects, 0, zero, nothing, prime minister. For what? Is there any reason to treat Dalmatia this way? Except for the pre-election promises, when you come down. Not a single significant project, not for the Cetin region, not for the Imot region, not for Knin, not for Drniš, not a single significant project except for the promise. and the work of your coalition partners [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] both in Split and Zagreb. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14233	Thank you very much, colleague Bulj. The break will be approved. Is there any other club coming up for a break? No, I don't. We're continuing in... Karolina Vidović Kristo, representative of the Homeland Movement, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club for a few reasons. The first is intolerable and it is unacceptable that in such a short time period of time we get such an important document as the State budget, I do not think it is enough to prepare quality for the debate and for the amendments. Another reason is the disrespect of the Croatian government, i.e. the government does not respect the Croatian Parliament, which is most apparent in non-response of our parliamentary issues. In fact, about 120 days ago, I asked Mr. Marić's representative question asking for a specification of what 100,000 kunas are spent on a morbid celebration in Serbia this year. I haven't received an answer in 120 days, as I haven't received a response to possible tax evasion by the favorite tycoon Emil Tedeschi, who systematically terrorises the people of Hvar. So, respecting HS by the government is an imperative of the democratic system, and this is not happening here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14235	My colleague Vidović Kristo, therefore due to the Croatian public, was sent the text of the proposal of the State Budget to the 30th Assembly. So, 19 days before the debate. I don't remember that it's ever so early, with such a gap being written, and if you haven't been able to prepare for the debate for 19 days, then you probably have some problems, but don't deceive the public and get the impression that we've been doing something lately because we haven't. Your apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up? If no one answers, it's 10 o'clock and 45 minutes. What? Oh, well, I'm asking. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome colleagues Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14236	Well, here's the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238. This is a humiliation, therefore, I did not say that I failed to prepare myself or to deceive the Croatian public, 30 October to this day you say that it is enough, I say that it is not enough because it is not a practice of European states, if you think it is good that your opinion has the right to it, but to call on me in turn and to say that I have not been able to prepare it is demeaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14237	It is also not accurate information that there was not enough time because in the history of the Croatian Parliament there was never 19 days from the day of delivery of the text until the debate, so you can talk, but the intention is quite clear. Here's your colleague, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14238	I would like to thank the Honorable Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, before the start of the debate on the state budget on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club for further consultations, but I would also like to ask the President of the Republic of Croatia which I hope will give an answer in his opening statement, which refers to the sustainability of the budget for 2021. We are all aware that the 2021 budget, especially at the time of the Covvid crisis, is extremely reliant on the revenues that the Republic of Croatia should make from the EU budget and funds. However, as we have been able to see the situation over the past few days regarding the adoption of the EU budget for the period 2021 to 2027 is extremely turbulent. The two countries of Poland and Hungary announced the possibility of vetoing and blocking the budget for that period. What I would ask you to do is to inform us, in the opening statement, the Croatian public about the veto movements that these two countries are announcing, and in particular to let us know if Croatia has a plan B in case Poland and Hungary insist on vetoing, which is why we will be greatly prevented from accessing EU funds, and I am afraid that this could have unspeakable consequences for Croatia especially during the Covid crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14239	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14240	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am also looking for a 10-minute break in order to stress once again here in the assembly, as well as the Croatian public, which is why we will support this 2020 budget. First of all, we will support him because he is the cornerstone of the government's next year, which will go towards further strengthening of the Croatian economy in particular under these specific conditions caused by the Covid crisis. It is based on the macroeconomic forecasts of the Croatian government, on work, on the growth of the Croatian economy in the next year of 5%. And what, apart from this 5% GDP growth figure, will be much more interested in our citizens, is the fact that this budget includes further tax redundancies of Croatian citizens, that this budget also allows for an increase in the salaries of all Croatian employees on the one hand. On the other hand, what is very important is that in times when the business of Croatian businessmen is difficult continues with further tax discharge, above all and with the basis of a reduction in profit tax. Furthermore, what is very important is that this budget sends a clear message to Croatian businessmen who, in a difficult, difficult situation, are exactly conditioned by the crisis in a way that will continue to subsidise those activities that are most hit and clearly want to maintain a very high level of investment in the real sector, where only this year for this real sector to save jobs, to maintain business activities of Croatian entrepreneurs and to preserve the liquidity of the Croatian economy invested more than 8 billion kuna for more than 107,000 Croatian, Croatian entrepreneurs and these funds have been sent to more than 600,000 workers in Croatia. So, we want to further show how important this budget is to support, and what does the public administration think about it? The best show was Modis's agency, which is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which has raised Croatia's credit rating. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14241	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to my colleague Mrak Taritash, I would like to ask you to take a look at my fellow journalists, cameraman, you do not follow absolutely any of the rules about distances and I would ask the service to make a certain distance between colleagues here because we in the assembly have made decisions to adhere to measures, and we have spaces, so I ask you to stick to that, as well as to serve to take care of it. Here you go, comrades. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14242	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, please pause for 10 minutes on behalf of the Party Club with a name and last name, Smart and Glass. What's the reason for this break? So, this budget, every one of us, regardless of which political niche looks at it, looks at it in a certain way, but I would like to point out, and I expect the prime minister to make two points in a speech that will explain the budget. One view of this budget should be in the context of the 2030 strategy of the development of the Republic of Croatia, because this budget should see additional investment related to education, related to science, related to certain requalifications of our citizens to be ready for some new jobs, from a budget that was made very conservatively in the usual way, but I also expect the prime minister and later debate with Deputy Prime Minister Maric to get answers to that. And, of course, another answer is that we are really in the budget with EU funds, in the public opinion that at one point, Prime Minister Plenkovic came from Brussels with a full bag of money and that is not a problem. Now we see that that's the problem, that the problem is that there are two states, two governments, who really put their foot in the door with the idea of vetoing. And the question is, in that context, how are we going to behave and what are we going to do? So this is a time when we need to recognize the crisis, we need to recognize the problem that the whole world is facing, and this budget should also provide answers to these problems. Unfortunately he does not give it, but we will show it through the vote on the budget, but through part of the debate when the prime minister would like to see the answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14243	The apartment will be approved. A colleague of Tomašević is now on the way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14244	I'm looking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club on the subject of the budget. I don't know what was the practice so far in HS, which is what's appropriate, but we've now entered HS and can say what's out of our perspective inappropriately. The real thing is, if you think 19 days is enough for such a comprehensive document, we don't think so. On the other hand, what is unacceptable to us is that we are practically at the same time making budget rebalances for this year and the budget for next year, so it is very difficult to monitor the reduction and increase of budget individual items, because we refer to the original budget adopted this year as well as to the rebalancing that has already been made, and we already have a current rebalancing, so in this sense it is very difficult to monitor what is actually happening. And the second thing, in the 21st century, having a budget in this format means PDF, and it appears to be prepared in tables and that it could be much easier to search for us and the public is really inappropriate and I don't see any reason to present the budget in PDF format like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14245	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? If no one picks up, we'll continue at 10.55 hours. MEETING AT 10:42 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.58 HOURS]] On behalf of the promoter, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please. Please just keep a little longer in the air of this replica plate so I can catch up with my colleagues, okay? Please hold, and then you call, show who's registered, who hasn't yet. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14246	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear President HS, honourable MPs and MPs, I have the impression that we are getting more and more popular without speaking, and that's good. This is the largest number of replicas before a good day, but it is certainly because the topic is important and it is natural for Croatian MPs and MPs to express their position on the state budget, on projections for '22. and '23. You will allow me and Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Marić to share what we consider to be the most important and after that we are having a debate. Today's budget first in our second term can be called the budget which provides Croatia with economic recovery under the circumstances and unfortunately thanks to the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic. The goal of our budget is that despite Croatia's suffering economic consequences, the financial consequences, that Zagreb has hit a devastating earthquake, that all this has been reflected together in public finances, that we continue to support our citizens and to support the Croatian economy. We have already made important steps and shown that state aid, the role of the state, is irreplaceable when it comes to such shocks and unforeseen circumstances. We used the fiscal space that we created in previous years to ensure rapid and strong support for maintaining employment and overall economic activity. Our reaction was rapid and effective thanks to the measures taken by the government by 630 000 private sector employees, 107 000 employers maintained their activities, we made a series of measures that helped finance the costs of different economic operators in the various sectors despite this crisis. The consequence of these unexpected pandemic borrowing needs was that we had to carry out two rebalances with a fiscal effect of 23.5 billion. The total amount of funding by the end of the year to preserve jobs and active employment measures will cost us 8.1 billion kuna. We, in part or completely freed from paying taxes and contributions from different societies, delayed those payments, the budget cost $5.3 billion, supported more than usual the health sector, increased pensions and unemployed, increased the allocations for social care rights. For health care, pensions, unemployed, social welfare, an additional 8.6 billion kuna. In doing so, we have continued with our tax burden reduction policy, of course this 5th round, the 5th round of tax reform, 10 billion kuna in total, we expect the second reading to be in front of Croatian lawmakers soon. We did all this to enable everyone to overcome the burden of this crisis that we have faced, which we have neither been guilty nor planned. It is our policy to continue those activities that have been adorning Croatia for the past few years. I will remind you, we have come out of the excessive budget deficit procedure, we have come out of the procedure or removed excessive macro-economic imbalances, we have entered the European Course Mechanism 2, we have returned Croatia's investment credit rating, here's even Moody's raised us by one step, and we have significantly reduced the share of public debt in GDP by the third most conservative agency. All of this strengthened our reputation in both domestic and foreign financial markets, and also in terms of overcoming this crisis, especially in the spring, we found the most favourable ways to find ways to finance. When it comes to the 2021 budget, what's good is that after more, we can say freely, more pessimistic forecasts, it still expects an 8% drop in GDP, which is less than we originally planned. We expect 5% GDP growth next year, '22. 3.4 and '23. 3.1. The European Commission forecasts growth of 5.7% for Croatia next year, which is at the very top of the assessment of other Member States. As regards the revenue side of the budget, the projection period is determined by the expected recovery of economic activity and takes into account the announced effects of tax changes, in particular the income tax and profit tax system. A significant impact on the revenue of the budget will also have the withdrawal of funds from European funds, first from this current multi-annual financial perspective, so for another 3 years, and then of course from the next period, as well as from the EU New Generation instrument. A brief observation is only a small part of what we expect already in the 2021 budget when it comes to the views of some Member States that condition the adoption of the entire package agreed between Member States in July in the negotiations held by the Council, the Commission, Parliament. I would say that tonight we will also discuss this on the European Council to find a solution in order to stay within the framework of what was agreed in July, while ensuring that the two Member States agree to agreements that have been reached in principle with the European Parliament. In the variant that there is no agreement, you know, and I am sure that then the budget for the next year will go to the 1/12 model until an agreement is reached, and when it comes to the next generation's EU instrument, given the new character of this instrument, legal ways are currently being sought for it to come into force, and possibly through an agreement between the Member States, so beyond this framework that is now being negotiated. But that's something we'll try to avoid if we reach an agreement. As far as European funds are concerned, we've already talked a lot about this, in any case the total revenues of the state budget in '21. They're planned for 147.3 billion kuna. The expenditure side of the budget is, in turn, aimed at carrying out activities to recover and strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, ensuring adequate protection of all layers of the population. For recovery damage caused by an earthquake of 2.4 billion in 2022. 4.2 billion, all in total 8.4 billion plus additional international resources that we will naturally provide with the time ahead. Of course, we want to help those who are most needed in Croatian society, which means better status of parents of carers, carers of persons with disabilities, funds for national compensation for older people, increased parental leave rights for employed and self-employed parents, we will also maintain everything we have agreed on as regards local units provided for additional allocations, reached agreement at the level of mayors, cities and municipalities. Total expenditures are planned by us 157.9 billion kuna. We also had to secure this increase mostly because of the next points. First, compensation measures to local and regional self-government units due to a reduction in the income tax rate, which is around 1.5 billion kuna, staff expenditures including 493 million kuna education, funds for EU aid of 435 million kuna, pensions of 392 million kuna, contributions to the EU budget of 375 million kuna, guarantee reserves of 300 million kuna, decentralised functions of 214 million kuna, compensation for older persons 134 and other aid 115 million kuna. This direction of fiscal movements will result in a deficit of 2.9% of GDP on both the income and the distribution side, and in '21. The year we remain within the Maastricht criteria or convergence criteria, I mention it here because of the recently presented national change plan for Croatia's kuna as part of our Euro Introduction Strategy. It is extremely important that in 2021 we manage to stay within the deficit of 3% and 2.9 as planned. '22. We're talking less than 2.1%, l a '23. 1.6% of GDP. We also expect that, in the years ahead, the public debt reduction policy and the fall in public debt of 85.3% of '21, 83.4 '22, 81.2 '23. A year. All this is part of the wider process of the Croatian Strategy for the Introduction of the euro and ultimately strengthening the resilience of the Croatian economy. Our goal in this budget, which is specific and represents the first step towards a strong economic recovery in the years ahead, is to protect the most sensitive groups and encourage our entrepreneurs and our economy. Therefore, we want to give joint strong support to the most vulnerable, preserve jobs as well as this year, ensure the recovery of our economy, strengthen the health system and raise Croatia's resilience to the future crisis. Of course, this budget is part of the wider Croatian Development Strategy, part of what we will do through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, and we will have a debate on these two documents once after public consultation, and we will also discuss the other before it is adopted because I have the impression that HS and MPs want to make a contribution which is really good and useful. Here's so much for the introduction. I would now ask Minister Maric to add an explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14247	Wait a minute, please clear the pay phone. Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14248	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of Representatives and Representatives. Here is the lecture on the words of the Prime Minister I will relate to a few things that may not have been mentioned, although a large majority of that overall framework through certain expenditure items of individual from the expenditure side of the budget, and the same who and the income are already said. Since it is an integral part of this proposal and the Final Proposal for the State Budget Implementation Act for 2021, I would also say something about provisions concerning the law itself. There are a lot of local leaders in HS, and, of course, because of the Croatian public, we should present it as well. Otherwise, I'm going to say right away, the Legislative Committee has tabled two amendments that are more nomotechnical in nature and we accept them as such. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, the final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget, so first and foremost, is one of the topics mentioned by the recently respected representative Grbin, which is the issue of the European Funds in the budget itself. You have heard the words of the Prime Minister and indeed it is and out of the budget it can be read that indeed a much smaller amount of the total available funds is already foreseen in this budget for 2021 and its projections are 2'22. and '23. We can practically say that if we look at the total EU of the New Generation one small part of 200 million next year and 700 million in '22, respectively. And 800 million in '23. in the positions of the Ministry of Economy for Croatian Water. Also, the instrument called RECT-EU, which is distributed in its, in some ways, withdrawal between 2020, '21. or part of '22, respectively. And that's more or less that and then we still have the Solidarity Fund which in this law is precisely defined as planning 2 billion kunas next year, and then another 3 billion and 100 million kuna. All together when we round it is 5 billion and 200 million kunas from the Solidarity Fund and then the law defines that funds are allocated according to the already existing activities, in particular the Ministry of Civil Engineering, and all the rest is currently allocated to the Ministry of Finance, and then, in accordance with the government's acts and decisions and all those proposals, will be distributed by the resources. A very important topic is what we have already discussed in the rebalancing process that this year the state budget gave a billion and 500 million kunas of unscathed loan to HZZO and another billion and 200 million kunas of unambiguous loans to local self-government. Now I will not mention both HBOR and HAMAG who also received similar unambiguous loans, but this particular act provides for the dynamics of the return. So, as for the return of these interest-free loans, which are, for example, for locals, I'm going to call them locals, related to the return of income tax, he's going according to his dynamics as it is already within a year, as well as the delayed tax payments that occur in accordance with individual contracts, the return of these funds will naturally sit and return itself. However, the rest of the local self-government, as well as the HZZO, is now giving us the opportunity to return to the 3rd year, it says in the act itself. Then, defined and 2 billion kunas of the Compensation Fund, you know that, the other day we talked about, and the law will come soon to HS, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Finance Act, so to local self-government and local and regional, total loss of income tax revenue due to the announced changes in the Income Tax Act system, we can say, will be compensated in a way that the state budget will take over the full charge of the Balance Fund, 2 billion kuna, and by this act, in particular, by the 15th month of the current month, according to the calculations that we are doing in the Ministry of Finance, so nothing but we can practically say in advance, by the 15th of the month can be expected. We're also going back, of course, to what was a whole, whole series of years, those total limit of 3 percent borrowing. You know for a fact that now in the rebalancing and the correction of the State Budget Act for this year, we have raised that limit to 6%. In the coming days, or by the end of this week, we will issue a guide to define exactly which units of local regional or regional self-government have the right to comply with the criteria that we have established, and by the end of the year we will also grant additional unambiguous loans to assist in the liquidity of locals. Also defined is a subject which is more and more, more and more important and more important I would say in the implementation of the state budget, and that is the question so-called. Inadmissible costs. It is defined if determined by, say, the European Commission and the competent agencies, that there is a certain need to recover unacceptable costs, so it is first removed from the budget positions and budget users from their own revenues, and if they are insufficient then the possibility is given among other things and the redistribution from the general sources. And otherwise, as in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for this year, the pandemic of Covid puts the possibility of redistributing funds and beyond the prescribed frameworks of the Budget Law if intended, of course, for purposes which are health and the economy, that this can now be protected further, as well as the possibility of borrowing beyond the limits of the Implementing Act itself. However, in either case and in a drug case, we will not, of course, do so unless there is a need and without the knowledge of HS. In both cases, the Minister of Finance is obliged to come to HS, the Parental Committee on Finance and the State Budget and to report and elaborate as we have done all these months or all this time. It's defined or redefines, so we can say, the budget base, it doesn't change. The guarantee stock is 300 million kuna, a budget stock of 100 million kuna and, finally, what I would say is that the law itself found that the debt on the foreign and domestic market could be implemented up to a total amount of €33.9 billion, the current repayment of the general budget of the state budget of €22.6 billion, i.e. outside budget beneficiaries of 2.2 billion. I will repeat here what we always and traditionally say, therefore envisaged in the total borrowing of how it already well mentions the deficit of the state budget or the budget of the general state 10.5 billion of the state budget, 11.6 billion of the general government or 2.9% of GDP, but also the component of the financing account is all, all, the maturity. Next year's regular maturity at 3 months, here I'm going to say, only the biggest, regular maturity of one bond in US dollars of billions and a half, that's already in 3 months, in the 7th month 6 billion kuna on the domestic market. So, of course, the intention is to refinance this debt and we are safe in accordance with all these circumstances that still apply in the financial markets, as well as repairing the Croatian credit rating that we will do so again in favour of the state budget or taxpayers, with significant savings in terms of the costs of the interest itself. Here, given the time of this expires, of course we will respond to all the replicas and during the debate if there is any need for any further clarifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14249	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and now we move on to replicas, first they go to the presentation of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, so we have 23 here behind the assembly, a colleague of Pavliček with a video link and we have 7 from the other halls, means a total of 31 replicas, so I would like to pray to the Prime Minister, 31 replicas, and at the presentation of the Deputy Prime Minister we have 5 here from the Hall and 2 from the Hall, so a total of 7, all means 38 replicas, so I would like to pray to my colleague Bulja, he is the first to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14250	Thank you very much. You mentioned problems in Croatia that occurred, mainly earthquakes, the earthquake is a problem however 2/3 of Croatia's bad policies, promises, has a demographic breakdown and literally burned country after me because I am in the name of the club, the Split session of the government you have since achieved zero, nothing. It is understandable that you will say we currently have a Covid crisis needed by the economies and the way I divide the economy is also questioned because many are complaining, but I would ask you a key question. On the spending side, we have what we have, but on the revenue side, Croatia does not use its potential. While you do not wish to declare an exclusive economic belt and billions of Croatia loses, you because of good relations Italy is starting their parliament to declare an exclusive economic belt. Why are we losing billions and we're courting the Italians to draw our resources? Energy, ecological, fishing and others. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14251	Thanks, buddy Bull. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14252	Thank you very much, Mr. Bulj, for the demographic issues you have mentioned at the beginning, they are certainly the most important for the survival and development of the Croatian people and the Croatian state in all the years ahead. The most important event in terms of demographics will be safe and a list of the population we will have in the spring of next year, then we will all know together the real effects of a negative natural origin that has been with us for decades, and we will see a huge difference compared to the number of residents from 1991 to 2021, and you are sides of the measures we have taken for demographic revitalisation from less income tax for young people, from practical releases for those to 25, from 25 to 30 are crucial. As for what's going on in Italy, the foreign minister is having talks with his colleague to see where the measures are going, first of all, to Algeria. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14253	Thank you very much. Please don't throw it away, pal Bull. Let's move on, fellow Cellite.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14254	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, my question regarding the health care budget. The biggest wealth of the Croatian health system is people, but infrastructure investment is also necessary in building infrastructure. Here I would mention that even though 37% of hospital facilities are located in Zagreb, significant investments in KBC Rijeka where it is scheduled for next year for a billion 359 million kuna, KBC Rijeka is owned by the state and, of course, also investments in the General Hospital Pula where the government with 75% is financing construction and is scheduled for next year 52 million kuna as regards the budget, the state budget. So what I want to highlight is the importance of investing in infrastructure so that people can work with quality equipment and quality spaces. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14255	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14256	Thank you, beautiful representative Celic, it is true that this government has access to all Croatian counties in the same way, aims to encourage development, and also to enable infrastructure investments here in two very important hospitals, one KBC River of Investments that we have already brought there in this past term shows results, the works are making good progress, and as far as General Hospital Pula is concerned, I think we are here with a very good quality cooperation with Mr. Radin and with the director Dr. Hrstic found the first solutions that enabled the closure of the financial structure and that Pula, after many, many years of getting a quality hospital since not only during the year but also in summer there is a huge number of patients gravitating and thus creating a real health center in Istria and on this trail we will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14257	Here you go, fellow Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14258	Dear Prime Minister, we are interested in the Government of the Republic of Croatia rejected the proposals of the Most Representatives Club regarding the abolition of mandatory members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. We are interested in why you missed the opportunity to give Croatian entrepreneurs additional opportunity to free them of their additional liquidity for business, given the fact that for many years Croatian entrepreneurs are not satisfied with the service provided by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and crafts, which is required to pay mandatory membership fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14259	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14260	Thank you very much. As far as discharge, non-taxing, parafiscal duties are concerned, I think we heard a billion-dollar discharge in the last term, and I think 150 or 190 million kuna, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, as far as I know, has been going into major reforms, restructuring, savings, rationalization, and that's something that's been going on for some time. As regards membership fees, this is one way of financing their activities, we understand this problem, but so far we have not seen that in their activities the businessmen were just as uniformly opposed to all that the HGK and the HOK are doing for their membership, for craftsmen and for the businessmen, however, many of the useful things they have done were also for the benefit of their membership. We know there are some who are against it, but these processes are ongoing and this topic is a matter of HGK.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14261	Representative Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14262	Thank you very much. Mr Plenkovic, starting in 2011 until a few years ago, countries which were tax havens such as Switzerland, Liechtenstein, etc. were faced with the so-called. By breaking into banking secrets. And there were cases like Panama Papers, where they... And journalists discovered tax evasion at the world level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All the countries, from Germany, Austria, Belgium, Great Britain, have charged billions of so-called. Criminal tax for hidden money and the like. The only state that didn't charge anything is obviously Croatia. The question arises, or we didn't have any offenders who exported money to secret accounts and abroad, or you, the Croatian Government, the tax administration, the police, are alone involved so that Croatian taxpayers didn't even get swears of that criminal tax. I suggest you visit the Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, county courts, former and current government officials, Kalmeta, Bandic, Cacic, Rogic,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14263	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14264	Thank you very much, Mr. Kristo. This time, you did not go to your standard thesis of the Huškak on the Croatian-Serbian coalition, the Plenkovic HDZ coalition and Stanimivic's SDSS, but you are not overrun by the ad-hompic calling of people and attacks. But, well, it's your style and the Croatian public knows it, it's also good that members of the party within which you've been elected, although you're allegedly not a member. We listened to your demagogue the other day at the debate about Interpellation, full of inaccuracy, filled with false allegations, full of manipulation, but it is your style with half-down mask and it is important that the Croatian public knows. I will only answer that because your questions about the laws and institutions in Croatia are not in line with what is European practice, it simply does not stand on any of the topics you touch, you do not speak precisely and completely, so that is the answer you deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14265	Thank you very much. Comrade Tušek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14266	Thank you, well-respected Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Once again, the budget that is before us today is the continuation of one continuity of the responsible fiscal and economic policy of your government and from the past mandate and precisely because of such policy and such... Today we are able to preserve the liquidity of our economy, preserve jobs and create preconditions for the 2021 budget. It has 2 basic pillars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The focus of expenditure is to preserve the liquidity of our economy, preserve the security of our jobs and, on the other hand, preserve social security and the health standard of all our citizens. The focus of income at the moment when we relieve the additional tax press, grow, grow that.../incomprehensible/... generate the growth of new income and use the EU structural funds wisely, so that all those who speak about this budget in the context that it is too purple, I would say that this is the budget responsible and bold government that clearly manages Public finances and which have continued [[Intruder: Thank you.]] economic growth. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14267	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14268	Thank you very much, Mr. Tušek. I think you've hit the point of what we're doing, so both the rebalance and the budget, and the continuity of different circles of tax reform, we should look at the whole thing. First of all, because of the fact that it has been shown within our policy of tax discharge, both citizens and entrepreneurs, that in fact, as far as total tax revenue is concerned, we have increased the base, in this way achieved revenues, and on an individual level we have disbursed both citizens and entrepreneurs, and that policy has a very clear direction, a very clear philosophy, I am... Finally, concrete results, and this was also felt on pay increases, it felt like raising a minimum wage of 904 kuna, it felt to increase the average salary and ultimately a large tax charge for our shareholders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the philosophy of this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14269	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia envisions 2 billion kuna investment in the development of Banovina, Like, Gorski Kotar and Zagora. As Banovina is located in the Sisak-Moslavina County, which has about 41% of GDP per capita compared to the EU-27, it is clear that there is a need for exceptional investment. I am therefore interested, Prime Minister, from which sources the Banovina project will be financed and whether financial resources will be found under the project to create new jobs, so to invest in the economy, to keep the existing population in their place of residence, generational reconstruction of the village, but also to infrastructure, such as projects such as the fast road Popovaca-Petrinja-Glina-Slonj-Josiprol because infrastructure is important for people to stay in those environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14271	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14272	Thank you very much, Mr. Petyr. Since you come from Sisak-Moslavina County, it is natural to advocate the development of Banovina. Banovina is one of those parts of Croatia where we feel the problems of demographic character, where we feel perhaps the most in essence, in the entire Sisak-Moslavina County, the consequences of economic transition, and negative, although we have good signals about how certain creative young people, with the support of local political structures, have turned to those activities, for example the gaming industry that achieves great results. As for Banovina, we will go with our new programme announced in the Government Programme, which is the Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar, Banovina, modeling our activities in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and thus raising the total infrastructure, including these road routes that you are now talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14273	Now it's time for fellow Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14274	Your Honor, Prime Minister. Several times in this assembly I have had the opportunity to ask you a question about various topics, each time you have managed in surprising ways to respond to the HDZ which is understandable, but you have suffered both HNS and Stromar, which is so little inconclusive to me, but this time to spare you the trouble of getting Stromar and HNS into your answer I will ask you a question that is most closely related to HNS and Stromar. Namely, the entire past term of the HDZ and HNS government announced the construction of several key road routes, a fast road of Varazdin-Ivanec-Krapina, that is the Podravska highway and the Varazdin-Cakovec section, all of these roads are of exceptional importance for the region of the North. But not only has nothing been realized in the previous term, not only is it not foreseen in the 2021 budget but even the rebalancing has removed the estimated 87 million kuna for the first phase of the Varazdin-Krapino stock. So since the HNS code is still a member of the Croatian Roads Administration, please, when will it be and why is it not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14275	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14276	Thank you very much, Mr. Martincevic. I've heard here in public space that there are some brokers who are gathering liberal parties, so I'm a little surprised that you're going to build a thesis that this has something to do with party policy. Road infrastructure policy through Croatian roads, Croatian highways may have been the most channelled policy through loans, which through the budget in the development of road infrastructure we are of course to strengthen the development of road infrastructure in northwestern Croatia. There will be one such meeting with the mayors of the northwest on Monday, with Minister Tramišak on it, the meeting is in Varazdin. There will also be European MPs this time from HDZ who have engaged, and I believe that through excellent dialogue, quality open cooperation, respecting your efforts as representatives from the Varazdin County, we will find solutions that will improve road infrastructure with agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14277	Thank you. Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14278	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, this draft budget depends largely on the use of European funds, there are many items that show this. In your presentation, you mentioned this dispute between Poland, I hope you can hear me writing on your cell phone, you mentioned slowly between Hungary and Poland, but we haven't heard anything about your government's position in this dispute. So do you have the understanding to hold those two countries in this situation or are you more on the side of those who want to tie the use of European funds to their understanding of the rule of law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14279	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14280	Thank you very much, Mr. Bartulica. Since we do not belong to the Government or the regimes that you can call in your earlier appearances that are similar to Alexander Lukashenko, this Croatian government or the Croatian state has no problem with the rule of law, there is no problem with the mechanisms of control of the rule of law in the EU according to articles of the contract or the new mechanism that we recently mentioned here in a debate, and even less in the mechanism relating to the use of European funds. So, Croatia has no problem with this, it was a very clear position of mine that I raised on the European Council when we negotiated the conclusions of the European Council and finding compromises in July. What is now on the ground is new negotiations, negotiations between the three institutions of the Council-Parliament and the Commission. Parliament has additional requirements, it is our position that we should stay in principle within the framework of the July agreements, and through the implementing elements we will find a compromise between these two members and Parliament and we will stand up for it tonight, not as Lukashenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14281	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14282	The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. Istria's Ipsion and Pula General Hospital that's something that's good, we've welcomed that more than once, and it's not the first time from this pay phone in HS, but it's not enough. And I therefore want to use this replica as an opportunity to invite you to openness and inclusiveness when you take into account the amendments to the opposition, openness and inclusiveness that did not exist in the previous years, which can definitely bring or contribute to even regional development, but in a way that does not stop those most developed but allows them to continue to be a locomotive for the development of this country and thus directly and indirectly withdraw those who are slightly less developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14283	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14284	Thank you very much, Mr. Lerotić. I think you've been following our policy for the past four years, that I'm glad that you're happy with the continuation of investment and, in fact, very good at the dynamics of works by completing the completion of the Istrian Ipsilon, that you're pleased with the decision that we'll be working on another Tunel Učka, that you're satisfied with the fact that we've agreed on all the resources that are relevant to the General Hospital in Pula, and you're also certainly pleased that we've paid 4.5 billion costs for the ships that haven't been built by the Oilman. It is also quite a large part of the funds paid by the government in the previous term. As for the evenness of our engagement, if you give a little thought to what the Ministry of Transport is doing, regional development, economy, tourism, and many others in the Istrian County, then you will see that this policy is consistent, strong in order to benefit all of our citizens in Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14285	Thank you. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14286	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. In your opening statement, you spoke of increasing separations between others and health care, but I must question your own thesis. In fact, if we look at the rebalancing we recently adopted, it is evident that in the rebalancing period, the healthcare item amounted to 15 billion and 180 million kuna, and that it was reduced by over billions of kuna in the 2021 budget to 14 billion. Of course your answer will be that it was the amount for the drug debt wholesale, but the fact is that Mr. Prime Minister that much of this debt for medicines remains, and the budget for healthcare is reduced compared to rebalancing. Since the coronary crisis is still ahead of us, my answer, my question to which I ask is whether the health budget is stable and can you guarantee the functioning of the health system? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14287	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14288	Thank you very much. I think it's very good that we've made a rebalance, that the day after the rebalancing, after the rebalancing came into effect, held a cabinet session, made decisions for national hospitals, KBCs for example + children's hospital + Memorial hospital in Vukovar + quality redistribution of funds provided additional funds to all county hospitals. When it comes to health care, we have asked both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance and the HZZO to propose themselves in the context of activities for the next year of those reforms that will enable a) spending reduction, rationalisation, functional mergers, a better procurement system, and finally see how to do on this dissipating side a reduction in the trend of cost increases because this is what we are most concerned about, which is why debt is generated. This is the topic all Croatian governments are dealing with, and we will be dealing with this budget next year. which is sustainable. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14289	Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The difference between the 2008 crisis and today is that Croatia is a full member of the EU, and in fact, it is now seen that we could not survive if we were not an EU member, and that was a huge shortage in 2008. that a number of members then actually managed to endure the crisis. That is why my proposal, because next year's budget is heavily based on the state of the EU, the EU funds to share specific EU funds and funds so that citizens can see what is really a contribution and that this is actually some kind of national or general source to be each other, another package. However, my question is also about strategy. I see that you are saying that Croatia owns about 1100 companies, what do you plan on doing, and since it states that the share should be reduced, I think it is one of the same criteria for the commission, to reduce the share of Croatian companies, what are you planning to do in the next period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14291	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14292	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lalovac, it is true, it is much easier to sail through the management of this crisis because of the fact that we are in EU membership, part of the funds that we have hired this year to preserve jobs, to support the economy, has been and already included by the sources that we had available this year, part will, of course, be in the following year. Whether to technically try to gather in one place everything that comes from the EU budget, it is because of the dispersion by the resolutions a little difficult, but I am sure that Minister Maric and his colleagues will make one quality and clear and simple presentation to see what is the input, and how much is the way out, in any case we are now more than 28.5 billion in plus or paid. As for state property, yes, all that, where the Croatian state shouldn't be, we'll activate it, I don't think there's any dilemma and it's shown It doesn't make sense to have a share in too many companies. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14293	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14294	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, the budget is a complex document and is stolen by some failures, for example. In budgetary revenues, there is no item of 18.1 million kuna missing and 3.5 million kuna on the penalty item, and 14.6 million kuna on the non-payment item that HDZ will be required to pay according to the Fimi Media ruling. I know you're extremely irritated when you compare HDZ to the one from 2008. This, however, while each month or every 2-3 months you have to replace ministers for affairs, while not enough at local level you are building on the procedures of your local leaders, while state firms are suing for spoken words with state money representatives, and also your dearest Maras, there is no way we can let you just take off that label so easily or as you would say no way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14295	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14296	Thank you very much, Mr. Bauk. As far as these lawsuits are concerned, I think they're a disaster and I'm going to ask the competent ministers to see how it's possible that someone who's the chairman of the administration is going to press charges against parliamentary deputies for such a word, including former parliamentary representative Mr. Maras. That's inadmissible. So that's one, that's where I agree with you. I think worse than you do about it. Which is, and the other is, whether it's true what the MPs said. We can allow the MPs anything, you know, and this little slip as you call it because of the supposedly forgotten item, as you know, but as far as the label is concerned, I'm going to insist on it because it has nothing to do with me or the current HDZ leadership. And secondly, a complaint will be filed, so as a legal remedy, which will be later, we'll see. As for the projections then.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14297	Here you go, fellow Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14298	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President of the Croatian Government, I am interested in the specific meaning of the Center for Education and Education Čakovec in the past budget was adopted, we have put 2 million kunas, the rebalancing has been erased, I know it was done because of this situation by covid. But it was agreed in all resolution ministries that the centre should start to be built, a tender was scheduled by May, and construction was due to begin by autumn. That's out of the budget for '21. were now returned to the 2 million kuna and the rest was put into projections for '21, '22. and in '23. I'm interested in the fact that you're talking about the government taking care of the most vulnerable, and here we're talking about children with developmental difficulties, which is why these kids have to wait another year when we have all the papers solved, the license was made, and next year it could start building in 2 years, not 3 years. Build, at least that was the promise? Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14299	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14300	In any case, Agent Kovac, we care about the most vulnerable groups, it is seen from this budget, it is seen from everything we have done both in the crisis and in the first term, I think that in the end this school that we have completed in Pribislavci is completed and completed if you remember the additional funds not by the local community but by the government, our government in agreement with your mayor and that is, with the Mayor Posavac and I think we have done well there. In these circumstances, which required a number of extraordinary expenditures that I think we have responded to with maximum efficiency and well, we will look at what can be done over the year with these 2 million that are now allocated, to see that the project can be speeded up, but let me consult with the competent portfolio and with the finance minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14301	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14302	Good afternoon. Prime Minister Plenkovic's budget is highly optimistic about the 8% drop in GDP and projecting 5% growth. But let me remind you of a few things, your optimism is based on EU funds largely. We should remind our public that the previous amount of EU funds, the previous seven-year amount of Eu funds was less than just one pre-crisis amount, was less than just one pre-crisis year, which was also reminded by the economist, our famous Branko Podgorica. Another thing the EU funds themselves have proven not to help our economy or recovery, so I will remind you that in 2019 we had as much as 51 billion kuna exchange deficits, export exchanges with the EU. The second thing, it means only 15% of our small entrepreneurs and medium-sized entrepreneurs and even exporters. And the third thing We had a guarantee fund the other day where.../incomprehensible/... what these funds can even be used for. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14303	Thank you, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14304	Thank you, well-respected representative Peovic. I didn't quite understand any of the teachers you quoted, it wasn't likely because of the mask, look in principle, I actually agree with what your colleague, Lalovac, told you earlier. And he, as former finance minister, well recognised Croatia's economic, financial and economic better now in view of EU membership. You, if I understand correctly, are going with the thesis that this is not good. It was a taste of what you're asking. As far as our government's activities are concerned, we have arranged for 40 and 46% of the current envelopes, agreed 106, verified 36% much better, faster, more efficient going activities now, and this week at the end of 72 million EUR for OZIP on Ruđer you will see how Ruđer will look in a few years, 150 million that go from European funds to Croatian Končar, Croatian product, Croatian design. There's a lot of it, it's gonna come up, and it's gonna feel like this is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14305	Thank you very much. Comrade Dark Tarritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14306	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic's budget for 2021 is indeed under more complex conditions, and we must be fair and fair than the 2020 budget. We didn't know what was ahead of us in 2020, and so I think that this budget, which is related to 2021, is something we should try to look at in another context. In the public debate, the strategy for development of the Republic of Croatia is by 2030, but in the budget for 2021, in the part that talks about education, we should see what kind of Croatia we want in 2030, which are the activities that we will be developing because today young people should be enrolled in secondary schools and universities related to jobs that will be 2030. So I'm interested in the context of this budget we don't see it, we don't see any items for requalifying some others into other jobs, like Croatia and What kind of business is it going to be in 2030? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14307	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14308	Thank you, well-respected MPs Mrak Taritaš, I am pleased that you, as an experienced representative, recognize that this budget was made under specific circumstances, that despite this and the budget and the rebalancing, it was made within 100 days of this government and that it was delivered to the representatives here almost 3 weeks before it was discussed and it would be good for you as an experienced representative to tell those who do not have this experience that this is now a great European standard for the budget for Croatian practices and proportions, as the President of the Croatian Parliament has warned. As far as the 2030 strategy is concerned, I am pleased that you are showing everyone in a certain way an interest in this topic, the document is in public consultation, I think it is much more than a seminar work, and it will bring great attention to both committees and plenary sessions. And I expect your contribution, and I look forward to an even more inclusive debate, and many of you have participated in it, those who did not follow for those who participated will see it. in a parliamentary debate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14309	My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14310	Thank you. So I'm not going to put a budget on it, I'm not going to relativize it, I'm not going to put it on pedestal, but it's interesting Mr. Prime Minister to observe, let's say I'm going to tell your limbic system how you perceive some of the things that happen in society. So we know that consumption and savings are fundamental, so I'm going to call them economic elements that depend on economic growth, and also the conukture, and now very interesting, so that you predict exactly the revenues of $146 billion in 2020, we're going to skip it, we're going to say that in 2019 there were 138 billion kuna, taxes 80, 82, and the EU is going to agree very optimisticly 25 billion 2019, 14 billion, and our utilisation rate was only 40% in 2020 and what's most ridiculous to me, so in line with the theory of absolute income that says the increase in income decreases in consumption, and you're actually predicting that by tax reform that how you are Just a second, as you imagined. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that there's going to be an increase in consumption, I don't think so. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14311	My colleague, Heidash Doncic, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14312	Thank you very much. What is the objective of this budget and ultimately of tax reform and discharge is to provide people with sufficient resources in this crisis. The means of life, the means of crisis, and ultimately that needs to be generated and spent, consumption is an important, important component of GDP, and we think that this is exactly how we managed to achieve these results and economic growth in the years that were pre-crisis. I think you're showing your sense of reality today, and I think that if you were in our place, you put a number when it comes to revenue, we put 147, I don't know how much you'd put in, we put what we think from our projection that it's real and that we're going to try to secure our measures. We're not happy to be out of those budget surplus tracks, but that's just the circumstances. All countries are located in the world and in Europe in a similar situation, and we will seek your support to return to the path we have been on since '16. until the end of '19.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14313	Thank you. He will now be replicated by his colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14314	Your Honor, Prime Minister. Here are a few short questions, the answer can be even shorter. The first question is, who are we in line for GDP in Europe, of course per capita? The second question, which one are we for individual consumption? And thirdly, I'm curious about who we are by the downfall of the state budget or by the deficit in this newly created covid crisis?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14315	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14316	Minister Maric will tell you in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14317	Comrade Voter, here you go. You can't have a colleague Zekanovic now because we're going to end up with replicas and then we'll give you a break. ... Mr. Zekanovic didn't ask for a break? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, if it's nothing then we'll have to let you explain it can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14318	The Honorable President of HS. I'm so glad you respected the Rules of Procedure and gave me the opportunity to say what I had to say. But this is very interesting, so the Prime Minister here responds to here so far to 20 and several replicas and then comes back to Hrvoje Zekanovic and then doesn't answer me again. Is it hard to say we're the last or the last? Is that hard to say? But I don't really know. So say we are of the 27 EU members last, worse than us Bulgarians. And after the fall, I think we're the worst. So is that a problem to say here? So say it, okay. Are you responsible for this? You're not responsible. Well, I don't know. Someone's responsible. So, Honorable Prime Minister, I really asked a simple question and you could simply answer me what the Croatian public knows and the story would end. But here you didn't have the courage to say that worse than us, only Bulgarians, and by individual consumption per capita and per GDP per capita, and that we have the biggest decline in economic downturn in the EU. And here I will also mention such a very important thing that Croatian citizens know that in 2023 we will come to the level of development from 2008 and that we are stagnating, we are standing here to stand for 15 years. But it doesn't even matter, it doesn't interest Croatian citizens, they're interested, you know what they're interested in, they're interested in the guard, and that's your guard here, and then you act like one with heights, you say okay, we've got economic growth, the European money will come in and then the citizens have an impression, which, we're fine. And we're not feeling well. Be honest and say we're in a catastrophic situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14319	Thank you very much. I have to admit I don't understand you, you ask, and you know the answers, so you're right, but it's kind of unusual. I'll grant Stanko no problem. Before you, my colleague, Boris, asked for a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14320	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague of Zekanovic's. 238 doesn't know how to behave in a meeting hall by who knows which times. So he asks questions he knows the answers to, and the other one does not mention the club in which he seeks a break because he is otherwise a member of HRAST, and the president of Croatian sovereigns entered the Parliament with the Homeland Movement of course and with HDZ when he could, so I would ask for a reminder because he did not call on the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14321	I will give you a warning because you have misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure because I warned my colleague Zekanovic, but it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14322	Here I will even admit to my fellow Boric I made a mistake, I am a member of even the president of the Croatian Sovereigns party here that the public knows it, I always emphasize this time I forgot to say it. And you, president of HS, don't have to be a lawyer to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, he could have answered it himself or defended himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14323	I'm not the Prime Minister's attorney, I'm the lawyer of the Rules of Procedure, so you have to accept my role so I have to take care of the order in the assembly according to what it says in our Rules of Procedure, and let's make a joke that wasn't malicious. Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14324	Thank you very much. A colleague, Zekanovic, was injured by an article. The 238th prime minister is that he responds in what way he thinks we should, if it were up to Mr Zekanovic, we would never be in the EU. Here is Mr. Lalovac said what effects of the 2008 crisis were then on Croatia which today, that we also have an increase in credit ratings, that we have preserved employment, that we have an economy that functions accordingly are values for... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14325	Thank you. You know what you've got. Now we're gonna take a break, unless someone else picks up? No, I don't. At 12.10, we move on. MEETING AT 12:00 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.12 HOURS]] Now it's the honorary colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14327	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Dear Prime Minister, in your opening statement, you have said that through this draft budget you give strong support to the most vulnerable groups of society and care for those most vulnerable. It is commendable, and it would be credible if the draft budget did not deny you. So I ask you, why are we in a division related to the Ministry of Science and Education, and we know that the education system is precisely one of the most important for children with developmental difficulties because it is their first encounter with society as a whole and through it share certain experiences, why are we, for example, in this resolution of the Ministry of Science and Education, the only items that stagnate or fall significantly in relation to other children with disabilities? So let's say you give up the dynamics of the new building of the Center for Education and Education in Čakovec, as counterpart Kovac said, you are reducing 22% of the funds for raising and training children with developmental difficulties in primary schools. You're also reducing tools for helpers in the follow-up [[Intruder: Thank you]] What's that for? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] What did they do to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14328	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14329	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. When it comes to the most vulnerable groups, our government has shown both high levels and social sensitivity and concrete measures that have been very much in favour of all those in a demanding and difficult position, and we are particularly sensitive to children with difficulties and thus we have invested in a lot of centres and a lot of investment throughout Croatia. I remain in response to your colleague Kovac that after consulting and with the Minister of Finance and Minister of Science we will see what we can do for this center in Čakovec. And as for the other activities that concern the assistants in the follow-up, I think that we have so much increased in the last term that the funds compared to what we found in 2016, that you probably know yourself, and you used to deal with that portfolio, how much bigger these funds are, and not to say this last aid that went from 2500 to 4,000 kuna to parents as an additional step in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14330	Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14331	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to highlight a few European topics that may have been neglected in recent weeks, and have had some effect on both the budget and this year and next. The first one is the payment of €510 million for the Shore Programme, more than €3.8 billion reported by the President of the European Commission recently. These funds are part of the job protection programme 8 billion kuna. When we look at employment at 22, 29.2. million and 542 thousand, 15.10 million and 545 thousand employees with minimal unemployment growth. The second topic is a very important REACT-EU programme. Yesterday, the German presidency announced that a political agreement had been reached, €47.5 billion in addition to this envelope. Third, a very important health union announced by the same president of the commission to help fight the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14332	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14333	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavić. As far as European funds are concerned, we have said that already this year we have used everything we could, including redistributions, and you have contributed to it as a member of the government, you remember well, and I think we have made good use of these funds. These funds relating to the Shore programme to preserve jobs certainly contribute to this policy where we are practically after all of these almost 9 months of crisis we are on the same number of unemployed as before the crisis, which is contrary to those expectations of colleagues from the then SDP about 400,000 unemployed, which, of course, has not exactly happened because of the measures we have taken through and the real redistribution of those up to 5% + 2 budget rebalances + fast and effective measures to preserve jobs, and European funds will allow us to react quickly in the coming years and to redistribute our budget revenues that we will use for and employment measures. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14334	Here you go, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14335	Thank you, well-respected Prime Minister. My question will be referred to the concern that the government has about the east of Croatia, i.e. Slavonia and Baranja. I mean, I had that amendment in the last budget, and I'm gonna have it myself. It is not apparent that the government has provided funds to combat mosquitoes. This may seem trivial to someone who does not live in Slavonia and Baranja, but the nesting of mosquitoes is not only a health threat but also economically because it significantly disrupts, especially tourist activities in summer months. Since your mouth is full, you and your government are concerned about the East of Croatia, especially through the Croatian project, although I would call it the care of HDZ in Slavonia and Baranja, I wonder if the funds are foreseen in another item because you know, Prime Minister, mosquitoes bite and HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14336	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14337	Thank you very much, Mr. Highukovic. It would be good if you, as a representative from the 4th constituency who was not wearing a list at the last minute, came to the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. There you would also see the leaders of local self-government units, which are not of HDZ, which are very pleased with the emphasis that we have put in our current mandate on these 18.5 billion kunas, of which more than 16.5 billion kuna is already agreed for the development of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, and I think we did it without in any way showing that we are about to dry our right hand, it seems to me. You know very well who I mean, maybe they're bit by the mosquitoes, by the mosquitoes I think they are. We know mosquitoes are a big problem, they're not just a problem in Slavonia, there's a problem in summer in many other counties, and we've reacted whenever it takes from the county level, and of course with As a national support, so will the future. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14338	Here you go, pal Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14339	Dear Prime Minister, I would like to stress the exceptional importance of the continued assistance of the Croatian Airlines Government. For years, it has been said whether we need Croatia Airlines or not, I am now speaking from the position of Mayor of Dubrovnik, a city that has no highway and will certainly not have a highway for some time. Croatia Airlines represents our air bridge towards the capital, as well as other international destinations. It is therefore extremely important that the government continue to assist this state-owned company to open a window to the citizens of Dubrovnik and not to be an island. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14340	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14341	Thank you very much, Mr. Frankovic. When it comes to Croatia Airlines, we, in line with what we are doing in communication of notifications to the European Commission, made a decision on granting state support last Friday worth 88.5 million kuna, we believe that this is an important support. Croatia was a tourist country yesterday, and today it will also be after the covida-19 crisis because of this we want to have our national carrier whose 30th anniversary it was recently. It is also on this trail and counting the importance of tourism in Dubrovnik-Neretva County that we can say south of Ploč because this is the point where the highway ends at the moment, we know how important it is for you and we think that we will ensure that we will ensure that the next season if it is a vaccine slowly returns to the numbers that will allow you a normal economy. And I believe that we are satisfied in how we have managed to help you and other units of local self-government because of the lower incomes this year in the period ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14342	Thank you. I've got a colleague named Bilek on the list. I see he's not on. Then be my guest before my colleague Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14343	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. So in the opening statement, you mentioned compensatory measures for local and regional self-government units, after which Mr. Vice-President of the Government also mentioned the JLS Compensation Fund. So I am just interested in other than these measures we have had through the Ministry of Regional Development and one part of the competition that has helped in units of local self-government so that we can run for European funds or participation in European funds, so I am interested in what will happen in the coming years because they have been announced that this will go because we know that we have almost a little more than 23 billion opportunities to withdraw EU funds. Many of these projects are just designed to develop areas that are not sufficiently developed in the Republic of Croatia, and many of our units of local self-government may not be financial capacity enough to withdraw these funds without saying that they are basic funds for water, sewerage and something that means living conditions in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14344	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14345	Thank you very much, Mr. Bilek. It is true, it is very important that, first of all, in these negotiations that were concluded in July and which ultimately resulted in 23.5 billion euros for Croatia plus these 683, so we come to the 24.2 funds from the EuSef to help the City of Zagreb to repair the damage from the earthquake, that we succeeded if you remember with the support of some other members to negotiate that the national component is not 25%. So if there were 25% it would have been especially for us as a new member and that fact is not 25 but 15 is very beneficial for the whole next decade for Croatia. Somehow we forgot it lightly, but it was one of our strategic goals in the negotiations on the new VFO. We will, in accordance with the possibilities, find the means to help our units of local and regional self-government just to finance their share of project realization and more than it has ever been today because it is good and useful.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14346	Thank you. Now my colleague Juričev Martinchev will replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14347	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Prime Minister. In your presentation, you spoke among other things about which segment of our society you are in 2020, in which way and how helpful you are. I would like to thank you on this occasion and to commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia who, with 1.34 billion, paid debts to the large-scale enterprises that had our hospitals and there was among other things the General Hospital of Sibenik-Knin County received more than 21 million kuna, although one of the three county hospitals that had no debt is more than 365 days old. In fact, this time, you have been guided by the criteria to settle 40% of the debt of more than 60 days, respecting restrictions, labour efficiency and the level of correction of the regime. I think it's extremely right, well, I thank you this time, because so far, all the hospitals that have owed less than 365 days have not received funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14348	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think you mentioned this new logic to redistribute those funds to county hospitals. It is not good that rebalancing only rewards those who are in a very deep offside, this time we have tried to find criteria that will help those who are more responsible and pay their commitments eventually and realise jobs in accordance with the limits that they are intended to do. In any case, the issue of the functioning of health care, health reform, finding ways to reduce costs, finding ways for a more effective health system still available because we live in tradition and practically accessible health system and scope of rights must be one of the basic tasks and reforms to be dealt with by this government in the next four years. I have the impression that in Sibenik-Knin County, the situation is now satisfied with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14350	Thank you. Now it's Comrade Tomasevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14351	Thank you. You mentioned the Prime Minister and you and the finance minister that around five billion kunas are expected from the EU Solidarity Fund to rebuild Zagreb and the surrounding area after the earthquake, but as far as I know, this money is not intended for the reconstruction of private buildings. And according to the ministry, 90% of the buildings damaged in the earthquake are just private buildings. Now, I want to know how much the budget for next year provides for total money for the reconstruction of private buildings and how much of that money comes from the general revenues of the state because I remind you that the state has committed to the law that we have adopted to finance 60%, and in some cases for socially endangered citizens and 80% of the renewal, so I'm wondering how it is possible.../incomprehensible/...means what amount it is and how it is possible for such dynamics, given the dynamics that citizens expect next year about the renewal Especially those who have lost their homes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14352	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14353	Thank you very much. They well understood that these funds coming from the EUSF were funds used mainly for public institutions, we kept communicating and saying, so they relate both to infrastructure and to buildings in health, education, culture, etc., the heritage can all be financed by these means. There's one important difference, I'd like you to take care of it, I think you know that these public institutions are the ones that I've listed big buildings, with huge damages, big ones, they might be small in numbers compared to the percentage of units, but they're very voluntous in terms of damage, so that's what needs to be taken into account. When it comes to private buildings, we will, of course, keep our commitment to what we said in the law, which is why there is this fund with the special director, with the council, with the measures that we have taken to find funds among other things and through lending and banks very favourable plus the part that applies to 240 million this year. A billion in the next for private, that's just a small part of it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14354	Thank you. Now let's go to colleague Marijan Pavliček, so video connection, here's your colleague Pavliček, ask a question or replicate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14355	Dear Prime Minister, a lovely greeting from all of Vukovar, I have a question. This budget for me is a list of beautiful desires and one would think that honey and milk flow in Croatia, and far from that, you know, we all know that because when you compare the income side and the expenditure side with the 2020 budget before the pandemic crown, one would say that nothing happens to us. In addition, I am particularly afraid that a large part of these funds are European funds located in Brussels, not at risk in Zagreb, but I am particularly concerned that I have not seen a single true item for the demographic restoration of Croatia. You and we both know that without demographic restoration, the Republic of Croatia is writing to all of us in black, especially the geographically devastation of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14356	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14357	Thank you, well-respected representative Pavliček, since you are coming from Vukovar, I am sure you know very well how much the Croatian Government has done for Vukovar in the past term. We tried to do this in cooperation in accordance with the commitments we made at the government meeting on November 17th 2016 in Vukovar plus a series of activities through the city of Vukovar development fund, a series of activities for infrastructure, a series of symbolic nature and job conservation, housing and other areas that are essentially focused if you want to add to the demographic revitalisation of the east of Croatia and the city of Vukovar itself, and as far as demographic measures are concerned, they are spent through the activities of all resolutions, from funds for co-financing of residential loans through the Ministry of State Property and Construction to tax redistributions that go through the Ministry of Finance or measures to be taken by the Central State Demography Office. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14358	Now we're going to the MPs and the MPs who were in the other halls. The first one's a respected colleague, Grman Kizvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14359	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Plenkovic at the 6th month when you won the crown under quotes in your pre-election program, you promised that you would share the birth benefits for the other 6 months. This is what you promised in 2016 in the programme Reliable. So correct me if I'm wrong, it goes on for the fifth year that you certainly and crediblely do not keep your promise. Are you perhaps waiting for the census next year to see how many of us are gone and start taking the right demographic measures? My question is, when are you going to share birth benefits, not how much you're going to increase them, but are you going to share them as you promised, and that the Covid crisis is no excuse for you because the promise is much older than the beginning of the crisis? You don't need to save on kids, do you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14360	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14361	Well, I think the esteemed MPs you'll remember that the amount that was in your SDP's time was 2,600 kuna. Do you know how long it is now? How much? And there are a little more colleagues, 5,600 of us increased it by 3,000 kunas, so by 3,000 kunas, in this way we have practically already reached a plane that was what we call demeritation, and the direction of further strengthening of rights will go in the mandate that is before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14362	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14363	Thank you, Mr President, here I am sorry that the Government has refused MOST's proposal to disburse our entrepreneurs and craftsmen of the suspension of membership fee for HOK or HGK, I will be constructive and I will give you two suggestions on how to increase the revenue side of the budget, namely the European Commission's 2013 study, would estimate that the value of fish catches would increase by 31 million EUR per year by a significant part in our budget. Here, I ask you to accept the MOST's proposal to declare an exclusive economic belt, and secondly, here's Minister Maric, the lack of property, we all know that you have nothing to do with Sanader's HDZ that our president has nothing to do with it, that Mr. Bacic has nothing to do with it, that Mr. Boric has nothing to do with it, so when you have nothing to do with changing the law that we can explore this period, and not just for the last six years and so on, significant appropriations in the budget. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14364	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14365	Thank you very much. As far as your first question is concerned, I have already answered this question to your party colleague at the beginning of these replicas, as far as this second issue is concerned, all institutions have all the mechanisms and all the tools to work and explore any illegally acquired property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14366	My colleagues, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14367	Dear Prime Minister, I was in a good spirit and a constructive tone, so I would warn you not to deceive the Croatian public, you hurt the Rules of Procedure's article even though it does not apply to you, but that the MP did so you made a lie. In fact, your government has abolished that the IRS can investigate the disproportionateness of property disproportionately throughout the entire period, I don't know, until 2005, how it was. You've put in law that only for the last six years, that's what you're doing. Exculpated this father's age. [[Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14368	Thank you very much, very much, very much. You know for a fact that you've replicated, and you're not looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Comrade Pavić, I've already warned my colleagues, so I don't see any reason why you're looking for an injury now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14369	I'd like to use it because my colleagues in the Bridge are constantly breaking the article. In 238, insulting the prime minister, insulting the government, that is not how the budget is discussed. Exactly the subject is the budget, Art. In 238, he makes it clear that there is a need to talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14370	Comrade Pavić, you are now getting a second warning because there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I have given notice, so that was quite enough, what you said was not necessary. Comrade Grmoi, I have warned my colleague Pavić. Here you go, but you're putting yourself at risk of getting another warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14371	My colleague Pavic, you have injured an officer. 238. I didn't insult anyone, I was very gentle, I don't know what kind of approach you like, what kind of approach you like, you like perfumes, some kind of nicer approach and all that, but I was totally smooth and nice. So I don't know what kind of approach you like. Yeah. I didn't. No, the prime minister made a lie, yes. He denied it because the tax administration cannot investigate the whole period until 2005 but only for 6 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14372	Col. Grmo, Note No. 2, that's quite clear. Let's move on. Now it's time for my colleague Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14373	Dear Prime Minister, Croatia has been devoured and woven by corruption from top to bottom and no way to have any argument that you can deny or convince me otherwise. I wonder if you are ready in the new anti-corruption strategy to introduce full fiscal transparency, which means a full display of all individual payments and payments at the level of all state bodies, all ministries, all agencies, all extra-financial funds, based on a elaborate proposal to be referred to by the opposition or on the claims made by Dari Hrebak, that he has entered a coalition with HDZ because you promised him to fight corruption and transparency, enter the chronicles of political naivety?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14374	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14375	Thank you very much, as far as transparency is concerned, as you know about public information on all the activities related to budget spending, I think that we have made a major step forward and in the current mandate, you, as you know in accordance with strategic planning, are agreed that the Ministry of Justice will take action to develop a new anti-corruption plan for the next period. The Minister of Justice has the task of forming a working group and that the task force prepares an action plan to cover everything we consider important to curb corruption in Croatian society, as a negative phenomenon that we condemn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14376	Comrade Bencic, please, it's your turn now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14377	Dear Prime Minister, here we are with corruption, do you feel that the amount of the 14.5 thousand kuna that you have foreseen in the budget for the government's fight against corruption and implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, especially given that Mr. Bacic said that HDZ is the pillar of the fight against corruption. It seems to me that with 14.5,000 kuna you can't even buy that arrive. She would also ask you if it would seem wise for you to pay a total of 18 million kunas to the Republic of Croatia for your responsibility for the FIMI Media corruption affair, for example, to use it in this position and to give some significant means to implement the anti-corruption strategy because it is amazing that we have this item in the budget at all, if we have allocated only 14.5 thousand kuna to it, which is less than the pay of the Assembly representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14378	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14379	Thank you very much, counsel Bencic. As for the anti-corruption strategy, I assume you understand that this is a job that is inter-resorial, which includes regular activities of a series of resistors. It may not be familiar to you, but let's just say, the BOOK is fighting corruption... Police are fighting corruption, courts are condemning someone who may have been convicted of acts of corruption that have a corrupt character. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] These are all funds coming from the budget. As for the government's activities and action plans and everything we've done, especially when it comes to, for example, special activities in companies, so in terms of public governance, these are the things where we've done great steps, made educations, made codes of conduct, codes of conduct in public companies, and on this trail we will continue in a cross-resorial manner, as we have so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14380	Now it's time for my colleague, Big Billic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14381	Dear Prime Minister, my question will be focused on children's allowance and child poverty in Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should particularly protect the family, children and the poor, but the fact is that in Croatia the relevant rate of child poverty is almost 20% and there is much more, but I only have a minute, so I will focus on the following, which is that in your pre-election programme of the safe Croatia promised to double the amount of children's allowances, but it did not happen or was included in the budget. Yes, the number of children entitled to it has increased, and yes, the SDP has sent a proposal to amend the Law on Supplement to increase the amount so far by 50%. But when the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their parents, seeing that you did not put that part into the budget for the next period, can they expect the execution of the promised?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14382	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14383	Thank you very much. I am pleased that a number of SDP representatives are thus thoroughly studying the HDZ electoral programme and the Government programme, what is quite clear and ultimately, it has been written, all these measures are foreseen for a 4-year term, not one sentence implies this in the first year of the mandate, and in particular not to implement everything in exceptional circumstances when we have to find solutions for the financial structure and budget and to help the private sector and to increase wages in the public and state service and for the favourable borrowing and retention of the investment credit rating and for the steps towards the euro. So all these activities will come on the agenda, but they can't all be in the first financial year this government proposes. I believe that anyone who, realistically viewed the circumstances in which we are today, is quite understandable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14384	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14385	Dear Prime Minister, you mentioned the savings you managed to make, as well as the disbursements of entrepreneurs you're going to spend in 2021, which, of course, we support, but we're not to cut budget funds on items that aren't really possible. I would warn of an item concerning the Veleukities of Croatia Zagorje and Krapina, you are familiar with this. It is, in fact, that you planned 2.5 million kuna in the budget for personal income and about a million kuna for external lecturers. The actual costs of that university at the level of the year are about 5 million and 900 thousand kuna, so from here it turns out that there are actually approximately 2 million and 400 thousand kuna missing. I'd remind you there's another debt. I know it's not a direct government debt but it's a debt of former founders, but someone needs to make up for it since it's a debt that's to lecturers, so I'd like to ask you to accept the amendment that I'm about to submit, which will ensure the smooth work of the university.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14386	Here's your answer. Thank you very much. As for the City Hall in Krapina, we have already found solutions last year that will essentially solve one, as you would say, a residual situation that has no responsibility with the government, nor with the Ministry of Science and Education, but with the founders, but we have realized how important Velect in Krapina is for Krapina County and for all those who attend it, for ultimately the results they produce, so in agreement between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Science and Education we will try to find solutions to close in the proper manner of the obligations that remain.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14389	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, you often call for co-operation and consensus in key, in the adoption of key documents for the Republic of Croatia. The state budget is certainly one of these basic documents that defines the development of the Republic of Croatia for the following year. And in your presentation you said and supported just the contribution and participation of all MPs to bring through the debate as high as possible budget. I would like to ask you, have you finally given up on the old custom, the bad custom or the exhausted model that the budget is being passed by overvoted majority in the assembly, or will you accept the proposals of those who are constructive and realistic and reasonable in order to supplement the very high standard you have mentioned, and that is not just 3 weeks of sending material to the parliamentary representatives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14390	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14391	Thank you very much. Mr. Demetlika, if I understand correctly these three weeks, you're experiencing as a positive liquid. ... Well, that's good, that's it, so you tell your colleagues it's good. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] As far as the amendments are concerned, here is the debate today, you know how business is already going, there are a few days to submit, or we are going to consider the amendments that will arrive, each amendment will be taken very seriously, as we do otherwise. We will see what will possibly work out better from your angle than we did from our proposal level, and if there is room for certain amendments to be adopted, we will try to accept it, but since I don't know exactly what you mean at this point, I find it difficult to say this, in any case each amendment will get attention thoroughly from both the technical point of view and the financial and ultimately the purpose and the whole of the budget as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14392	I thank the Prime Minister. I would only ask the lady to wipe out the pay phone and prepare the vice president and finance minister, the respected Zdravko Maric. 7 replicas have a deputy prime minister, first is a colleague of Zurovec's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14393	Dear Minister, I would just like to point out that what you have stated is realistic, the money for HZZO is realistic, given the efficiency, so to speak, the money was thrown away. I also want to know about local and regional self-government itself, do you think that it will then increase the share of local and regional self-government GDP above 7% in view of these reforms? I would also point out that we should perhaps listen a little more to the Association of Entrepreneurs in view of their own, I can say the sharp remarks that I believe should still be preserved by the economy because they are the drivers, who feed us. Also, here on several occasions we talked on the Committee on Finance about employee expenditure, we see that they are growing, and you said yourself that this mass of wages should be reduced, so now I'm interested, so it's not that the prime minister or government don't listen to you, yet you're the chief financier in the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14394	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14395	Thank you very much, Your Honor, so here's the last thing I'm going to do. As for the pay mass, so I think we should talk first of all, I'll repeat my words from before, about the quality and the service we get for that wage mass. We have been trying all this time to balance between the possibilities and the possibilities, not just the need and desire, but the union representatives, but our employees, too, that is realistic and possible. So I'm going to repeat that with both 1.1 and this agreed increase of 4%, we're practically talking about an increase in individual salaries or basic salaries by almost 20%. As for the recommendations of the Association of Entrepreneurs as well as other economic players, we are sure to consider them. Of course, a similar concept can be said in a way, which is the balancing of what is possible and what is in some way a desire. However, I think everyone was very aware that this pandemic has shown how and how we view the economy itself. We'll keep doing that. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14396	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14397	Dear Ministers, you mentioned in the law on the execution of a interest-free loan approved by JLS and HZZO and we see that this loan was used over 198 units. I think it's very good and it's a very good process that you've predicted in the new law on enforcement because it's obvious that units could have been able to easily monitor and maintain liquidity, and in addition, the state is, as we see in the last few days, actually having so much rating that it has made it possible for it to have the means available to support, in fact, the existence of units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14398	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14399	Thank you well-respected MPs and you for your replica and comment. And you as a long-standing I would say, the leader and the one who deals with local budgets, and now also at the head of the Assembly Committee on State Budget and Finance, it is good that you, of course, as well as many others, and not only the members of the Committee itself, but what I am pleased to do, and local leaders who are MPs, unrelated to the position or opposition, recognize that the Government has made it in an adequate manner and practically self-initiative way in this direction to enable this possibility of giving these unambiguous loans immediately because we have assessed that liquidity for this year will be extremely demanding, and that if anyone comes as easily as possible to that liquidity, it will be the central budget, and that is why we have gone in this direction, and the interest of local self-government, HZZO and similar, of course, the confirmation that we have done well. I have just presented the changes myself, and by the end of the year we expect another 500 million kuna of new loans that we will approve, which of the cities, municipalities and counties are crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14400	.../incomprehensible/... now it's time for your esteemed colleague, Habian, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14401	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor. Here, yesterday on the pages of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a text mentioning, among other things, projects funded through EU funds, such as the construction of the Peljega Bridge, hospital equipment, hospital construction, development of the Dubrovnik airport, there is also the mention of the FoI campus in Varazdin. The fact is that thanks to this particular government and the ministry and the use of EU funds, a new student restaurant was built in the town of Varazdin, a new dormitory was built, but we are still waiting for the construction of this particular campus in the city of Varazdin. I must point out, unfortunately, it has been going on since 2012, where the SDP government has actually failed to negotiate with the EU Commission and build the very infrastructure for November campuses. So, please, can we expect this project to start in the new budget period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14402	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14403	Thank you very much. Yes, it is also an emphasis on an even better and better quality absorption of funds will be in this three-year period, and therefore more when we talk about the system of education and science and in general everything that is investment in the future. So to the young and to the future. So that part is safe and fellow Fuchs and we're all together in the government, of course we'll take special care of it. I'm going to use the rest of my replica to kind of link what you said to some previous and replicas and the Prime Minister and in general what we've heard so far, there's a very good proposal by my colleague Lalovec, but in some ways, I can say, in particular, this is for new representatives who may be the first time today and see the State Budget itself and his, in some ways, component, has a document called the Budget Reasoning, that's one short, on 20 and some page document that very, very nicely and clearly divides what's being funded from so-called. general sources in relation to EU funds, and I think that It's good to look at, specifically, page 17 and we'll [[Intruder: Thank you.]] During the debate, a little more detail about it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14404	Comrade Mandaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14405	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, I would take advantage of the opportunity and stress the importance and the project Slavonia, but also the future announced projects for both Zagora and Lika, Banovina and others, but with this project there is another one that has no title, which has greatly helped rebuild and develop in areas of undeveloped local self-government in development, not only municipal infrastructure, but wider social, infrastructure in culture, sport, education, pre-school education, which are actually government policies of fiscal balancing and policy compensatory measures towards local self-government units that are below that average. It turned out back a few years ago that the model is more than successful, that units of local self-government can be engines of development of exactly that kind of infrastructure and then work and what we see is that in 2020, in 2021, the budget provides for 2 billion kunas precisely for compensatory measures, I think that will help and we need this in the future as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14406	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14407	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here's how you also confirm that the government and the central budget, and in this way, not only in response when the pandemic broke out, as Commissioner Peric said, but we've been watching this whole time just budgeting local self-government, I love it in a way and simplify it and say that it would actually be crazy to ignore the budgets of local self-government because they are an integral part of the general government budget and public debt. We went again with a proposal that we consider to be a more systematic approach. We have, of course, had some activities that have meant direct compensation over the past years, this time we decided on this more systematic approach, that this balancing fund that you speak well and whose primary purpose is, that it is precisely financially working on a more balanced development of all our regions, cities, municipalities, counties and that we simply do not deprive their residents of precisely implementing those key measures. So we'll be on that trail, and I'm sure, soon, and we'll discuss it. when the law comes to the Croatian Parliament itself. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14408	Thank you. Comrade Jeckov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14409	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We all know how much agricultural development is necessary and important. I ask you to comment on the fact that you are commenting that 85 million is scheduled for rural development, 107 million kuna is intended for fishing, bovine animals, sugar beet producers, and 61 million kuna goes to debt and court rulings. I beg you, for the sake of the public and for the sake of the present, to explain to us what this is really about when we need 61 million kuna for the above.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14410	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14411	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have well absorbed the same intentions of ours that, from the general, therefore, our sources of taxpayer money, but also European funds, as much as possible, we are focusing more on rural development, agriculture, all that will provide, on the one hand, the subject of more equal regional development, but I also think that we are all fully aware of how important food is, how important agriculture and self-sufficiency I think this pandemic has best shown. You've referred very well to these judgments, and I've talked about it in the presentation of the rebalancing itself, until the end of the year just as much as we have to ensure in different ways, in particular it's more or less about the rule of certain irregularities in the withdrawal of funds from some previous years, and then it's been a long time waiting and, among other things, the case law is such that when you end up in the end, you rarely have a higher outcome, the expenditure on interest compared to the principal. And that is why it is necessary, of course, to take care of all these instances. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14412	Thank you, Minister. We now have two more replicas for the colleagues who were in the other halls, the first colleague is Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14413	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament Mr Jandrokovic, the respected Minister Maric, about a month and a half ago, or more precisely on October 5th, I referred you a parliamentary question on the subject of budget, budget assessment and what this new reform will do in terms of the Primorje-Gorski County, Istrian County, the budget of local self-government. The answer hasn't arrived to this day, it hasn't been delivered. Have you ever done such an analysis and, for example, how this reform will affect the third city budget of the Republic of Croatia, specifically on Rijeka. How to discuss the state budget, how to discuss one such important topic if we don't have all the data, if we don't have all the analysis, I want precise figures, and so please don't put me at risk of not voting on the budget, that I can't support reform without concrete, precise data. Please tell them now or deliver them to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14414	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14415	Thank you very much, Your Honor, of course, for answering your representative's question with details and I suppose when you say reform you're thinking about that tax section and what that would possibly mean, so I'm going to refer myself to and connect the answer to your line with these previous ones. So, cities and municipalities, according to the new proposal, have increased their share from 60% to 74%, from 17% to 20, and those remaining 6% remain the same as those cities, municipalities and counties compared to these decentralised functions. All that part that remains will be taken over by the state budget, and will go towards economically weaker cities, municipalities and counties. Since you mention Rijeka and Istria there are in absolute and relative numbers smaller, less those below the level of development, however, all of which are common, the city or county when we look at the overall effects should not be minus. That was the principle of all this time we talked about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14416	Thank you. Let's go to the last line, for the Minister of Finance, dear colleague Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14417	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister would first conclude that the budget is planned to help maximise the sustainability of our economy, preserve jobs in particular in 2021, then in 2022 and '23. And jobs are growing, jobs are growing. However, what I have come forward for is the financial plan of the Croatian Roads, of course you can't explain every programme here when you are exhibiting. I must conclude that, in the financial plan of the Croatian Roads, this item grows 325% in 2021 compared to 2020 and there is planned 447 million kuna, 2022. The 502 million kuna and the item provide for the construction of a fast road between the other and Bjelovar, but also towards Koprivnica and Virovitica and for the public, I think it is important to stress this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14418	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14419	Thank you very much, Your Honor, here is more, I would like to comment and you have made a very good understanding of the budget, and I have to admit that 90% of the debate in the Croatian Parliament when we talk about the budget comes down to the central state budget, but there are also, of course, very important these reflections of the individual representatives you refer to and the extra budget users, Croatian roads are an extremely important extra budget user and because of their share and contribution to the budget itself, but of course even more because of the investment and general of everything, all the activities that they do among other things. So within these possibilities, you've been well-recognized, the budget has to work for the next year and do what it's done over the past years and so on at the beginning of this pandemic itself, and that's to be ready for all the challenges. On the one hand, preserve social stability and all that is important among other things, but also give an adequate response, impulse and incentives to the economy in overcoming these crises and in no way ignore investments and a view in advance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14420	Thank you very much. This is what we've come to the end of, intro exposure and replicas. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? If not, then I'm opening a debate and announcing a break. So it's going to take up to 13 hours and 10 minutes, then they're going to talk clubs, there's 13 times 10, 130 minutes, so about 2 hours then we're going to take another break and then we're going to go with individual discussions. So we move on at 13 o'clock and 10 minutes. It's 1:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14421	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 13:20 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14422	Thank you, Vice President. At the end of a difficult year, we are caused by a pandemic of the coronary virus that will certainly leave the long-term consequences not only on the Croatian economy but also on Croatian health care that has been looming in debt and difficult problems for years. This proposed budget will certainly not make any progress and will not lead to any significant shift. The fact that we can't escape is that we're all prisoners of an outdated and inefficient management model that this government continues to push, which is rigid centralization. The IDS Club keeps talking, and in the future it will be constantly talking about decentralisation as long as the ruling is not worthy of hearing it. Often, friends from Europe are mentioned, so I suggest that we look at a little bit of how the regulated countries of Europe do it from Germany to Denmark, ask them a little bit about what the budget process looks like and explain a little concept of transparency. Every year, the IDS Club proposes a series of amendments to the budget, so that's how we're going to do it this year. We will propose concrete capital and development projects and programmes whose realisation would allow for further growth and development of Istria, improvement of social standards and thus a greater quality of life for our citizens. These are projects and programmes that contribute to further economic growth and development, not only at regional but also at national level. And I repeat what we have said many times from this pay phone, what is good for Istria is also good for Croatia. But ours, as well as the other opposition amendments, is regularly rejected by the Government every year, and only because they come from the opposition. I deeply hope that this difficult situation in which we are in this very challenging year will contribute to the government's different approach because it is not possible that any opposition proposal, the opposition amendment, is simply not good. It is time for this country to make an exception and stop ignoring opposition parliamentary deputies because it ignores all those citizens who have chosen us and thus you say that you are not the Government of all but the Government of only some. We hope that this year's concern for all citizens of this country will be overcome by the reverse, primitive and limited logic of party exclusion that you led back in the past years. The projects we propose aim to increase the quality of life of our people in Istria, and indirectly to the whole country because Istria is the battery of the state budget. We pay more in the budget every year than we get back. The IDS Club will submit 39 amendments to values over billions of kunas. When we look at the amendments, the most issued will be that personal disability increase from 1,500 to 1,750 kuna, we are talking about an amendment worth around 107 million kuna. Since the Included Supplement Act is delayed year after year, we believe that accepting this amendment would at least help people with severe disabilities. We are aware that an increase in the fee of 250 kuna is not great, but at least a small step is in the right direction. The next item is an education that has suffered the enormous burden of this pandemic. In the state budget there must be room for the upgrade of the High School in Pazin as well as reconstruction, upgrade or energy reconstruction of schools in Bujam, Marcani, Svetvinčenti, Kanfanar, Fažani, Žminj or Vrsar and reconstruction of the Social Centre in Pula. We will also submit a series of amendments aimed at strengthening the health system of the Istrian County, which is investing in health homes, emergency medical care, and I am particularly stressing the amendment that requires the financing of reconstruction and re-purpose of the former administrative building of Pula General Hospital in dwellings for employees in the deficiting professions of the health profession. This investment would give 22 housing units to be used by doctors and other healthcare professionals. It's a project that can't be more current at this time of the virus's corona. We expect to recognize the need to invest in health homes in Labin and Pazin where realising planned projects would greatly help to raise health standards for the local population first, but also to guests who are very special during the summer months in Istria. We also believe that the Government must recognise the contribution that its citizens have made throughout their working lives in the economic and social development of the country, so today when they need help and care to finance, together with local and regional self-government, construction, reconstruction or energy reconstruction of the House for the Elderly in Pula and Rasa. I could continue on other valuable investment projects in port infrastructure in Poreč, Rapac, Trget, Rovinj, Pula or Umag, and I could also list investments in cultural facilities as well as other projects that expect co-financing through the state budget, but we will explain all these needs through the debate on amendments. It may seem a lot this way, but it's actually very small. Why? Because every year, I repeat, Istria pays a billion kuna to the state budget more than it returns. And because of the value of all the Istrian projects we're going to send through the amendments, it's still less than the amount that's coming back. The municipalities, cities, Istria County are ready to co-finance projects, but their realisation requires state support because our money does not stay in Istria, or because Croatia is not yet functionally or fiscally decentralised. And in the end, I have to say it's discouraging that in this way every year we have to ask the state to return the crumbs it took from us. All these projects could be implemented without any problem without the help of the state if Croatia was a decentralised state and it is sometimes ridiculous to hear investment in Istrian ipslon or investment in Pula General Hospital. The hospital in Pula costs 800 million kuna, and every year we pay a billion more, 30 years it's 30 hospitals. And I hope the time has come for the government to show ear for the projects in Istria and, in general, all the opposition amendments. We ask you to show that you learned something from your European friends and this year you demonstrate a higher level of management and political maturity than you did in earlier years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14423	The next club of representatives will be that of the Most Independent Lists, and time will be shared by respected representatives Petrov and Troscott. Obviously the opposite is, first, this colleague Troscott, and then a colleague of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14424	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and our dear citizens of the Republic who follow us through the screen. I would like to share today's debate in three main points, structured, and later on, my colleague Petrov will present his views on today's topic, which is the budget of the Republic of Croatia. The first point would be income tax which we already had opportunities to discuss. So, the tax reform proposed by the government itself is commendable, we have a certain tax reduction in income rates because, until this situation, so until this tax reduction, therefore with the tax system in which we are located, we have actually sent a message that, if the work was not valuable or the work was dimmed because with high income taxes, there would be less income or money left available for the consumption of our Croatian citizens, and then this would be additionally burdened with high and even higher VAT rates in Europe and our citizens would remain less and less money for consumption, and personal consumption would be the largest generator of every economy in the world's most developed countries. In this respect, in Croatia, citizens of the Republic of Croatia would pay relatively more for the same product than other residents within the EU countries. However, there is one thing that we would like to warn or one fearous and one even appeal to the Government to see if they have taken that into account at all because tax reform in the context of income tax will lead to a budget gap between 2 to 3 billion Croatian kunas and on the other hand if the government's spending is compared to the previous mandate, the Croatian Government spent 30% more money than an additional tax or additional budget gap. What our concern is that the hole will come from income tax and the hole is created by an even greater consumption compared to the last term of office to go back into debt, and then we will have our citizens re-indebted with non-intentional cash loans that are a great danger to our economy at the moment, so there will be additional credits on our cards, so the duties of the godfathers, in the family, to our friends, which means that our citizens of the Republic of Croatia will again have to be the Balthazars of Finance to survive. The second point I would like to touch here is even the question given the consumption of one of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, why we do rebalancing, if for example we have our concessionaries in Macele and the Istrian ipilon, in love with our homeland I do not make any difference in love with Zagora or Istria, but the ways in which concessionaries are treated are asked certain questions, which is why such benefits. And what are those? You don't have to pay charges for using, why, these are big holes in the budget, so someone has to fill it up. From the very beginning, the Croatian government has freely credited 3.5 billion Croatian kunas to the 2018 audit report, which is now increased to more than 4 billion kunas, which the Istrian ipilon does not have to pay back. Furthermore, subsidies to Macelj amounting to 570 million kuna on the audit report are not known on the basis of which criteria these subsidies are given. The question arises, therefore, why concessionaries are so favored, and these benefits are otherwise contrary to the European right to treat concessionaires. And the last point I would like to touch here is the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of crafts and our proposal to abolish mandatory memberships. Croatian entrepreneurs are not satisfied with the service HGK provides them and pay mandatory membership fee and our proposal is an Anglo-Saxon model. So, as a company that will, by its services to the data economy, find new markets, pay fees on what would help the company, so it will survive, not that Croatian entrepreneurs do not receive adequate services based on which they must then pay mandatory membership fees. And another question regarding HGK, why the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this is the question of the consumption of the Croatian government, is paying several million kunas annually when looking at the financial report which then HGK spends on flyers, on golded catalogues and on bags. Why? What's that for? Practically then indirectly the Croatian or Croatian Government through HGK finances leaflets, gold catalogues and stands and we believe that this is wrong and that it is not fair. And from this perspective, we support our entrepreneurs to free themselves of such parafiscal commitments and simply free them of liquidity or money for liquidity so that they can continue to invest, perhaps hire a new person, rather than spend money on mandatory memberships according to HGK and HOK which do not provide them with a service that they can produce themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14425	Thank you. The Honorable representative Petrov will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14426	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. If I have to talk seriously about this budget, then I'll say he's a level three problem. The first level is that I don't see a plan or strategy in it. The second is that it's not current. The third is that some data inside are deliberately pre-immensionized, some deliberately diminish. What I see as a problem is all this seriousness here that we are discussing today, given that the proposal that came to us on the bench is not current. It's not up to that date, I don't know if the Prime Minister likes French... Anyway, but the proposal you have doesn't include a billion and 200 million kunas the government negotiated with the unions last week. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're discussing a draft budget that we already, which we now know is not worth it. The second thing is not realistic because, and it can be discussed, the government mentions that it will increase 5 billion kunas from the European Funds next year, and the European Commission has announced for a month that it will not come from the resistance mechanism and give these additional funds next year. And in addition, since the National Development Strategy is not over, so neither are the plans under the National Development Strategy, that neither the money will be able to withdraw from the new financial framework next year. In addition, the question of the verification of financial resources that is kept silent, which is the last step after the withdrawal of funds, and about it is kept silent, as much as we will actually approve, and as much as we will have to pay out of our pocket, we mention that we will withdraw 5 billion kuna additionally from this year is quite brave. But, well, it was never missing from your side of the promise. What's lucky about this whole covid crisis fortunately covid has done that there are no promises of such an unreal type we'll open 180,000 jobs, come on you're a little in better gabarites than before. But of all things, and when I remove this to discuss a budget that is not current, which we now know is not current, which we know that certain figures are pre-named, but we can discuss. What worries me is that the budget, the main, strategic document has no strategy because it was made in a way, I can understand the whole specific situation at the moment because of the covid epidemic, but in this document you should see a strategy plan for the next 5-10. You can't see that in this. And just please don't mention the National Development Strategy until 2030 because what's done, the only thing you can see is what's colossal Epic Fail and best pretend that there's no way that 32 million kunas better go back to the state budget. It's been paid 850,000 kuna, and I will personally ask you to give every account you've spent in that 32 million kuna for a dead letter. on paper. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14427	Next, the next Club of Representatives will be the National Minorities, and time will be shared by the respected vice president of this house and MP Furio Radin and respected representative Bilek. First of all, Honorable Representative Furio Radin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14428	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Troscott, I feel free to add one real thing to what you said in Ipsion that we're paying at 30. And the tunnel we only paid for, which we built with self-delivery in the old days and which we paid once before, so I'm just going to put a little more salt on what you said. No one can dispute that this budget is being adopted under specific circumstances, and let us hope that we will stop only at this term "specific" is that although it is seriously threatening, the situation threatens to become extraordinary and in a health sense and consequently is that, as a result, in an economic sense. Because among the various functions that each state budget has, I will only mention them annually, accountingly, in itself is understandable, guaranteed, to guarantee, of course, the citizens that they will have their needs met in the way they are defined by the budget, the judicial one, that it will all be, that these money that will be spent will be legal and ultimately economically or economically, which is also understandable in itself and which should be achieved a certain balance in a certain, in that year in a single society. Of all these values, however, it is dominant in the 5th or 1st, I would say, not in this budget alone, but in all budgets 1. The political character of the budget. If the budget is growing at a time of uncertainty, it is obvious that it also has a political-motivation function that cannot be aware of the interpretation, is it typical that there are a variety of populists, that we must satisfy various appetites, that there are always some choices, and that we have to create a certain public opinion, that there must be a variety of political and political-financial balances, that we must, in fact, have to respond to the EU that is holding back, according to some of our growth, and I don't think so. Although all of this is to a certain extent and true, but I prefer to stress, especially at a time when we are actually slaves to a situation where we are not yet successful, not only to solve but to define to the end neither from a health point of view nor from an economic point of view, I want to stress exactly that motivational function of the state budget. If we do not look positively at the immediate future, to achieve development, or at least to maintain financial and economic balance, we will not actually achieve anything. This policy has a great responsibility, depending on whether citizens will view it with a certain, certain necessary optimism over the next period. In fact, we are in a situation where and in a situation where psychological reasons are also almost as important as economics. That is why I do not have to join my colleagues from the IDS, it is not necessary to reject the opposition proposals and on the contrary, the opposition should be understood that some of the government's moves are justified and necessary. It's never supposed to be like this in a moment like this. There's no cooperation. Therefore, in.../incomprehensible/... that is why the parliamentary representatives of the national minorities supported the rebalancing and will support this budget. We started our story in a situation that was actually very problematic and where, we started very low and that's why the increases that we have now, and we have increases in this budget, the increases that we have, in fact, need.../incomprehensible/... should be seen as some kind of establishing a new system of functioning of national minorities. And finally, before I give my word to Mr. Bilek, who's going to talk about some.../incomprehensible/... some specific figures, I'm going to mention only that I was finishing my speech about, the last time we were actually talking about the budget with, with the school in Buja, I said, the school in Buja, in Buja, is no longer in the budget, so it wasn't even a few weeks ago, when we talked about, when we talked about the budget, now she's back in the budget. I controlled, the items are, the items are appropriate, so now we have the exact items and we can be satisfied at least from that point of view and have responded to our appeal, to my appeal when we talked about rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14429	The Honorable Representative Bilek will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14430	Thank you very much. Here's the esteemed vice president of HS, the esteemed president of the Ministry of Finance, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, as we all know, today we are discussing the most important document that we have in the course of a parliamentary year, and we need to look at this document in the context of the really new challenges that are ahead of us, which are very much defined by this uncertainty about the further development of the situation, particularly related to this coronary pandemic. On the other hand, as is evident in this draft budget, that way of managing finances, but also EU membership will help us to amortise the stress caused by this pandemic and thus are allocated to Croatia, more than 23 billion euros, or more than 173 billion kuna for the next period which budgetary and extra- budget users have at their disposal for development strategic and reform projects, and which, in addition to sustainable public finances, we hope, will also make it possible for the rapid recovery of the economy. In the past term, the government has stressed the need and need for consolidation of public finances, in order, among other things, to be ready for a timely response at the time of the possible economic and economic crisis. Public finances have welcomed the start of this crisis in a solid state, so that at the very beginning, they could go with measures to help the economy, to preserve jobs, to write down and release taxes where here and now follow the next round that is just tied up in that part, but above all on the economic plan to preserve jobs, production and economy. Unfortunately, our economy is still largely dependent on imports, and on this side it is essential to increase self-sufficiency in all possible segments, especially in agricultural production or in food production. We welcome, above all, the provision of funds to co-finance eu projects so that our units of local self-government, municipalities, cities, as well as counties can make better and better use of the funds available to them from the EU in the future. I must point out that the budget also provides funds for many capital projects including the project to continue the construction of the fast road Farkaševac-Bjelovar, the reconstruction of the state road DC5 through the Grubišna polje-Končanica, as well as the final construction of the circular road in the DALIT business zone in Daruvar, but also many other road, railway and maritime infrastructure projects. I would also like to mention, however, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme to support areas of populated national minorities through the Ministry of Agriculture, Economics, as well as the Ministry of Regional Development through which the quality of life of all citizens living in the area or in those areas is improved, for example. Punovci, Herzegovca, Končanice, Dežanovac, Ilock, Grubiške polje, etc. Although largely for the sake of covid, unfortunately we have failed to complete the operational programmes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for national minorities for the past period 2016-2020. I am pleased that some of the funds are secured in this budget and I believe that in the operational programmes for national minorities we will implement in the future in a greater extent. And of course, the National Minority Club will support the draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14431	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14432	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd just like to take a little bit off topic, so I'd like to ask Mr. Bukarica and Mr. Vice President Reiner one thing, you don't need to answer me now, but keep in mind, when we apply for the debate, we don't have a uniform rule. So someone throws the application on the laptop so it's the first one, and who knows who threw it, and someone who's signing up here. I don't have a problem with that way just so we know what to laugh about. ... It must be, then this order that was not fair. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It was supposed to be the first Mr. Grmoy, the second me because the rest of them threw their applications on the laptop. ... and last week, and today we've confirmed the agenda. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, not all right. Okay. So they all signed up in person. All right. Croatia has as all the countries of the inner sea. The inner sea is for those who do not know the sea from the last hill of the island, the peninsula to the coast. Croatia has a very large internal sea because it has a very divorced coast and 1185 islands, islands and cliffs. Then we have a territorial sea, which is 12 nautical miles, 20 km for those who don't know what the nautical mile is 1852 meters, so 12 nautical miles from the last point of shore, cliffs, islands, islands and Croatia also has this belt that is very large thanks to the great sea. Now, between our territorial sea and Italian, we have international waters. In the middle of international waters goes the line of demarcation, but today, these days, the Italian Parliament will adopt a decision on an exclusive economic belt where there is the exclusive nature of fishing and the exploitation of mineral resources by Italy. Are you following me now? Croatia has an ecological and fishing belt that it has declared, but has not declared it EU member states. The Minister said that we have protected our sea and fishing, we have, but we are not Italians because she does not know that Italy is in the EU. So these days, the Italians in their half of international waters, I don't know if you're going to find a little complicated colleagues and colleagues in their half of international waters to declare an exclusive economic belt, and we Croats, since we're generous, we're going to let them continue to hunt fish in our half of international waters. I can't hear a fellow Thunderbolt. So we have declared it, but for all the countries of the world except for EU members. Well we're here to say smart country we have smart politics, very smart. Since I'm going to give my colleague Sacic half the time I'm just going to say one more thing here, I'm pleased to have Mr. Minister here. I'm always stressing here, and the minister knows, you're not responsible for everything either, but you're the most responsible or the Prime Minister and you and we have a situation in Croatia today as if you have an average Croatian family who looks at their standards so he says okay, so we don't have a car and we don't have one on the street of 30 families or 27 families, so we don't have any TVs, but we don't have any ok, but we don't even go in torn shoes alone, okay, yeah they have some Bulgarians there, but they even go with one shoe of them we're better than something. Now there is Croatia about and we are at the beginning of the column, and that fat on the beginning of the column and per GDP per capita and per public consumption per capita, and these are the things that we need to highlight. I'm sorry about that, and I'll say it's not your fault, but you're the most guilty. Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14433	Thank you, I have now learned that on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, a colleague will speak about the budget, I guess, because this was not about the budget, absolutely nothing, but we will hear from fellow Sačić about the budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14434	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Vice-President, ministers, associates, so here I had a need to point to one in my opinion not a good condition regarding the financing of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. For more than 2 months, we have here on the table a report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office and it was very useful and there could be found who it is so far, I suppose you have all read, extremely good data on their work, among other things in the item State's Attorney's Office representing the Republic of Croatia by which the Constitution and the laws were authorised, in front of international bodies, international arbitration, international courts, other institutions and institutions, has spent 2019 annually, and these trends have been almost standardized in '17, '18, etc., we assume in the '20s more than 82 million kuna. We note that this year, the department for the State Attorney's Office for General Labour, which is held by the State's Attorney General and for these representations and before the Constitutional Court, the High Commercial, Administrative, Civilian in Croatia and outside Croatia, and for the education of trainees, the organisation of different forms of seminars, etc., all that they have to worry about are provided with these 2019. 103 million kuna. So more than 80 fat 80% goes away the money we give them at the extremely high cost of representing the Republic of Croatia before international arbitration. At present, 12 of them are active, these international arbitrations. And in this 2020, I think now at the end of the year, or 2021, there will be results. The value of disputes in these international arbitrations is passed by a conservative method of 6.5 billion kuna. Now, dear ministers and respected, forgive me for this expression, dear, this is how we will now explain that this year's total DORH was actually foreseen for 2021 by 69 million kuna in total for their work for 2021 and for the international representation of the Republic of Croatia in front of 44 million kuna. So there's obviously one, one discrepancy, and it'll probably have to come to this or the rebalancing, etc., but what to get into when you already know that you're assigned, the given variables are such that simply whatever our, our, our, our, our crisis and Covid crisis and the earthquake and corruption and poverty are affected, we have to act and engage exceptional law firms that really need to protect interests. In these 6 billion are all the hands of these lawyers, it does not mean that we have to lose all 6 billion of them, but it is happening that Gavrilović we have given almost a billion kuna, and we all thought in Croatia that this is a done deal that will not pay any damage, the banks of all the banks in Croatia have joined themselves against the interests of the citizens of Croatia, calling for a contract on the protection of foreign investors, investments and we have very good previous governments protected the citizens from lawlessness, the law of the CNB and passed the law on to the Swiss, the conversion of the EUR and all that is good, the things that work, but all these banks have joined together, sued us, and this time they are asking us from Croatia for 5 billion kuna damages. That you very well, Mr. Minister, know this arbitration is going on, she's going to mean the last deadline is somewhere in these months, the two will rule that I don't know if it's.../incomprehensible/... or which one, which one exactly is being led. Now, I wanted to draw attention to you in this way to accept these facts and to simply relieve these opportunities completely and to increase their budget. And otherwise, you're our hardworking protectors in.../incomprehensible/... The Croatian State's Attorney's Office will have no bread, no gasoline, even though they drive the old Tempre 20 years old. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14435	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club, the respected representative Damir Bakic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, respected co-workers from the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, at first I will point out once again that it is unacceptable to discuss the budget within such short notice. It is particularly unacceptable to discuss, at the same time, the budget rebalancing for this year and the budget for the following year in such short terms. Especially since the draft budget for next year is actually referred not to this net adopted rebalancing but to the one from May which, of course, makes it impossible or at least very difficult to monitor and analyse. Finally, it is unacceptable for us to have the budget delivered again and again and again at this time today in an unsearchable format. The document we are discussing should be delivered not only in search format but also to level four. The actual debate on the budget should be encouraged not only in parliament but also in the public. In this way and in this format, the actual debate is not only not encouraging but actually making it difficult. Now about the metrics. I would start by asking explicitly both Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric whether the budget really provides the amount, the money, the money needed to increase the basics of 4% of the salaries of all state and public officials? The government has recently confirmed that it's behind this obligation, but we'd like confirmation of that and of this place and this opportunity. We would also like to confirm whether money is provided for the sectoral additions that belong to it? Furthermore, regardless of budget orientation, one question is constantly present, how effectively, how responsible do we spend public money? The expenditure side of the budget is about 158 billion kuna. Of that, a little over 20 billion, so more than eight percent of the expenditure on services. Some of these services are necessary and very expensive, for example the formation and management of oil supplies. Some of these services are unfortunately paying the price of previous failures, so of course they are. Financial advice in INA-MOL. But we believe that many of these services are actually too high, that they are actually the fruit of our non-organization, non-compliance, non-coordination of work in ministries and other institutions. Because, for example, each ministry, each budget user has the activity of administration and management and within that activity each so-called budget user and each ministry has the cost of services. What kind of services are these? Because I really need them? And they, therefore, only these administrative services cost us more than 600 million kuna. For example. in the Ministry of Economy and Justice, excuse me, the sustainable development economy of 26 million, at the Ministry of Agriculture 33 million, at the Ministry of Justice and Administration as much as 47, at the Ministry of Defence, for example. These services cost more than 10 million. What kind of services are they really about? Because, for example, in the Ministry of Defence and Health Care and Psychological Assistance and Employment and Defence Associations, these are all activities for which money is reserved separately and which, within these activities, have specifically foreseen expenditure money for services. So, what are these services that the U.S. Department of Defense needs? What kind of jobs are worth 10 million kuna taxpayers that must be done just by ordering outside servers? A new item appears in the finance ministry this year, in fact, is a new contribution to the EU. Our budget envisions paying the EU budget of 121 million kuna on the basis of unrecycled plastic packaging waste. And next year, the same amount is predicted. Do we have any plan on that? These and our future, our future contributions on this basis to some, some actions that perhaps, some actions that we may not have taken or may depend on some of the actions that we need to take, some indicators or results? What have the government, ministries and governments done in general about this? And that's what we'd like to know. Another new item in the budget, also on the finance ministry. This is an investment in the Three Sea Initiative Investment Fund of 15 million kuna. What's that and why? We don't share government enthusiasm over this initiative, and even less about this Investment Fund. Recently after the summit, the prime minister said Croatia is ready to invest in the Investment Fund up to EUR 20 million, but via the HBOR. What does it mean, then, only EUR 2 million here in this budget position? Here it looks more like, like, a message than, like, a real investment move. Furthermore, under the Ministry of Finance again the budget proposes further increases in the separation for the Catholic Church. It is an activity that monitors the International Agreement of the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia, known as the Vatican Treaties. The 2021 budget provides for this need a expenditure of approximately 326 million kuna. That's 11% more than this year and even 4% more than the 2021 plan. That only 4% more than plan actually means 12 million kunas more, that's a lot of money. We'd like to know or find out an explanation of the increase and such an important increase in this enormous expenditure anyway. We cannot, on the other hand, mention the reduction of important items in the Ministry of Culture and Media. The funding of the visual activity programme has been reduced by almost 15%. Theatre and musical stage activities programmes for more than 11%. Library publishing, innovative and artistic practices, international cultural cooperation, the financing of all these activities has been reduced. With such reductions, we cannot agree and will therefore propose appropriate amendments. We welcome the increase in the budget of the Ombudsman for children, but on the other hand we cannot agree with the reduction in the budget of the Ombudsman for gender equality. And finally, every budget is a message, every item in the budget is a message for itself, and that is why, and in this sense not only in monetary terms, the amendments that we are going to propose are important to us because with these amendments, we will advocate to improve the quality of life of all our citizens, for health rights, for education rights, for children's rights, for women's rights, for minority rights of all minorities in any key, for the protection of all those who need special protection and support. We will not be able to accept the proposal for this budget, we will not be able to support this proposal unless our key amendments are accepted, in which we will seek the provision of free meals in schools for all students, the introduction of civic education as a separate subject in all schools, the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, the energy and efficient renewal, the launch of a housing programme for public rent, and throughout this period by strengthening the competent authorities and institutions for the vigorous and unconditional fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14437	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14438	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear fellow mayor, state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a budget for 2021 with projections for 2022, 2023, together with the budget users and the Law on the implementation of the state budget for this current year. Of course, the HDZ Club supports this proposal and this kind of budget proposal, and I would just like to remind my colleagues that every year in all budgets and there have always been certain lawsuits, the judicial processes that have taken place, which have been resolved, ended or not, and there have always been ways and the Ministry of Finance and every budgetary user has to take care of it, and if certain funds have been lost then it has been necessary to find and find a way to pay it off. So life is never linear, so neither is this budget and it happens in the current time. When we talk about our standard of perception whether we can do better, we can always do better, but we couldn't agree with those colleagues who say they're walking in one shoe or in a torn shoe. I think our standard is actually much better than how it wants to be introduced to the public. So, after the 2020 fall, which we expect to be 8% in 2021, GDP growth of 5% is expected, and this will follow in 2022 of 3.4 and 3.1 in 2023, respectively. This is an exceptional situation where it is very ungrateful and very difficult to project, but exactly what we have been saying is the advantage of just EU membership gives us certain positive and optimistic forecasts when we can see the whole of how it happens in the EU as well. The revenue side of the budget is determined by the expected recovery of economic activity and certainly of great importance in that they have the resources of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, and the one that will take place in 2021-2027, with the fact that we still have to say that we have that N+3 model, so we can withdraw funds in a three-year period after the financial framework expires. It is also very important that the new EU instrument of the New Generation, which helps in the liquidity of the economy, is also to preserve and support and create jobs and strengthen economic recovery and resilience. That is why 6 billion grants are foreseen by the end of 2026 and 3.6 billion euros in loans. This will certainly enable public finances to recover rapidly to the economy regardless of what is happening now with the two Member States that are slowing it down, and I believe that a compromise will be found because all members are waiting for this very positive solution to these and opening and the opportunities that will help everyone to get out of this crisis. The expenditure side of the budget aims to carry out activities for the purpose of recovery, strengthening competitiveness and resilience of the economy. For the recovery of the damage caused by an earthquake in 2021, significant funds are provided for both from the National and Solidarity Fund. This is what all of this tells us, in fact, that fiscal movements will lead to our lack of general budget being around 2.9% in 2021, and 2.1 in 2022 and 2023, according to the ESA methodology. 1.6% of GDP. What should also be noted when we talk about the income itself, we had in the first reading all those changes that are happening to tax discharges, and in this context it is important to say that it is very important to reduce the profit tax rate for entrepreneurs below, i.e. up to 7 and a half million kuna. So to 10% from 12% and also to reduce the income tax rate to 30 and 20%, respectively. It is also important to note the elimination of VAT exemption when importing small-value goods. What should be said is that the total revenues are planned for 147.3 billion kuna compared to 2022 when they increased by some 5 billion and 2023 to 152.9 billion kuna. In terms of expenditure, we have to say that they are planned at 157.9 billion kuna and that is about 10.6 billion more than the state budget for 2020. In particular, it should be pointed out that 3.3 billion relate to the increase in expenditure financed from general income and income and contributions, and 7.3 billion kuna refers to an increase in expenditure which does not affect the outcome of the general government budget, so that it should be pointed out that the compensation measures of local and regional (regional) government units around one billion and a half kuna are still in place, so that we have an increase in EU budget contribution of 1.1 billion. Costs for employees where we know that this is the way to respect the provisions of collective agreements that were previously concluded, so that's about a billion kuna. Also, pensions and pension income, interest, social assistance and benefits, guarantee reserves and additional parental leave, and also co-financing projects at local and regional level. I would also like to highlight what is happening in the final proposal for a law on the implementation of the state budget. So that's actually the normative part that regulates all relations and actions in the state budget. So it is very important that there are 5.2 billion kunas in terms of the Solidarity Fund and the way it will be deployed. It is also a very important provision that has already been used in this previous one, and these are previously mentioned unambiguous loans for local self-government units and for the Health Insurance Office. And it is important that this institute can be used, therefore, in the next period in 2021. It is also important to note that the consequences of a possible epidemic that will arise in the future and there is a certain flexibility available by means, and it is also important to say that the new financial guarantees for extra budget users are 2.8 billion out of the total of 5 and a half billion kuna. And in this way it is actually possible to take and the way in which the procedure and conditions of granting these guarantees are going to be. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this draft budget and enforcement law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14439	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP, and time will be shared by respected representatives Grbin and Lalovac. First of all, the respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, there is uncertainty that greatly affects the adoption of the 2021 budget. We are facing a major health crisis, and we are also facing a kind of political crisis at EU level where two Member States are threatening to block the adoption of the budget for the period from 2021 to 2027. And of course, we can understand that because of this, we can understand that perhaps what we say about what the Croatian Parliament and MPs raise their hands for, and should be the 2021 budget, for 2021 can be quickly changed. We can understand that, but for something else we can't. And this is the fact that despite these crises, despite the serious challenges that the Republic of Croatia must face during the period ahead of us, we are trying to solve the same problems in the same way, regardless of how it has never produced any results so far. Dear colleagues and colleagues primarily from HDZ, this budget is a continuous follow-up and a continuous pattern of maintenance of the statue qo. We're still constantly saying that we want something done, and we're actually doing everything to make sure nothing changes. I'll give you just one example that best paints it. In his opening statement, the Prime Minister said that certain separations and mentioning it are increasing health care. But that's not true. In the rebalanced 2020 budget, nearly 15.2 billion kuna has been planned for health care, this budget for the year 2021 amounts to 14 billion kuna, more than billions of kunas, and why, again, there are no funds for paying the debts that exist. Debts on wholesale drugs, debts on overtime healthcare workers. How do we solve them? How? There's no answer to that? I have asked the Prime Minister to guarantee the stability of the health system, to ensure that the drugs do not come to our hospitals again, but he cannot guarantee it, and he cannot guarantee it because the money needed to avoid such a situation is simply not foreseen. And you colleagues and colleagues will, first of all, raise your hand for that because that's not a problem for you. However, for all of us, it is a big problem for all of us, because we know that we can't get drugs again like we couldn't get cancer patients in Pula, Split, Čakovec, Varazdin, etc., all over Croatia. And why is that? Because the government just didn't plan the commitment she knew was there. And that's one of the basic problems of this budget and we're doing it again. There's no means for everything we know we're gonna have to pay. And of course we can't support that. But what's the funds for? It has the means to co-finance local self-government units due to a hole that will result in changes in income tax. I would like to remind you, the finance minister said last week that cutting the income tax from the highest rate from 36% to 30% will feel 7,000 citizens of this country. 7,000 of those who receive the highest salary in Croatia, therefore there will be a huge hole in the budgets of units of local self-government weighs a billion and more kunas which we will have to compensate with this budget, and who will pay this hole, all of them, regardless of whether they are paid 2, 3, 5 or 10,000 kuna or pensions, all those who buy and pay VAT will pay this hole that was created to make 7,000 of those with the highest salaries taxed. Well, that's not fair for colleagues and colleagues, and that's this budget. A budget that doesn't solve the problems that the state has, which we know we're here, but a budget that generates new ones at the same time. In the SDP, we cannot accept such a budget, and a colleague of Lalovac will continue to explain the additional reasons why this is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14441	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Lalovec will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14442	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Secretary of State recently came out of the 20th strategy, today we look at the budget and we see that there are not many links between the 20th strategy and the budget itself. One of the main problems of the Croatian economy or Croatian society in this strategy, I read the strategy given by the Government, I say the biggest backdrop of the Croatian economy due to the low level of productivity of the total production factors. What else does that mean? So the total production factors created by the companies in Croatia grew by 0.8% while European countries, such as Slovakia, Romania grew from 3.5% to 5%, and therefore we have a problem that we can achieve as far as we can is 3% economic growth and the strategy itself says that in 2030, we will reach Slovenia but Slovenia from 2019. And that's the problem. That's the problem because we said that in the next 10 years we're going to grow at 3%. Why do we only grow at 3%? The government identified itself because we have a very low productivity rate, productivity of capital and labour, and the overall productivity factor, and again, the government itself states why, because we have too much and the share of public enterprises over 1,100 companies owned that are technologically still unable to carry certain economic activities and what is most important even the government in the document lists too many units of local self-government. So all the government correctly detected in its 2030 strategy, but all the things we actually heard in the strategy are not in the budget. And that is why we hope that the following budgets will certainly make sure that what is written in the strategy is applied in the budget as well. What I have actually said in the opening and said is very important to say that in 2008 Croatia would not have experienced the crisis and the six-year recession that Croatia had had in the EU. And that is why it is good that today when we talk in this part of the crisis that we are not talking about the IMF is that we are outside the EU the only source of financing Croatia would be the IMF, and we know that the IMF is doing, just cutting and solving them, the social problems don't even speak. And that's good because now we're on an equal market, we can use EU funds, and that's why I'm here and I suggested since already over 25% of the budget actually applies to EU funds, we have an old multi-annual framework, we have a new framework, we have a solidarity fund to make one addition, not just in, just one line to make one addition of 10, 15 pages of a document that would go along with the budget to show all the positive effects and resolution, and to solve the crisis and when these crises happen today. And that is why it is good that even when we enter the European Course Mechanism and let's be completely realistic, the rating agency did not give us because we currently have good finances but because they do, Croatia has a perspective of using EU funds and entering the European Course Mechanism where we will solve a huge part of the exchange rate that is in Croatia around 500 billion kuna is related to EURo, credit and various, diverse assets. So that means we don't have stability and inflows from the EU would have a huge exchange rate mechanism and that's why Moody's... It is a political decision and it is a good decision to get into the European as soon as possible, the European Course Mechanism will thus, we have shown and stabilised the bond price, we have not allowed the speculators on the market to trade bonds when this is a crisis and these are the benefits, these are the benefits of our membership. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I asked the government to make it even stronger, to show it is, in fact, it's real and it's a fact and it's something that in the future and in these discussions I think it's going to be a much better quality and the relationship of the debate here in the assembly if we have such information here. However, please apply this part of what you wrote in the strategy, we will support you, these are good things. And why can't we, we have to have higher rates of growth than 3%, and we can't have them because the government itself well detected that we have poor productivity. From the EU, we cannot just use something to pave the way for something, that something, in order to actually create certain construction works, is just telling us that we have a low competitiveness of Croatian companies and the only source of funding at this time of crisis is the EU. The banks have completely closed the financing of the Croatian economy and are not in the EU, so we would have no interest in any responsibility. We have 25 billion now, even though the banking sector has stopped financing the economy. These are the benefits and that we have remained only in the financial sector to ourselves, and for us, and these are good things, and that's the only source of liquidity now for the economy, and that's why you need to defend it more strongly and communicate more strongly, is that these are the benefits that we expect here, whatever the problems are, Whatever the problems. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14443	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of the SDSS and on behalf of which will speak respected representative Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14444	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Assembly, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I admit it's a little hard to speak behind the former minister and expert of this area, but here I am going to dare at least in a section relating to the question of minorities, especially the minority I represent. However, it is not noteworthy that the planned revenues amounting to 147 billion kuna, expenditures of 157 billion kuna, and thus for 2021 are projected to be less than 10.7 billion kuna or 2.75% of GDP. In 2022, the deficit is projected, a deficit in the state budget is projected at 7.3 billion kuna, while a deficit of 4.2 billion kuna is expected in 2023. So this is something that we sincerely hope for and that is based on projections and that has arisen. The revenue side of the budget in the projection period was determined by the expected recovery of economic activity taking into account the effects of the announced tax changes under the tax and profit system, in fact the income tax and income tax, and that is something we expect. A significant impact on the revenue of the budget will have the withdrawal of funds from the EU Funds, primarily from the current multi-annual financial framework 2014-2020, as well as forecasts for new funding from the Multi-annual Financial Framework '21-'27, and from the new EU New Generation instrument aimed at helping the liquidity economy to preserve and support job creation, and to strengthen economic recovery and resilience through development, strategic, reform projects for which nearly €6 billion of grants are foreseen by 2026. and EUR 3.6 billion in loans. The expenditure party shall focus on the implementation of activities to recover and strengthen the competitiveness and resilience of the economy by ensuring the application of the protection of all layers of the population. In order to ensure the fiscal sustainability of local communities, additional allocations are also provided for to assist local and regional self-government units as a result of the planned changes in the income tax system of 1.5 billion kuna. As my colleague Simpraga recently mentioned, municipalities in assisted areas have a reduction in income tax revenue from 10 and even up to 25%, which is a lot compared to their budgets and which is recognised through the compensation measures of JLS in order to ensure that municipalities, cities and counties are without significant loss of revenue in their budgets. It is good to see that the covid measures which have a significant impact on the results of the general government budget in '21. They plan largely from EU funds, as I said 2.1 billion kuna, while sources affecting the result of the general government budget are planned to amount to 100 million kuna. The state budget for the period '21, with projections until '23. The planned way is to keep control of the expenditure side of the budget until the effects of the covid crisis are fully learned, while continuing to dissipate the economy through income tax and profit tax cuts. I'm glad to see that the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for '21. with projections in '22. and '23. the planned continuation of good practice so far in the form of a programme of assistance in the work of the OPGs, which strengthens rural environments, whose strength and importance is rarely ignored. It is important that the agricultural portfolio gets these additional 270 million kunas, of which 85 million kuna is related to rural development measures, 107 million kunas for support for beef, fisheries and sugar beet producers and 61 and a half million kuna for debts and judgments for which Minister Maric explained where they came from. They also positively assess the increase in funding for infrastructure improvement programmes in areas populated by national minorities, as well as programmes to encourage entrepreneurship and crafts in areas that have been permanently inhabited by national minorities who have proved to be excellent and crucial in recent years, and have become almost guaranteed to remain in the mentioned areas. We note and hope that the funds allocated to entrepreneurs and craftsmen in the area of populated members of national minorities in the Ministry of Economy, which were not spent as planned in 2020, will increase the budget for next year. I recently talked about the problem of resolving the issue of former tenant rights holders, and I will now mention that the funds of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing are still insufficient for this purpose, and should be increased in order to finally resolve this long-term issue. The funds made available to the Agency for Legal Traffic and Real Estate Purchase at the expense of the Republic of Croatia are increased from year to year, which is certainly commendable. I am particularly emphasising the fact that it is planning to allocate more resources to encourage the education of national minorities, but I still think it would be good to increase the funds for preschool education for children members of national minorities. Although the coronary pandemic of the virus during 2020 has led to significant negative socio-economic consequences, the government of the Republic of Croatia has used the established fiscal space from previous years for faster and stronger fiscal support to maintain employment and overall economic activity. All in all, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this Budget Proposal for 2021 with projections for 2022, 2023.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14445	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS and independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14446	Honored chairman, respected ministers with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the most important document we bring in during the parliamentary year. We need to look at this document in the context of the new challenges ahead, which are to a great extent defined by the uncertainty over the further development of the situation related to the pandemic of the coronary virus. The fundamental objective to pursue is sustainability and stability of public finances, while preserving the level of social rights achieved. It is this budget that represents a balance between the objectives mentioned, because it is realistic, life-long, sustainable and socially sensitive to the most vulnerable groups of society, according to its characteristics. For the first time, we are facing the consequences of a global economic crisis which is not subject to the cutting of the rights of the most vulnerable groups, sending a clear message of social solidarity to the entire Croatian public, which is being addressed by our Government. This change has also led to a global shift in the choice of instruments that individual governments have in the face of the consequences of the covid crisis. In order to avoid a decline in the standard of living and purchasing power of consumers, and the slowdown of the economic flows of the countries took responsibility for ensuring the necessary resources all in order to preserve the economy, jobs and protect all layers of society. In addition to this initiative, the state says encouraging data about how the Republic of Croatia has been raised and credit ratings. The indicator of this is the right direction in the management of public finances, but also the result of serious preparations for the entry into the euro zone that are recognised by international credit and financial institutions, stronger integration of the Republic of Croatia into European financial mechanisms and flows should serve as a guarantee for easier overcoming the existing crisis, maintaining social stability, and at the same time strengthening investment cycles. EU membership has helped us to better amortise the stress caused by the covid epidemic, and we believe that the Croatian government should carry out even more decisive and courageous reform procedures, but also provide logistics for large infrastructure projects that can give significant investment momentum to the Croatian economy. It is also necessary to give stronger support to domestic entrepreneurs when applying for European funds, while at the same time empowering domestic institutions whose task should be to inform entrepreneurs and connect them with specific European funds. This should represent an additional infusion into the circulation of the Croatian economy. And next to all the above mentioned club of the Croatian People's Party – liberal Democrats and Independent Representatives will support the draft budget for 2021 with projections for 2022 and 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14447	The next Club of Representatives is the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Vucilović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14448	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The macroeconomic framework on which this budget is based plans for a 5% GDP growth. We haven't had that growth rate since Eve Sanader. We all know how it ended. The current Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is angry when we say that Croatia is growing slower than other transition countries, and when we fall, it is twice as much. In the third quarter, Poland recorded a 1.6% decline as well as Lithuania. The EU average is 4.3%. Croatia will not be in those figures. The numbers are exact. The numbers don't lie, they don't cheat whether someone likes it or not. And when we entered the transition process, we were the second economy in power among the transition countries. Where are we today? At the beginning of Bulgaria. These macroeconomic projections, based on next year's budget, were made after the tourist season. They predict the placing of an epidemic under control, normalisation of economic activities, but on the structure of an economy based on tourism as the main economic branch. The main backbone of our GDP is still personal consumption. There is no here in this budget in the announcement of vertical measures, industrial policies, regional policies that would trigger our economy's structure towards re-industrialisation of the re-launching of production. Realistically speaking, if we look at everything I've said so far, this budget is unrealistic. She is aware of this and our government, including Minister Maric, and in one of the presentations from October, says: "It is important to note that macroeconomic projections depend largely on the development of the Covid-19 situation given the deterioration of the situation. Comparing with the period when these were made, there is a significant risk of achieving a baseline scenario which would negatively affect the revenues of the state budget and potentially create a need for additional measures towards the economy in relation to the planned." finished quote. I see the minister confirms that I quote well, I quote well. So we need effective mechanisms to act quickly and in a timely manner in the event of inevitable deviations. Why do I say inevitable? There is too much uncertainty in the environment and we can hardly expect that next year we will return to exports and in all the other elements of this budget on the revenue side as indicated here. The budget for next year is foreign aid, which is largely more than a total contribution to pension insurance from the European Union funds. They amount to 24.7 billion and that is the amount we need to get from the European Union. It might not be a bad idea if we had Minister Tramišak here, because of her ministry and the withdrawal of those funds depends, in a good way, on the budget for next year. The income from the profit tax in this budget is up 25%, and last week we heard that the new law is one large part of our entrepreneurs through the fifth round of tax reform will have a reduction, so we don't know what this is based on. It also contributes to pension insurance growth compared to this year 16%. Perhaps it is on this increase in public sector wages because there are no new investments in the private sector that would create new jobs and, let's say, affect that. Material expenditures are also growing, and 20%, mostly due to the cost of services. The subsidies are reduced compared to 2020, which is logical, but in relation to 2019, they are growing precisely in the segment of subsidies to companies, cooperatives, farmers and craftsmen from the EU. Water supply is an item that records an extremely significant growth next year of 78%, then 67% in 2022, and 29% in 2023 when these funds amount to 3.6 billion kuna. If it is judged by these figures, then much of Croatia is still without water and sewerage. There are other illogicalities. I'll only list some. Namely, the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities has a budget of 108 million kuna, which is 54% more than 2020, and for example, for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, 83 million kuna is foreseen with a tendency to cut funds in the coming years. For a country that has so many diaspora for us in the Homeland Movement, it's unacceptable. The funds for national parks and nature parks are constantly moving around around 780 million kuna. We all know that soon we will have another new park, the nature park Dinara, which means that the resources for that nature park are not intended or will not be enough. Then funds were provided for the former president's office, although she made it very clear that she did not need the office. But it's supposed to be for some projects she started. It would also be nice to see the benefits of these projects. Then there is a new tax on non-refundable plastics touched by counterpart Bakic. That's where 121 million kunas are scheduled. Calculating at 800 euros per tonne. A country like Croatia that recycles only 20% of plastics hardly has only 20,000 tons of such plastic. So I watched a little bit, so I found one piece of the then Ministry of Energy Environmental Protection of 2015, the share of plastics, in unclassified municipal waste, was 23% or 300,000 tonnes. So now multiply 800 euros that's a significantly higher amount than these 121 million kunas. So who knows how many more of those items there are, my colleague Sacic mentioned the verdicts, we have these taxes here, it could all have a significant impact on the expenditure side of the budget. For the next three years, we are really at our disposal the significant funds from the Recovery and Resistance Plan that will need to be withdrawn quickly. We know that these deadlines are quite short, but these resources should focus on projects with the greatest reform potential and a contribution to GDP growth. If these funds end again, and there is a sign that they will in public sector projects further strengthen the role of the state in an economy that is still too large. A number of corruption affairs point to a continuing extent not only harmful to the economy but also to our society as a whole. Thus-designed investment plans could further worsen such a non-competitive economic structure of the country and negatively reflect long-term fiscal sustainability. And in the end, I'm just going to say that unfortunately we expected more from this budget, it's done in these circumstances that have a large amount of uncertainty, but we still felt that this is also an opportunity to run certain development cycles, so the Homeland Movement will not support this budget because this budget provides stability, but stability at the beginning of the EU. Croatia is slowly but surely turning into a colony dependent on EU funds, a tourist portfolio for citizens and the same EU pool of qualified labour for developed members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14449	The next club of MPs is that of IP, Smart and GLAS on behalf of whom the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14450	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. Everything we predicted last year, everything we agreed on or didn't, but in early 2020, it fell into the water because of a virus that destroyed the world, and all of us personally and completely disrupted our plans to the state. And here we are again in the discussion of next year's budget, and no matter what we think of it, it's a fundamental hope for all of us, that something so unpredictable and strong happen again, that all the plans end in the trash bin, and that we've been saving a living head for the whole year. And unfortunately, it's like we haven't learned anything again or we don't have the courage to take any step. The budget is the same as always, very conservatively planned without new ideas or large cuts. And the years to go, and the one to come, will certainly be challenged in many ways. Unfortunately, the very projections of economic growth show that we remain the most ambitious country at the end of the EU order. After eight or more percent of this year's downfall, we plan to grow 5% next, and then 3.4% and 3.1% in 2022 and 2023, it's simply not enough to freak out from the bottom and get close to the successful in any way. If the budget is the basic plan of what the state wants to do and be, then we are already at first step disappointed because obviously we have no intention of doing anything or at least nothing serious. But of course, according to the old custom, expenditure is growing significantly again. And compared to this year's execution plan for nearly 10 billion kuna, we're almost approaching 20 billion kuna growth compared to 2019. And now I'm asking you and myself a few questions. Why? Where exactly do you see that? More importantly, have we achieved this growth because of the growth in income? Did our incomes grow because our economy has suddenly become modern and successful and produces much more added value than before? Have we found 20 billion in reforming key systems like this? Health care? Have we, God forbid, budgeted billions and billions that we give to various HDZ clients, individuals, institutions whose privileges we pay in billions of total money to pay back by returning it back? Of course not. One of the things we had the opportunity to give the empty millions is the draft national development strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, there will be opportunities to discuss it in more detail and comment, but these 143 pages can come down to that well-known sentence, it would be better to be rich and healthy than poor and sick because this strategy is not more than a hundred pages of good wishes that probably can be counted by children in elementary school, but even when, and if so, it would be logical to expect that some of these small desires might start to be translated into budgets, and perhaps in this one for 2021, we unfortunately see nothing, and we should see already in this budget, which is what we are planning and what country we want to be in 2030, which is there tomorrow. If not 2050. Are we finally going to start developing green technologies, i.e. by transforming our entire economy into a green economy? I always repeat, and this time I will repeat and say, green transformation is the best opportunity that has been given to Croatia since independence to catch up with developed and successful countries through the development of modern technologies and industries. There will be funds at our disposal, regardless of all together, which are intended for such a purpose, but we and in this draft budget do not see at all that there is real awareness of it. If we're going to be a country that's going to develop IT technology and industry and how we're going to develop it so that we don't fall into a trap of cheap, actually poorly qualified workforce only in the world of digital technologies, products and services. What we need is research and development, added value, and all of this can be seen in the budget if we make that decision. It seems we haven't made that decision yet. Unfortunately, the year at the end was what it was, with the coronary virus and all the consequences it brought us. One of these consequences is that we focused mainly on those basic activities to keep our lives going, how it works. It mostly came down to school and work, as the main points around which everything revolved. Many other activities, all that we felt could be avoided temporarily, we avoided, and there were lasting damages. The activities that have been suffered and which I particularly highlight are culture and sport. We put culture and sport in that category “not necessarily, ” but we forgot that they are very important both for the mental and physical health of the nation, for our thinking and development and all that we are or would like to be. One thing that's not clear to us at all, e.g. where they came from, there was no support for independent artists who fell to zero from 8 million this year in the next year. Where'd they go? A very special story I want to highlight is the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb and two neighbouring counties after the earthquake. The damage assessment was about 42 billion kuna. At this point, 980 million kuna is secured, so we can absolutely calculate that to rebuild, at this rate it takes 50 years, but bearing in mind that everything from the Solidarity Fund will be used and can only be used to rebuild public buildings, according to this budget proposal, the reconstruction will end our grandchildren. We have in this proposal very many items that we could discuss and which we think are either unfairly high or low. For example, there is a significant reduction in the money for the assistants in the course, but on the other hand, the fund for medicines on the list of HZZO is reduced by approximately 300 thousand kuna and 10%, respectively, compared to this year to around 2 million and 900 thousand kuna. In doing so, the Croatians' Office, therefore, Croats outside Croatia, the budget has increased more than we have in common for medicines that are not on the list of HZZO, and at some point we will wonder again what kind of state we are that we do not even have for medicines. The prosecutor for gender equality has again reduced the budget by about 30 million kuna. Something you should certainly do, something you should certainly give an answer to is the University Campus in Borongai. It is worth 6 million kunas, while for example 8 million kunas are given to Bosnia and Herzegovina in the system of science and education. Or support from the Catholic University that is increasing every year, so now it's 25 million and 700 thousand. So, there are clear priorities, but let's go around Campus in Borongaj and make a decision, or we give up, and then we'll give up and explain why, but if we don't give up, then it's obvious that this campus needs to be invested more to revive. Our club will not support this draft budget, we will give amendments in which we will propose a certain redistribution of funds in favour of education, culture, sport, green technologies and green development. These are exactly the topics that we consider to be the most important for the faster and more successful development of Croatia. If we continue with such a conservative budget, let us not be surprised that next year or years behind us, we are back to the beginning between all EU countries, and in something that we can certainly all agree on, regardless of which side of this assembly we are sitting on, that we do not want to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14451	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of HSLS and reformist on behalf of whom they will speak respected representative Natalija Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14452	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable ministers, secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. After the elections, the People's Party of Reformists decided to support the government of Andrej Plenkovic. Why did we do that? As 76 of 76 of the required hands, it was clear that if we did not support this government, it was not realistic for someone from the left block to do so, it was quite clear that HDZ would have to deal with what was left, and that is the radical right. We felt that the messages, attitudes and ideas that communicate these parties, starting with the views on human rights, women's rights, national minorities' rights, and to question the justification of RS entry into the EU, were not good and that the entry of such parties into the government and the ruling majority would be a terrible bad and one big step backwards for democratic but economic processes in Croatia. They'd condition their HDZ you couldn't help. Together with our colleagues from HSLS at this point, we are defending the arrival of a radical right to the positions in which our citizens' lives are being decided and influenced because when it is at the level of statements and announcements and debates in the assembly, it is one thing, but when they operate through the government, it is already dangerous to live in real life. That was the reason for our political decision to support this government. The second reason why we supported the government relates to the implementation, programmes, projects and implementation of reforms. We are fully aware of our dimensions and the fact that with one representative we cannot build a common government policy, so in this sense we have not even asked for a government presence at the level of ministers or in any leading state positions, we have set our goals, programmes and projects that we want them to be realized for. At our request in the government programme along with some other regions, the priority is put to the north and it is the first time that the north is found in a programme of one government that we certainly commend. We're not looking for anything more, but we're not looking for anything less than what other regions are getting. The entire government is actively communicating with the results of the Slavonia agreement. The prime minister himself answered my question that more than 16 billion kunas were invested in Slavonia and that investments and state investments continue there. An agreement for Slavonia, the mayors signed with the government four years ago, the mayors of 5 northern counties also asked the government for xy times, prime minister, minister and so on in a circle, nothing has happened so far. Why can a development agreement for Slavonia and not for the north? In the north, people have the lowest wages, state investments bypass us in a wide circle, and that was less and more standard of behavior for all governments so far. This time it is made clear by the government, which is the prime minister himself in response to my question that it will be done. I therefore ask the mayors of Varazdinska, Međimurska, Krapinsko-Zagorska, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, Koprivnica-križevnica and Zagreb County to sign the agreement and clearly define the projects and deadlines of their realisation. How the counties could not have provided more serious support to the state has turned to European funds. Some of them have proved extremely successful, such as the Varazdin County, which has become the most successful county in the realisation of European projects and the withdrawal of European money in Croatia. But there's a new challenge ahead of us. Given funds 50%, 60% or 85% of the assets of the local self-government unit must provide the rest. In this mandate and in this wallet, through a part of the return from the state and part of the local self-government credit line, financial structures have been closed but those funds have been exhausted by the local self-government units. We have a new wallet before us, Croatia has really fought for serious funds, and there we should congratulate the Government, but now we must also ensure the conditions for these funds to be taken. Importantly, if not the most important leverage in the story are the municipalities, cities and counties, but without subsidies or co-financing of domestic components by the state they will be blocked. The projects will not be reported, and funds from the funds will not be realised. We have sought and proposed a simple solution such as the Fund for Co-financing of European Projects. On a proposal from the reformists in 2013, the fund was established and it was later abolished. Of course, that's not the only solution, but let's see clearly and specifically what these are the solutions of this government. We can't report projects without the safety of the return of the domicile component. No one will engage in that adventure and funds from the funds will be realised. In this budget, we do not see this solution, so I ask Minister Maric to explain in which way it will be provided and where. The fast track Čakovec-Varaždin-Lepoglava-Zabok-Zagreb is of strategic importance for Međimurska, Varazdinska and Krapina-Zagorje County and the whole of Croatia. Just to get a picture today you drive from Varazdin to Zagreb on the highway some 40 to 50 minutes, by train from Varazdin to Zagreb today you drive 2.5 hours. Construction of only 17 km of new railways and modernization of existing ones would come to the 40 minutes of Varazdin Station, Zagreb Station. I don't need to stress specifically what this would mean for the economy, employment, education. In the last term, the project has been systematically slowed down with key thesis so we will not be funding Cacic's railway, I think it has now matured the situation to raise this big and important project from petty daily politics and do what we have to do as a state, 95% is ensuring the EU anyway. I can't, of course, open up all the topics that are important to the north in this debate, so I'm going to look back at two more key topics. One is certainly the University of the North. Since I was the first representative in the parliamentary procedure to submit a proposal on the establishment of the University of the North, which is ultimately and adopted, I am now asking that this university ensure equal status with all other universities in Croatia. Now, unfortunately, it's not like that. Just a short comparison of the amount of funding this year to get a feeling. So, University of Zadar 107 million kuna, University of Pula 52 million kuna, Dubrovnik 46 million kuna, and in Varazdin 35 million kuna. The amount of students in Pula and Dubrovnik together is equal to the number of students in Varazdin, and their budgets, budgets are 3 times higher than the varazdin. Therefore, in terms of funding of the University of Croatia by a student of the University of the North, it is convincing in the last place. If it's like last year's idea not to anticipate funds in the budget, then local HDZ will make amendments, provide funds. That's fine, but I think it's underestimating the university, but also our region, if all the other universities can get the funding provided for in the budget in the regular procedure, I'd like to ask nicely to ensure the same for the University of the North. Another subject in which an unequal status is clearly seen is the issue of funding the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Varazdin. In this regard, this home compared to the number of users and the comparison of the cumulative average of financing per user in other counties has been systematically cut off by around 3 million kuna per year. It was presented to Minister Aladrovic at the meeting with evidence of the non-transparent distribution of decentralised funds. The Varazdin County has invested 33.3 million kunas from funds or credit debt that actually invests in state property, and in order to restore the home energy. So we demand that the funds be provided there. I was talking about roads in the replica of the Prime Minister. It's from the HNS domain, so here's what I expect, given that none of it is foreseen now or in the budget. It was also removed from the rebalancing that in the next period it would be secured. The Prime Minister also spoke of it today. And now I'm going back to the start of a debate about support or not supporting the government. Although we call ourselves Reformists, we do not claim to be the main reformer in the country because it is not realistic with one MP, but we will certainly propose reforms. It is currently going towards the procedure of our Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. The proposal is aimed directly at curbing the corruption of state officials by speeding up court proceedings. The proposal is clear, concrete, affecting the core and abolishing the possibility of manipulation. As such, when it comes to the vote, it will very clearly show who in this House really wants to fight corruption. We cited the reasons for the opening that we supported the formation of this government. Now I ask you to specify what you will do and when you will implement from the agreed and presented so that we have reason to support this budget as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14453	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first one was picked up by a fellow Sacic. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure? What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14454	Dear Chairman, I report to the Rules of Procedure Article 238, paragraph 5, because my colleague Martincevic, knowingly and deliberately offended a significant part of this Croatian Parliament, on a puzzling note to them by calling them the enemy of Croatian democracy, the radical right hand, everything that should be avoided in Croatian society by her eyes, and I believe that this should be noted. Because the Constitutional Court is the one that... Who's who. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14455	Thank you very much. Of course, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so please don't abuse that institution. And colleague Vucilovic has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What do you think he's hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14456	I thank the chairman. The colleague injured Article 238 not to stick to the subject but to label it, insulted a good part of the legitimately elected MPs in the Croatian National Assembly. I will remind her that the SOA report says that there are no such radical elements in Croatia mainly not on the right, and it confirmed by its exposure what we are all saying is a trade coalition because it clearly said that I expect you to do what we are looking for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14457	Thank you very much. Of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. These things are attitudes, attitudes are different, I agree with them or disagree with them. Therefore, I ask that in the future we do not abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure. You know very well what the replica is and what is the Rules of Procedure, what is allowed and what is not allowed. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU will now speak the esteemed representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14458	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The budget ahead of us could be classified under the one in the east nothing new, in the west of the old story. Unfortunately, there is nothing in this reformist, revolutionary budget but only that the budget is more than 25 billion than it was last year, although it is written here that the hole will be only ten billion which is less than last year. But I'm afraid it will be far greater, and GDP growth is more than 5% I think it's very, very optimistic. Unfortunately, when we look at the revenue and start from the gambling revenues that are 100 and some million kunas bigger, planned for this year, when we look at the profit tax that was planned for 1.7 billion kunas more than last year, and when we look at the tax on goods and services planned for 11 billion kunas more than last year, then we have to wonder if this is really so unrealisticly planned or if we're going to make a little joke before the next local elections again, the government is going to win the Corona virus as it was the previous election, so we hope that after that everything will go very, very well. But I'm afraid it won't be like that. Our tourism fell significantly last year. We don't expect him to grow next year because of the situation of the coronary virus pandemic, so I think it's logical that consumption will fall. Because, unfortunately, many of our fellow citizens will lose their jobs, because many caterers and now suffer great damage and very, very hard to do, and I think that by strengthening the measures, the stress will make them feel even more affected by the pandemic on income, on business, not only with the caterer but also with other entrepreneurs. Our entrepreneurs are also overburdened by tax duties, both fiscal and parafiscal and here, last week I was in Frankfurt talking to an entrepreneur, asking him how much he gives to the German state. He's like from a cannon said 42%. I'm not going in if it's much or little, but I'm getting into it that he knew from the cannon how much he gave to the state and what his country, of course, gives him for what he gives in relation to what Croatia gives its entrepreneurs, which, when you ask them, I can't tell you how much they give to their country. Tax yourself, of course, they have to pay, every country lives on it, but if we go too far, I think we're going to choke those who finance the state budget, which is exactly, most of the private entrepreneurs who do business in these difficult times. The office of the president of the Republic of Zoran Milanovic has reduced funds, but the government of the Republic of Croatia has significant increases. So in total, it's more than 23 million kunas, and the government itself is somewhere over 8 million kunas, which I think the government should be squeezed at this time, by example showing that it needs to be saved, not to be saved on the other hand, and that it is appealing to donations to fight Covid from the citizens themselves who are already so exhausted. In the government, expenses for services increased more by 100%, more by 5 million kuna. I wonder what services these services will be paid by these funds and why these services have to increase right now. What is a major problem in Croatia, which is very little talked about in this assembly of parliaments, is agriculture, the situation in agriculture, and also related to the budget itself for the farm portfolio, which is about 450 million kunas smaller than last year. I know that many think that farmers live on support, incentives, and everything they get, but many farmers work from work, from the bloody work of their hands and their families, and I think that every reduction in our agricultural portfolio will come back to us. Our agriculture has fallen apart and now, we have fallen into all productions. We only operate in warfare, but not because of the intelligence of the Croatian government, the ministries, but because Italy and the surrounding countries are buying our goods. What we have a safe buyer, I am telling you from the position of farmers because I know that all my goods will end up in Italy because in Croatia because of the poor policy and because of the poor state of our livestock, our goods have no one to consume and convert into added value. Therefore, every reduction in the agricultural portfolio is bad. Development of livestock production, a million kunas less than last year. However, last year there were 5 million and 900, now it's 4 and 900. And last year, it was too small. Our dairy is extinct, only rarely do milk production, every day more and more give up, due to poor price, poor conditions and poor policy towards milk producers. So here's even the funds for direct payments to the common agricultural policy are down by 123 million kuna. Does this mean that our farmers will get less support next year? In this case, yes. This means that their total income will be reduced and that despite the rule of the coronary pandemic, which has problems with the distribution and sale of its goods, they will get even less support, for which they never know exactly how much they need and how much they get. A national programme to support the cow system, the calf. It is one production that can give many things to the Republic of Croatia, since cattle that feed on pastures that are otherwise either not exploited or abandoned agricultural land, which can very easily become organic production, unfortunately this year we have not put in here any lip for the development of this production, last year there were 3 million kunas. We in Sisak-Moslavina County, in the area of Popovace, have one group of producers who are dealing with this production that grow each year by production and by volume of income, develop their economies and instead of retaping it to other parts of Croatia that have the opportunity to do so, we put 0 kunas here to develop this kind of production, so we don't need it obviously either, and then we will import it from some other parts of Croatia. Preserving the original and protected species... agricultural herbs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 0 Kuna, last year we had 600 and some thousand kunas. So we don't want to guard our original seed, our original plants, we'll let it all go to waste. Improving forest management and forest land of forest owners. 25% of the forest is in private hands. 0 kuna for the development of this part of forestry. Unfortunately, the E.R. is bad for us. In the last term, I spoke several times about emergency helicopter service, 63 and a half million kunas as long as it takes to make it work. We wrote amendments in the last session. I've written the amendment now. In pre-election times, the government boasted about the organisation of an emergency helicopter service. However, I fear that none of this will again be 63 and a half million kuna. Don't forget that the government recently gave over 60 million kunas for cell phones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14459	Thank you very much. Now we're going to take a break for the air, and then we'll meet again in 15 and 40 minutes. It's 3:27 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 15:41 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14460	Here we are talking about the most important issue today, we are discussing a document on adoption, key adoption means that is the budget that the government has proposed, and each budget here I have voted for the budgets five times already, i.e. have always been suggested to repeat the same stories and the government acts and relations towards the Parliament of fellow Members and fellow parliamentary representatives really as a handlifting machine. I often repeat it so it may seem irritable to those who raise their hands neatly for a budget like this. I can list the basic few things here as far as agriculture is concerned, my colleague used to say, he has never been singled out for agriculture again, and we have never produced less, which means that the incentive policy is disastrous, that it is questionable and that it should be audited because if we never produce less, and we have never produced less, and we never imported again means that money in incentives is given in the wrong way to the wrong people, and that is why we have, mainly these two-thirds of Croatia. I know which ones are outside of Zagreb, I know that the earthquake has caused a huge problem in Zagreb and that it was catastrophic, but in these two thirds of Croatia remained a much bigger problem than in Zagreb. means mountainous and mountainous areas, undeveloped areas have no financial envelope at all, nor have fair indices of development in order to provide funds under some normal criteria from Slavonia to Gorski Kotar, Like or Dalmatian Zagora. Here was the mayor just before he came out when I'm saying I don't know why he's from Drnis, I know why he's silent, here, so unfair we have this even policy that I'm calling on Prime Minister Plenkovic to pass a law like according to Slavonia for Zagora and Lika and Gorski Kotar, however, it will be a clean PR as Mrs. Žalac passed a law on undeveloped landscapes and a law on mountain-mountin where even the kuna was not in the financial envelope any minor amount. We're looking at the ecological side, we've got a minister of threat, I said you don't combine the economy and the environment, it's a merger of fire and water, and that's why we have a production of harmful projects in areas where they shouldn't be. Here I am watching Krka, which is forgotten, watching lagoons, looking at Knin that are full of toxic oils entering the Krka River and the only thing the Minister of the Environment deals with and how to name the director if it has a party card of HDZ and HNS, regardless of what Mrs Ljiljana Zmjanović had the status of defender and what is better about other references. He doesn't care about Plitvice Lakes, he doesn't care about channelling 2 million people to visit, he doesn't care about the problem. Two-thirds of Croatia currently have two-thirds of Croatia i.e. 40 units of local self-government do not have the opportunity for a kindergarten child, for one child, and they have mayors, secretary councils, the assembly means we do not respect what the EU and the European Council brought in 2000, that 90% of children in the EU must have the possibility of kindergartens from 3 to 7 years old. How much is in us? So we need to find funds to pay kindergartens in undeveloped areas to exclude parents from that obligation to stay in the area, to stay alive. How's he gonna live in Dalmatin? From the air, except that before the elections are promised various projects and from these projects there is nothing, except these smaller roads di tribute voices that you can see the causes of election cycles is the asphalt is thick to see when they are presidential, when they are local. So no serious projects. In my Cetina region, which has 50,000 inhabitants larger than Međimurje County, which is larger than the population of Ličko-Senj County, no project has been achieved, no irrigation of Sinjsko polje, no quick road connection on the highway, absolutely no project, and so in the entire Republic of Croatia we have burned two-thirds of Croatia except the pointy Zagreb and certain pointy areas where something is invested, and everything else... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14461	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14462	Dear fellow Bull. You were talking here about the budget and the problem of completely missed concepts that care about waste management. We know that 30 million kunas have been spent in Lečevica, so you can tell the Croatian public exactly what 30 million kunas have been spent on. We in Rijeka have huge problems with Mariščina completely missed the concept of waste management, now the wise men remembered to build a garbage burner in Sušak Draga in the water protection area, and then the paper and plastics from Mariščina carried there to burn, and then with that energy they did other missed things again. What can we do here to make sure that Croatia gets a normal concept of waste care? While Denmark closes all its burner facilities and achieves a national consensus for me here still in the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14463	An answer that's not really about the budget issue, but here's my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14464	Thank you. Well, that's right, the Minister of Environment, Mr. Coric, who, by his crazy and unreasonable decisions he makes, you mentioned now the management of the waste, which occurred to him, that he was sending waste from Vrgorec to the city of Sinj 120km in the same dump, the same municipal conditions, just because it occurred to him by heart that he would say that some of the municipals had shut down this dump. These are crazy decisions, it pollutes the environment, and we have a number of examples that are.../incomprehensible/... with you these harmful projects, and pests that in the karst area threaten such as Lečevica, which was planned to spend 30 million, which would be better for your colleague Sanader to know the vice president of the assembly he led the project. You know what's left of the 30 million in Lečevica of that harmful project, they didn't do with the heart, but 30 million kunas were invested. Croatia's Triba such as Krk, waste separation, we have examples in Croatia and the way the waste is jobs and money, not to have... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14465	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoya, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14466	Thank you. Dear fellow Bully, the government has not decided to disbursement our entrepreneurs, and on the other hand, they complain that they have no income. I am here today, and you in your discussions have presented several models how to increase the revenues of the state budget. Number one to declare an exclusive economic belt, there we would, where our fishermen would catch around EUR 31 million, such an assessment by the European Commission annually of this fish catch. The second war damage and damages from Serbia and third colleagues Bačić and their colleagues from HDZ to pay this to the state budget means what they have benefited from the Fimi Media affair, a beautiful means of making sure that these three things work to make some small bit more significant engagement could be secured for the Croatian budget, for our citizens, our pensioners, our entrepreneurs, our farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14467	Thank you, we have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 was injured by his colleague Grmo. The Rules of Procedure, saying that we in HDZ and I personally respond, have taken advantage of ourselves in the Fimi Media affair. You know very well the facts by which I have not been used in the Fimi Media affair in any way, and you purposely impute me on an open stage. A fellow bush road from liar to hoarse is very short, remember very short, and your conduct in the assembly already came that way seems to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14469	Thank you, thank you very much. This I ask all MPs to stay away from the hard words, to stay away from personal insults, etc. Because I'm going to start giving warnings simply because it's not the way you communicate in this house for at least as long as I'm sitting here. So, I'm asking you nicely to stay away from it, stay away from personal labels and personal address, please. You insist on still fellow Miletic, well, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14470	Thank you very much. Although one important book says no one will ever be able to tell your fathers in 238, they ate sour grapes and their sons to rot, a colleague of Grmoya here was attacked and disappointed as a parliamentary representative as well as I heard he did not focus on anyone personally but was talking about the party, so here he would really want us to treat each other with a higher dose of courtesy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14471	I agree, but the parties can also be offended, and I'm giving you a warning like I'm going to give to anyone next who starts to discuss it that way. Here you go. Comrade Bull, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14472	Here I would respond to the private part of the replica that is part of the exclusive economic belt and it is unreasonable while Italy declares its exclusive economic belt, now that we have 100 years of.../incomprehensible/... contracts that the Italians usurped our coast and 24,000 km2 that we do not take control of what our obligation under international law and a huge amount in the budget on the revenue side. And today he does not want to talk about it either HDZ or the prime minister, which is why, which is why, and the Italians are clapping on those who usurped the Croatian sea, who destroyed Croatian fishermen to make the ruling friend of the fascist Tajani who owns our Dalmatia and the Istu. And even colleagues and colleagues I see in interviews give support to the Italians to declare an exclusive economic belt, and here's counterpart Petir was, giving support to the Italians, and our exclusive economic belt is being destroyed, destroyed... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14473	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14474	Dear colleague Bulj, I am still under the impression that we are all less valuable radical rightists, please, regardless of the context of the debate, what you think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14475	I won't let you answer that, I'm giving you a warning. Because we can't, we won't discuss it that way, we're discussing the budget. [[/Intruder: Why?]] Therefore, we are discussing the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14476	Well, no, he has the right to speak to his colleague Sacic, he was talking about the budget, you didn't warn a colleague who insulted parliamentarians that they were right-handed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14477	Comrade Bulj, please, please nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14478	I want to talk to my fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14479	You have nothing to answer him because he's been warned of something that doesn't belong to this discussion at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14480	So the man asked me a question from the discussions that were preceding. How it doesn't belong when a colleague here insulted parliamentary representatives that they're right-handed people who...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14481	Don't talk to me like that. You can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14482	So do not take away the right of the intercessors. The man got preferential votes, I'm preferential votes, and I don't know how many you are, but allow the debate don't just protect your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14483	Excellent, but I prefer you now, in Article 239, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14484	But I'm only protecting my coalition partners and what article it's based on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14485	Based on Article 240, I give you a reminder by taking away the words. Let's move on, next is the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14486	What are you taking my word for? You took my word for what? Just what I wanted to say to my colleague Sacic...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14487	Comrade Bulj, please go to your place. Comrade Bulj, please go to your place. Col. Bulj, based on Article 240(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14488	You're acting dictatorically... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14489	I give you a reminder by subtracting a word until the end of the debate on this subject. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14490	I would just like to warn you, Mr. Vice President, that you immediately gave the measure of taking a word without giving your colleagues a second warning to Bul, which is not a business warning, and my colleague Bulj was rightly angry. But here I don't want to cause any problems here. I'll try to articulate this on what we wanted to warn you about. So we've asked three specific questions here. I don't know why my colleague Bacic was offended. The political party, the Croatian Democratic Union, has an unlawful verdict. It is another such verdict to the party that it must pay the money into the budget. So it is no false accusation unless counterpart Bacic believes that the Croatian judiciary is independent. If counterpart Bacic believes that the decisions of the Croatian judiciary should be ignored, then I could understand his strong reaction to me. I'd like to ask Mr. Bacic a question from this place saying this is some kind of new HDZ. As far as I know, he was part of that government. A fellow Boric who sits there, and now he's gone, was part of that Sanader government. Parliament Speaker Gordan Jandrokovic served as minister in the ministry dealing with Fimi Media. If this is the new HDZ, why are you complaining about the verdict? Let that old HDZ suffer for all of it. If that's the new HDZ, then there's no need to appeal to that verdict because this verdict is none of your business. So you discredit yourself, compromise and behave very strongly, you threatened me here so you made a threat here in the Croatian Parliament. I've been very polite. I've been very decent all day. You could see that even now by this reaction, even though my colleague Bulju's word was taken away, and she shouldn't have been taken away. But I want to calm the tensions here. But I certainly won't let my colleague Bacic tell us what we're going to say. This is a free country, and I'm going to say what I think is right, and it's good and it's true. That's why I was elected by Croatian voters here in the Croatian Parliament twice in a row. It was a lot harder for me than it was for you. It's been a lot harder for me if we take the fact that you're funding, and how my political option is being financed, so we take all these affairs that you're burdened with. The rest of my speech will be dedicated to two very important topics that Prime Minister Plenkovic does not want to talk about. The Italian Parliament wants to declare an exclusive economic belt. When Prime Minister Plenkovic was asked today, he said it refers to Algeria. Do you know why it's possible to only refer to Algeria? Because it does not suit them means to declare an exclusive economic belt with Croatia because they benefit from this unresolved situation, because it is the cost of Croatian fishermen. This is where the Croatian economy suffers. If the European Commission's report said that the IGP declaration for Croatia would mean 32m euros per year more fish catches, how much is it for the Croatian budget in incomes or income from new taxes? Very much so. How much is that for a better standard of Croatian citizens? Very much so. You do not want to declare the IGPs. You are doing the opposite of Croatian national interests. Number two. I'm the only man in Vukovar yesterday who mentioned war damage. Why are you running away from war damage? President Jandrokovic flees and says, "Why are you running away from great Serbian aggression? You're talking about Milosevic's regime. It's not Milosevic's regime. Is this some kind of re-agreement agreement that Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic had not to mention great Serb aggression? We want this government to take steps to collect war damage especially in these difficult conditions of the coronary virus epidemic when our economy is at risk. We want our Government to declare an exclusive economic belt and provide additional funds to Croatian citizens, Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian pensioners and we want you to pay and return the money you took through Fimi Media. That's my message. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14491	Like this, it wasn't exactly about the budget directly, but there are multiple replicas to your exposure. He's the first respected representative of the Zvonimir Troscott. ... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A colleague, Frankovic, picked up a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14492	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Representative has injured Article 238. He's insulting the MPs. He mentions their names, and I don't really see any reason to talk about criminal responsibility, so he can report them to certain institutions, and not here to guess if it's day or night or not I don't know something third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14493	Okay. Thank you. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you nicely, let's stop playing these injuries to the Rules of Procedure and abuse of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please nice, it really doesn't make sense. We are now discussing the State Budget Proposal for 2021 and projections for the 22rd and 23rd years. You yourself have told many of you from various parties that this is the most important document this House brings. It is. So don't make a joke out of it and don't abuse it for fighting on one ground level. Let's discuss the budget. Someone's gonna say he's good. Someone's gonna say he's bad. Someone will have comments like this. Someone will have such remarks and let's discuss it. But let's not go down to the level of people looking at us and thinking about this House the way we do. I'm asking you all to take care of it. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Troscott. Excuse me, Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14494	Thank you, dear Vice President. The esteemed colleague of Grmoya, therefore, does not have the collective responsibility of an organization. Each organization has its own head, the responsible person responsible for the crimes and crimes it has committed. Do you think there's anyone more who hates or hates, condemns and despises the responsible people who used to commit crimes in HDZ? There's no one else but us here who despises such things. And because of that, you cannot condemn them with your speech of 200,000 members of the HDZ of honest and honest people, honest and honest people, you condemn them for doing evils. They worked from other parties in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14495	Here's my colleague Troscott, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14496	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Article 238 Mr. Mato Frankovic has injured the Rules of Procedure, because he has gone back into a topic that has nothing to do with the Croatian budget and has injured the Institute after you have warned as Parliament President that we are no longer returning to the topic, but to return to civilised discussions today's topics, which is the Croatian budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14497	I agree completely with you, but unfortunately, my colleague Grumoja initiated this whole story not entirely speaking about the budget, but just these things. Unfortunately, therefore, a situation has developed that I absolutely and deeply disagree with. And I'm asking everyone else to go back to the budget debate, no matter what my colleague Grmoy said, no matter what you said or anyone else said. Please, let's seriously discuss a serious document concerning all the people in this country. Here you go. [[Is it me?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14498	My colleague Frankovic, I agree with you not every member of the Croatian Democratic Community can be responsible for what has been done by the leadership of a political party, but also Andrej Plenkovic and this HDZ leadership can then, by your logic, be responsible for the creation of the Croatian state. When you're comfortable with the old HDZ then play, you're like Croatia or Dinamo would take all the trophies, and you wouldn't inherit the debts. It's not working. So what doesn't suit you would get away from it. If one legal person is responsible for criminal activities, and the leadership of the Croatian Democratic Community, which was then led and elected by HDZ members, is obviously responsible, then the legal person is also responsible. This does not mean that every HDZ member is responsible for criminal activities or that every HDZ member is responsible for the creation of the Croatian state. Andrey Plenkovic certainly didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14499	Okay. Let's talk budget. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Troscott. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14500	Dear Mr. Grmoya, in your work, I noticed that you have done a lot of work on the topics of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and that you have repeatedly pointed out how much our entrepreneurs are burdened with the burdens, so I would ask you to comment on the Government's decision. And the question of number two that is multidisciplinary is actually multi-resorially free to say so, is that here's a recent opportunity to testify that the Italians have actually tried to build a garbage dump in Presid which would also lead to a financial or budget deficit, or someone would have to pay for it, safe and at the end of the ecological. Well, since we are discussing the Croatian budget today, I would like to ask you to comment and give your opinion on these two points.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14501	The answer of the representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14502	Everything I said was about the budget. I've been listening here to my colleagues' ideas. I've got some things to say. I gave three concrete ideas on how to increase the revenues of the state budget and it was all about the budget I was talking about. What hurts is what I'm talking about. It's another problem. And what you're saying is that Croatian entrepreneurs have these covid support. And unfortunately here's a colleague of Sanader's here from Split-Dalmatia HDZ's covid support in Split-Dalmatia County gets coalition partners, Kerum's relatives. In Zagreb, so they hold the Bandic ladder and that is what is sad, and in no way do they want to disburse entrepreneurs, lift them from these unnecessary charges such as membership fees for HGK and membership fees for HOK. And when you talk about harmful projects, we witness every day a harmful project like the one you mentioned, which is both a financial burden for both local and county and then for the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14503	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14504	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to have a fellow Grumo on the collective responsibility of HDZ on another occasion when I have a little more time than I do now in the replica. I will be very happy to discuss this with you. As for the insult of my colleagues, I never go against you ad-hominem, never only when you do it to me or to any of us here and it's unargumented. That you very well, we have already had many debates here and in the halls of the Croatian Parliament. You know that very well, and so do fellow MPs who have been following my work for many years. And the third thing I gave you a line for, because this all really doesn't make sense I gave you a replica because of the economic belt. The ruling majority and HDZ will declare an IGP exclusive economic belt once it is the most optimal solution for Croatia. As regards the money and euro mentioned at this time by declaring a protected ecological fishing band, Croatian fishermen remember that their colleague, Grmoj, does not suffer any harm, nor does the Republic of Croatia, because ZERP or IGP is also after the EU has declared the common sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14505	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14506	Comrade Bačić, I agree with you absolutely. I have not addressed any insults here to any MP, nor have I offended the people who are members of the HDZ after the question of my colleague Frankovic in any way. I personally know some who are honest, honorable people. Who do their job right, so I didn't do it. I spoke of the responsibility of a political party as a legal person, and as far as IGP is concerned, Italy would not as a much more powerful country in the EU than Croatia has advocated such a situation for us to profit from it. Unfortunately, I wish it were true what you're saying, but Croatia is unfortunately not profiting from it, and I would love it if you were to go in the direction of declaring an exclusive economic belt, for that you will always have our support, for those decisions that are in the way of this new sovereignty that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14507	Replicu also has a respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14508	Thank you very much. Col. Grumo, here is to clarify fully for the sake of the Croatian public, scientist Saša Rajović, Institute.../incomprehensible/... says the Italians take almost 80% of the catches, and most of the fish are located in the Croatian half of the Adriatic and for us, for Italy it is over EUR 263 million-value fish. Math is very simple and here it's all clear who's losing and who's winning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14509	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14510	Col. Miletic, if the European Commission did one analysis in 2013 and in that analysis showed that we are losing that amount of money annually means about 32 million, then there is no reason, I do not know why my colleague Bacic trusts the European Commission when it suits him, and he does not believe and closes his eyes when he does not want to see the failures of these and the governments that preceded this government. I know when the HDZ and MOST negotiations were, we insisted on declaring an exclusive economic belt. The first decision taken by Plenkovic's government is to launch consultations on the declaration under our pressure, on the declaration of an exclusive economic belt. Davor Ivo Stier here is to commend a HDZ on these negotiations, not a man, advocated the IGP announcement, and while negotiations lasted, Andrej Plenkovic said he did not want to do it because he did not want to object to Italy. So things are clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14511	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14512	Thank you very much. Here's the Honorable Vice President, I'm going to go back to my budget a little bit, unlike these previous expeditions. And what we are all interested in, and that is how and how much we have actually used our EU funds and what has been shown so far in the budget for 2021 and up to 2023. We all know that the Covid crisis is still current, that for this reason and always hard to predict what is going to happen in the future, but we must note exactly that the EU funds are, in fact, the funds that come from them are very generous, and let us not forget that this is also a multi-annual financial framework starting from 2021, which is EUR 12.9 billion, with this previous one which we now use over EUR 10 billion and the EU of a new generation of EUR 10.6 billion. When you look at your colleagues, they mentioned that the budget itself does not show what it is and how some resources come from which I would like to mention, and the minister also mentioned that there is a table of expenditure of the state budget in the period from 2018 to 2022 and which is speaking exactly where the funds come from and help the EU. So we have total resources to help that's an "A," so according to the calculation plan, and that's in 2021. 24.9 billion kuna, in 2022, that's 25.4 and 2023. 21.4 billion kuna. From when they look at themselves in analysis, it can be seen that these are regular aids from this multi-annual financial framework, but also that there are funds that are new, so the ones that we are using now for the new and these new solidarity funds and new generations. So when it is looked at in 2021, it is precisely these, this fund of solidarity, which is otherwise EUR 683 million, was shown in 2021 with 2 billion and 52 million kuna, which means that only a partial use of this envelope is used, and is also foreseen in view of the shortness of use of these funds, which is only 18 months that additional 3 billion kuna will be withdrawn in 2022. Also, the EU's new generation instrument for 2021 provides for 210 million kuna and then we have a succession of '22. and '23. 790 and 820. It is also possible to look at all that has been used and withdrawn and which will be withdrawn through the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund of regional development, fisheries funds, agricultural development, rural development, etc., so all of this is analytically numbered as well as that Swiss instrument and other refunds of European funds. We have to say that so far over 105% of the funds.../incomprehensible/... have been agreed in this previous envelope, and that 36% has been paid, which is significantly more quality and better than it has been in some previous periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14513	We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14514	Dear colleague Peric, it would be nice not to look back in your discussions in such a negative way in the discussions of colleagues who preceded you. No escapades have I witnessed here, I don't know what you meant, it would be nice to pass on these good proposals to fill out the state budget to the Prime Minister. So, I ask you once again, once again certainly to declare the IGP, certainly insisting on the collection of war damage and certainly to pay the money into the budget, means HDZ and point it towards our pensioners, towards the socially most vulnerable citizens. Here, I would ask you from this place to pass it on to the prime minister, I see that Minister Maric is a little bit of this, absent, so it would be good for you to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14515	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14516	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I am convinced, all that is positive and good that the government will recognize, but also, I think that a lot of things have been stepped up and done and done, especially when we talk about social rights and care for the needy, that this government has done a lot more than many others.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14517	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14518	I thank the vice president of HS. Here, fellow Members, you have talked about the EU or about EU projects and you see, it is now good that we are EU members even though we still have Eurosceptics today. And let us not forget that we are a young member and cannot expect to be among the first in the EU to have a tradition for many years. Surely we can expect that in the next 10 years we too will take advantage of all the benefits offered by the EU. Here, so I ask you to tell us how much money we will withdraw from the EU and, in fact, what it means for the quality of life in Croatia, or for projects that are under way, that the state of Croatia has greater and better added value, and clearly that better people live with these money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14519	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14520	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleagues Simičević, yes, there has been a number of mentions today of the importance of our membership in the EU, and how much easier it is to get through this period, given that we are a member of this one big market and a member of the Union which, in a way, provides opportunities to solve, both economically and all other problems. We as a state in the previous period in this previous envelope are not even users of the whole period, but only one part of the period, though, during that period we have learned how to withdraw and how to create quality projects, and it is normal for us to make the most of these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14521	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14522	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. You have very nicely explained exactly how EU funds are transferred through an item called EU aid, which is now nearly 25 billion kuna for next year. There's been a debate today, and I don't think some opposition MPs knew, say, ma'am. Mrak-Taritash asked the prime minister where the active employment policy measures are, requalifications would only mention that they are right there. In the last 4 years, the government of Andrej Plenkovic has given employment policies, most of them from EU funds, but is distributed through something called operational programmes. The budget contains two items, the national component is on the HZZ budget, and this EU is through assistance... Well, thank you for explaining that a little bit more in detail to the opposition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14523	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14524	Thank you very much. Well, yeah, I think we need to read the detailed exact explanation that gives us and which quality gives us exactly the Ministry of Finance with all the data and in the budget can be read also, through every head, through every user from which source the project comes from. So, for that to take a little time and look at it, but it should also be said that it is precisely for 2021 here in the plan very carefully planned use of these funds because normally that this conservative way of planning is much smarter since, here, it can always happen, the experience says that it can happen that not all conditions are immediately agreed on, so then you can't depend on just someone else's means.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14525	The last replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14526	Dear colleagues, you have read well what is written in this point 5 as much as possible from Europe. Of course, I'm saying it's possible to win because, as we've seen, of these 105 percent contracted, we've realized 36% this year, I can hardly believe that you're going to be able to make those 105 percent as much as you've agreed to. In the next three years of 35 billion ccs you read, I'd be interested in what projects it's going to be and how many of these projects are actually going to be projects of the administration or the state administration, because it would be visible how much this state cares about the economy and how much about itself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14527	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14528	Thank you very much. So here's a colleague if you get a little stuck in just using funds then you know that from an existing envelope which is that you have three years left, so N+3 that you can use those assets from the previous period... That you can charge them means you can make them real. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is not the end of 2020, but for the envelope 2020. In 2023, new funds can be used in parallel and can also be applied to a new envelope from 2021. And that is the result of the government's work where it was said that this period of exploitation would be reduced, but we have split as a state to keep it for three years. So it's not a small period for a beginner and a beginner state like us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14529	Thank you. The next individual debate is distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14530	I thank the chairman. First, several general thesis on the budget, and then I will deal with two, three specific and specific topics in an individual debate. The first thing, as far as the budget is concerned, I'm going to point out again today has been praised as never seen a bang in HS history that we've got a budget all 19 days before. I'll tell you one fact, I don't know what it was before, but I can tell you that one City of Zagreb who is not exactly the champion of financial transparency has given more time to city representatives currently for this city budget for the following year, so even in the City of Zagreb city representatives get it earlier than the parliamentary representatives of the state budget. The second thing, it's not normal to have a rebalance almost at the same time as the budget, means the rebalance for this year as well as the budget for next year. Namely, we had a debate last week on budget rebalancing and now we have a budget where we need to monitor the reduction of the increase in certain items, but in a way that is not compared to that originally adopted budget at the end of last year for this year but rather with the last rebalancing that is not the same as the rebalancing that we are about to adopt right now which we discussed last week. So it's completely unclear and confusing how much they increase or reduce items to compete next year compared to this year. Third thing, you do a budget obviously in a table program like Excel or something, or then you either print it or automatically convert it into PDF or print it even worse if you do it and then scan it, but anyway we get it in PDF. So it would make it a lot easier for us to search the budget, figure out, do the amendments, take somewhere to give it somewhere if it were in the table view means through some Excel or some other program or whatever. It doesn't need to be Microsoft can be Open Office anyway but to do it in PDF, so it doesn't make any sense, you make it difficult for us, you make it difficult for the public, you make it difficult for yourself in the end. If it's regulated by some law or sublaw, let's change it. In the 21st century, it's not normal for me to make it difficult for ourselves to make it more difficult for the public to have such a complex and comprehensive document as the budget. So we're dealing with numbers, and we're using PDF to do that. So that's how much it is. As for specific things, if we look at the Fund for the Reconstruction of Zagreb and the Environment or in general how much in the budget for next year, I said we will get about five billion kuna from the EU Solidarity Fund, but all that money can go exclusively for the reconstruction of public buildings. According to the question and the answer I received from the prime minister today, it is amazing but true in the following year only 245 million kuna for the reconstruction of private buildings in Zagreb and other counties after the earthquake, 245 million kuna. So let me remind you that about 40 billion kuna is the cost that we predicted would be covered by the model we voted in the Rehabilitation Act. So with this dynamic, and I'm using government data now, it's predicted that the average building of some 900 squares that has a yellow sticker, so it wasn't the worst one in the earthquake, but let's say the average building, on average, went into an earthquake that some kind of cost of construction reconstruction was about 2.5 million kuna. So for this money, we can rebuild about 100 buildings of 25,000 buildings next year and subtract those public buildings that we will finance in a significant part from the Solidarity Fund, so that's going to be about 2.5 billion kuna in the next year how much money is left. And I remind the state needs to finance 60%, and in some cases socially endangered citizens 80% of the construction reconstruction, so I'm not talking about a full recovery, it's going to be private owners, I'm talking only about construction reconstruction. They ask journalists if the City of Zagreb will have enough money to match, to monitor, to co-finance what the state should provide. So if the state only provides 235 million kuna, this means that the City of Zagreb needs to provide a ridiculous 60 million kuna next year to co-finance the reconstruction of buildings, residential buildings and others owned, 60 million kuna. We spend so much just so you know on the Zagreb Arena a year, a year. We pay so much annually for the Zagreb Arena for the last 13 years and the next 18 years. So much for that. So it's simple for me if it's a dynamic that the Ministry of Civil Engineering is going to be doing the renovation next year, I think that the citizens are going to be very much waiting and this is going to take 200 years with this dynamic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14531	Time. You have several replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Mato Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14532	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Tomasevic, you know I come from Dubrovnik. Otherwise, I was born on Peljesca, the place of Ponikva next to Stone. In 1998, Stone destroyed a terrible earthquake. People lived in containers for six years. The state naturally restored Stone. After that, people went back to their family homes. The proposal for this year's budget of 245 million is for starters. The budget rebalances are used to adjust the situation after the initial funds start in the future. That service rebalancing the budget. Of course, the citizens of the City of Zagreb should be told that the houses will not be able to be restored in a year. It's just not possible. But it's certain that it's the government's instinct for home to be restored and for people to return to their homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14533	I understand. How about an answer? ... I understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But it's clear. So what I'm worried about is the dynamics of the Department of Construction if he thinks this is going to be a dynamic next year. And I'll tell you, we're not talking about six, we're even talking about ten years. That 20 grand is about that kind of private building of 25 grand, and I said conservative assessment. That 20 grand is this dynamic if 100 buildings are one year it'll take 200 years to rebuild. It means that 10 times speed up again won't be nearly fast enough if you compare it with the City of Dubrovnik, or the Stone, or Gunja or some other areas affected by the earthquake. So we've passed this law. We've taken some kind of obligation. We voted him with some of the majority here in the Parliament. So people have certain expectations. I am concerned about the operation of the ministry and the fund if this is the basis for budget planning. I don't think it's the Ministry of Finance's problem, but I'm interested in the Ministry of Construction and their dynamics on how they're going to make it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14534	Time, time. Another replica of the esteemed representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14535	Thank you very much. Your colleague Tomašević is always wrong with you and it's okay, it's not good, it's not good. Table in PDF, Excel, etc. But I read somewhere that you were a member or head of an association called the Institute of Political Ecology, if I'm not mistaken. I tried to find some kind of financial plan of that association there because I heard she gets a lot of money especially from some foreign foundations and you can't find anything. Is that really not in PDF or Excel or you don't want to show it because you don't want people to know where these money's going? So we write projects, activities, etc. And then everyone gets to know each other, 'cause it might as well start by itself at some point. Because if there's something wrong with the state, maybe it's okay with me? But I don't see it working for you either, or send me a link that I know where those money is, and that we know something about what's going on in these associations called the Institutes, watch out for political environmentals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14536	First of all, my colleague, Boric, I haven't heard from half of you. I don't know if it's a mask, or if it's your excuse, or if you're uncomfortable about what you're talking about, and then you talk under your voice. It's possible this is the third one. ... Then it's the mask. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I don't know if it's because of this ethical mask or this physical mask, or this psychic mask. I don't know what kind of mask it is. So you didn't answer my question. We're talking about the dynamics of restoration. So all I want to know is what the plan is. So how long does this plan to stretch? Do you, right now means I answer to a man in replica, he phones. Is that the way? You're replicating me. I answer you, and you phone for that time in the conference room. So you don't deserve a reply to the replica because you don't want to hear it or hear it... [[Don't argue.]] [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14537	Please respond. Don't argue with the MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14538	Go ahead. Go ahead. Do I still have time? I don't. Okay. Never mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14539	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14540	Dear colleague Tomaševic, as you know, also comes from Zagreb, but I have one question. Did you, at the moment you raised your hand for this Rehabilitation Act, trust the Government that within a month, they would adopt a programme of measures and set up a fund like she said and that they would rebuild the buildings in Zagreb within a reasonable period of time? You have now said in your debate how much money is foreseen for private buildings. 245 million if we add the 60 million to the city of Zagreb, that's 3 hundreds of millions. At least half that money will go to design only. Are you sorry you raised your hand now? And if you're not sorry in what way do you think the government can let's say to improve performance compared to what it's proposing now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14541	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14542	So the government asked for the support of a certain legal framework. We changed that legal framework with amendments and eventually raised our hand because we wanted things to go further. But what's on the government is now operational. He didn't choose the model we suggested. The government decides and proposes a budget of how much money it will make. First of all, the Department of Construction. They say here that maybe it won't fit on this, but it'll be more rebalancing. I can only say that this dynamic will take 200 years. And I hope you speed up that dynamic next year, and in that sense, I hope things change. I'm just going to say one more thing, and that's that 263 million kuna is foreseen for the APN housing loans, which means about the same amount for the measure the governor here has confirmed to raise the price of real estate because it's periodical and it's bad in that sense. We will also ask the amendment to focus some of that money on building public rental apartments because we think it is much better for young people and that it will be easier to solve the problem because we are now helping people and raising the price of the property they buy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14543	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14544	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. So today I'm going to focus on what is actually the only concrete policy in this budget from which we can read what the government's intentions are, and what is not, what is seen and what is not seen in it. One significant part of our amendments we will submit is aimed at improving the situation of children and young people, i.e. improving the education system and the availability of educational facilities for children and young people. One of the key objectives in this regard is to improve the quality of life and health of children, and to achieve this, we will propose the introduction of free hot school meals for all children as part of the primary school system, costing the state budget about 300 million kuna a year. And yes, 300 million kunas can be said to be significant funds. But let's just say that we used as you did earlier on, the European funds from the previous financial perspective, so we started recycling the plastics half of those funds would already have, because we wouldn't have to pay them in the form of penalties into the European budget. Furthermore, what we are looking for by introducing this measure is that this diet is based exclusively on local and seasonal foods that would be supplied through green public procurement using short supply chains and favouring local farming. In this way, this school-based investment would also have a significant impact on the opening of the market for local products, the possibility of small producers planning, and an increase in public awareness of the advantages of local farming. What does that mean? If such a project could achieve multiple profits except for the health impact and psychophysical status of young people, it would affect the reduction of poverty in the family through food insurance, then increase the available income of households due to the elimination of school nutrition costs and create a permanent and predictable market for local OPGs. So that 300 million is really investment and investment, not spending. Furthermore, we propose to the amendments the introduction of an item of civic education and education, and therefore we ask for civil education to be carried out in all schools as a separate subject, because it is truly amazing how lightly in all strategic documents between the basic national development strategy, the Government sends to Brussels documents stressing the importance of civic education, the acquisition of civil competences, the development of critical opinions, etc. But when it comes to the only real policy from which all other policies are to be read, which is exactly the state budget, then we see that the government has no real intention of introducing civic education or raising the civic competences of our children and young people, because it knows that in the future it would actually reduce the number of votes for HDZ. One of the most vulnerable groups in the education system is certainly children with difficulties. Their inclusion in the regular educational programme depends on the availability of assistants in the course. What's the position of the assistant in class? Every year we see that contracts don't come together on time, they don't have a standard working contract. They may be terminated at any time because of any external circumstances such as switching to online teaching. They do not have those contracts defined as paid vacations, nor can they know whether or not they will be hired every year from scratch. No qualifications are defined for them, no occupations or coefficients defined. We ask that they integrate into the system of professional partners in the teaching, age of occupation, get the necessary qualifications and get the corresponding coefficients. In addition to those most vulnerable, we have seen that this country does not care about the most gifted ones, so all 3 million kunas were foreseen for working with gifted students and students. This is specific to you when you share with the number of educational institutions and higher education institutions whose amount is intended to drop you 1100 kunas per school. Would you like to work with the gifted students 1100 kuna per school? Each of these institutions for this amount should carry out five types of activities, including financing international competitions, scholarships for gifted students, financing enhanced teacher work with gifted students, etc. So I'm asking you how would you do it with 1100 kuna? For any more serious, more systematic work with gifted students, this amount should be minimally tenfold higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14545	We have a few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14546	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bencic, I'm sorry that you're so downplaying that priority axis we talked about the most, we're using, which is social inclusion. There are a number of projects that have made this society much more compassionate and turned to different groups. Of the 6,000 women who work through the Wish program, the assistants in the follow-up that I agree with, the contract you showed me needs to change it, that's where I agree with you. But the number of assistants in the class we have and the assistant for people with disabilities is high. Young people in the government programme also have that we will build multi-functional youth centres in all counties and it will be operational programmes in the next period. Therefore, we have really shown that we are compassionate to all groups of society and pensioners, both young and old and gifted children 150 million kuna for STEM associations will soon agree. So it's not nice to say that when we suggest it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14547	So I was talking about very specific basic programs in schools. I think it's the first in the first, so first we work on providing children with free education as part of their classes as well as free school meals. We provide them with textbooks that are adapted to many groups, many groups of children with difficulties are not yet provided with custom textbooks. We provide them with assistants in the class that are paid according to normal coefficients that have normal pay. They don't have people to pay. Did you look at what the assistant's salary was in class? Well, that's what I was talking about. I wasn't talking about other things. We also requested an increase in extracurricular activities. Why? Because if we really want that turn you presented in the national development strategy, then it is unquestionable that we also need to change the structure of investment in education, but also the amount and the way we place it in order to get the results you have predicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14548	The next replica, the distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14549	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Parliamentarians, you said you needed to introduce a free school meal for all children in the Republic of Croatia, that this should be paid by the state. You know, maybe you don't know, I'll tell you, Osijek-Baranja County introduced that model in 2018 and pays for all students has a free school meal. The county carries the whole project, it's somewhere worth about 17 million kuna in, of course, with the help of the local self-government unit. That's a good model. Such a model should be put in all counties and I absolutely agree that children should have a free school meal, but I would not go to the state but to local communities because they know both domestic producers and ways how what you say from not knowing the table... That's right. [[You can't hear it.]] This is the point, so Osijek-Baranja County has been implementing the project since 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14550	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14551	I'll answer that. We provided for this item to be settled for decentralised functions, so that money is released naturally to the founders of education institutions and that it descends, therefore to local and county levels, but in this case local mainly because it is about primary schools. Because of course they know and they can organize local supply networks and I absolutely agree with that. But why did we predict that this is going from the budget, because we want equal availability on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. We do not want it to happen that, for example, in the city of Zagreb, who may be able to afford it, and that children, for example, do not have it in some poorer counties. We believe that it is the obligation of the state to what is a constitutional category, which is the availability and freeness of education, to provide equal assurance to all students in the Republic of Croatia regardless of the economic power of the county and local units.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14552	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bencic, you were talking about free school meals. I would just like to remind you that we have succeeded in removing the controversial criteria at EU level that have prevented Croatia from receiving a subsidy for healthy meals of milk, fruit and vegetables, which means that in all primary schools, such meals are now given free of charge, and it is an obligation to get from local OPGs. I hope that is how it is implemented in all institutions, because the idea is, in fact, to provide green public procurement and local supply chains, short supply chains and thus help farmers, to provide children with a healthy diet. When it comes to new items that you advocate to be introduced into the school system, I must say that I am not in favour of introducing additional obligations. Children can also be taught the values of democracy and society through the content in question and that would be much more optimal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14554	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14555	First of all, of course, what we've been up to all this time is that the availability of school meals, and this program that we already have in schools, must not depend on whether the school wrote or didn't write the project. That can't depend on it. All children must have the same basis throughout the Republic of Croatia, so when such projects are planned they must not go into tender procedures, but must be planned as strategic projects at Croatian level. That's one thing. The other thing is that it's not implemented through the green public procurement system. One of the reasons for this is that you would carry out systematic green public procurement must have systematic production planning at local level that we do not have. And secondly, you must have the capacity to implement green public procurement. Still most of the public procurement in the Republic of Croatia is based on the lowest price, not on the price and quality ratio for which they should be provided if you are carrying out green public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14556	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14557	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bencic, at first you said you were looking at these budgets and items, to see the policy direction of this government. In the second part of your presentation, you have mentioned certain new proposals that you would introduce, which you will make in the form of amendments. And that's great until you stopped and said the government doesn't care about certain groups. You mentioned a lot of schooling. At one point you mentioned students, so I wonder, regardless of the difficult budget that awaits us for 2021, not to mention the year behind us which social measures this government has given up. When we look at all the tax burdens that are now continuing, the increase in the average minimum wage. When you mentioned students, increased student class, doubled the number of scholarships, and then you just add that unfortunate sentence to the government doesn't worry. I don't think it would be a bad idea to compliment a few things, especially about social measures, which, regardless of all the restrictions, the government hasn't given up in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14558	I'll do it again. I said that in the context of a teaching assistant whose position is unregulated and I said in the context of working with gifted students. The fact is, even you will admit, in this system the educational worst goes to those who are vulnerable groups and are the hardest for them or those who are not God-given because the system is designed for the middle and it is thus perpetuated for decades. It's not just from your government, it's for decades and decades this system has been built on these foundations. What we say is that we need to change the system we invest in and to what extent we invest everything, improve the content to have the results we want. We don't say that social measures have been abolished. We say they're misdesigned, that they're wrongly designed, that we instead of investing in some things more like... These students or the work to include those most vulnerable we constantly have the same kind of education budget with the same items and that the investment ratios are those given items of pay and administration compared to programmes more or less always 70:30%. [[You don't understand.]] You understand? Until we change it We're not changing the education system. [[Invader Sanader: Time. The next replica of Sabina the Voice. ...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14559	Time. Sabina the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14560	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Bencic, you are absolutely right that, unfortunately, in this budget, particularly vulnerable groups under special education when we talk about children with developmental difficulties are neglected or not adequately treated. And I warned the Prime Minister this morning in a replica where he simply lives in a parallel universe. His answer is – so look, we're investing a lot more now than your government has invested. Yeah, because there was an operational program based on which we... provided additional funds to pay for the assistants in the class. But you're right when we say that their status, their wages aren't regulated. And not just that. In this budget most of the items are raised which is good. However, for children with disabilities, items in the Ministry of Education were cut up starting with standards of preschool education and education, assistants in the follow-up,... education of children with developmental difficulties in primary schools. [[You don't understand.]] Simply budget, the draft budget denies the prime minister and is, this is harmful and bad for children with developmental difficulties. Everyone's getting better, and they're not sure why they're guilty, they're being punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14561	Here I will try again, that what we see as a problem is the gap between our strategic goals and what we see in the budget. So the budget does not support investments in those areas that would lead to those results, for example. Here's that we want 85% of children from 4 years of age to be covered by preschool education, there's no way we can see it in the budget that we're going to do that. It is not seen in the budget that we are headed towards the solarisation of Croatia, no. The biggest projects are still in the area... So that's the problem. [[You don't understand.]] What we want to say is that we want to see the integration of our strategic objectives, strategic projects with a concrete budget. For example, if we want to, and this is written everywhere in all the documents, we want to raise the civic competences of students and teachers. So where is the money for civic education, and why don't we introduce civic education except because it doesn't suit someone politically? So we can't say that there's any obstacle. There's money for it, there's money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14562	The last replica of the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14563	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, so he's trying to convince you that you believe more in other people's words than in your own eyes. So, when we look at a little strategy that's in the public debate of the development of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, then there's a series of desires that we have to be, that we'll be smarter, more successful, and everything else, and then you take a budget for 2021 and you look at actually insisting on average, insisting on us staying exactly where we are, not doing some step. This is the time and time to step up. So, a time of great crisis, this is a time of great crisis for which we are not to blame and which is at global level, so it should turn the disaster into an opportunity, and this budget should already be recognized and seen for 2021, and it does not see. So, between words and reality, there's a big gap.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14564	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14565	Yeah, that's the problem. And I'm going to say here what tendencies you actually see there. On the one hand, I really don't have that problem with the fact that the infrastructure of churches and other deities in Croatia is funded from the budget because we are a small country and cannot be financed in a different way. And in the end, that infrastructure would fail and it's not something I want. But we pay the same people three times, we pay 300 and something million to pay the Vatican contracts to the priests, and then we pay them again to provide spiritual help at the hospital, and we pay them in particular to provide spiritual help in social institutions, etc., etc. When all these people get together, they're double free meals at school for all the kids. And now my question is, are we going to continue on the same path or are we going to say that we want to invest in science, we want to invest in education, we want to invest in equal access to knowledge and education for all students, or are we going to spend on others... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14566	Time. Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're free, Mrs. Bencic. Mariana Petir, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14567	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Bencic, you violated Article 238. The Rules of Procedure because you've brought out something that's really not true. The priests have no wages and should be familiar with the contents of the Vatican Treaties when you mention them so much here all day, you and your colleagues and call for their dictation. It is an international obligation and you are aware that you can't do them, but only deceive the public and bring the whole society into conflict in Croatia by making false statements and saying that because priests have salaries, children don't have warm meals, which is completely pointless and untrue. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14568	Ma'am, you didn't get the word. You can't answer that. That was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Rada Boric has a separate debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14569	My colleagues and colleagues, colleagues with more experience in this assembly, have given us some direction to write, have not written amendments that do not happen that this government accepts amendments. However, it did not prevent us from saying that the opposition was simply politically seeking to profit. The amendments prepared by the Green-Left Block Club are all systematic and show where something could have changed and structurally. Therefore, not just one to kidnap and give to others, but since Croatia has committed itself to implementing the Council of Europe Convention in preventing and combating violence against women, so-called The Istanbul Convention, and you know for yourself how much trouble there was, here, unfortunately, I don't see any colleagues, I'd say, from this ultra-right part, i.e. Those who were against the ratification of Istanbul, who threatened to spend millions of dollars on the gender equality budget, not to say billions, so I would like to warn that in this budget, if it looks well, you know that unfortunately it cannot be searched because in the search engine, if equality is entered, you will find it literally in two places that it stands. So here is the part of the housing of victims of domestic violence that the beneficiary of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing care is the entire 350 thousand kuna for women who should either escape from violence or after violence, to be taken care of. And that crucial point, therefore, is that we are not talking about which we should be about implementing the Istanbul Convention, improving the protection of victims of domestic violence, we have heard recently that this is exactly what the county will be doing, and here, it is only that, shelters open and here is a meaninglessly small amount of 2 million kuna for everything that should mean protecting victims, and that means prevention. So, if my colleagues told me that I naively wrote those amendments, I hope that the Government will still be able to meet its ratification obligations. Of course, I don't even need to tell you where I got those funds from, but I'd like to say that we should look at something else, which is also, we saw that we're in the crown and we suggested and we think we're doing it right and we're not doing it because we're kind of being populist, which is that we're looking for our doctors, so that a new position is opened in the Ministry of Health, which is called adding to the salaries of healthcare professionals, and we're asking that healthcare professionals to pay extra funds for the work they've invested. We don't think the crown will stop at the beginning of next year, you know how many hours they've done, and we think in that, because there's a lot in the budget of parts for the administrative costs of foreign services ministries that we don't know what they are because we don't have the fourth level of budget, so here we want to support both our colleagues and colleagues in the healthcare system and nurses and technicians and doctors. And finally, I'd like to say here after yesterday's day that we marked that it's sad that in Croatia since '91. To date, more than 3,000 anti-fascist monuments in Croatia have been destroyed, so we believe in the spirit of good times, we hope that some funds will be found in one cultural division to rebuild and anti-fascist monuments. I especially warn you to look at the resources of the Partizan hospital Franja from Slovenia received from the EU funds and included in UNESCO's cultural heritage and, please, ask yourself what condition the Partisan hospital in Petrova Gora, the oldest, largest hospital has never been discovered. If we're not able to protect such an object, then it's extremely sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14570	We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14571	Thank you very much, dear colleague Boric. I'm surprised you didn't mention when you entered the budget term gender equality, that, say, in the Attorney General's Office for Gender Equality, the funds for... That's right, half a million kuna, I think. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But that's not surprising, because this government usually has all independent institutions on it, not just the attorney general, but some others. What I was about to say, I fully support your tendency to raise greater resources for women victims of violence, especially because in the spring of the first wave of pandemics, women and children of victims of violence, the state completely forgot about them. And she did nothing despite the EU Commission's appeals to make sure that women are who, their jobs are particularly threatened, work on certain, work for low wages, have to spend 24 hours a day with bullies in space, are exposed to more violence, there is no room for their accommodation in shelters. I'm afraid we didn't see that coming in this budget proposal either, and I support your proposals and this one. You're absolutely right. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14572	Thank you. You weren't here while we were just talking about the Attorney General's Office, a colleague in front of the club said that a million kunas were almost taken from the Advocate General for Gender Equality, and in addition, this one, this one, but the EU has already done research on Covid and violence against women and it has increased 40%. So the HDZ partner, Mr. Mayor, we were looking for in the City of Zagreb, not 10 apartments, but 3 apartments for women who couldn't escape from their own homes directly to the shelter, but were supposed to be in that transition, since they were either in isolation or Covid himself, that no, that no, that other women were also killed, we couldn't get 4 880 apartments in the City of Zagreb, not 3 apartments, one apartment. I hope the government of these 350 kunas can really increase that at least women... first time [[Specially enabled.]] After they come out of violence. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14573	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivana Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, I'm so glad that in your almost final sentence you touched yesterday and the tolerance that in Croatia still cannot live in spite of all our efforts and this particular thesis that you presented about the loss of anti-fascist monuments from II. svt. The war and, in fact, in some way, the shame of Croatian citizens when it comes to the possibility of restoration, it is so neglected that they are actually passing EU funds for, for example, through the citizens' project, and it is necessary to say that this very hospital you mentioned will, thanks to the project that passed in the competition, be restored, but not thanks to the state initiative, but... to the civil sector again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14575	Well, that's right, that's sad, when I looked at what Franja looks like and I can boast because a Partizan hospital, who wants, can peel her off from some extra is, things if he doesn't like them very much, but she's lost even her status at the Ministry of Culture, it's run by the woods, and that's what's sad that we left and that we were the party that was the winner. If you look at the funds allocated to education, so to go to school and talk about the Homeland War, that's 6 million kunas worth, but 6 million kunas can be invested in a civil education in which a legitimate topic is the Homeland War. So don't keep dividing, if anything can be done to please future generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14576	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14577	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, of course, in the budget debate, we will all start from some of the priority points that we see and might want to make some personal contribution through a topic that particularly gathers us. So I'm going to start with the fact that in this relatively short period of time that we have for individual debate, it's hard to look at the budget as a whole and as full as possible, but you can see some of the obvious guidelines and some of the directions that this government has set out. So first of all, I will remind myself that the constitutional provisions of the Republic of Croatia have been designed for the special protection of the family, especially children and powerless persons, and I will place my focus on children because many are reasons why the welfare of children is extremely important for every society. The present well - being or position of children in society primarily affects the future economic development of a country, the future lives when these children grow up. And besides, children are citizens who are entitled to their rights, and one of those rights to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, is not to live in poverty. And just today, on the eve of tomorrow, children's rights should be discussed about children's rights, about this very situation, the situation in which children are located in Croatia. All research shows that entering poverty at an early stage of life will have significant negative consequences for the achievement of children in older age. This would mean that it is important to influence the reduction of child poverty, so one of the priorities of both the EU and all its members is this very guideline. The EU Commission calls, in particular, on all its members to deal with child poverty and exclusion through integrated strategies that come in and provide material safety for children who promote equal opportunities so that all children can realise their full potential tomorrow. And why am I saying this now? Well, because today we are all full of mouths of these large funds coming from the EU, funds that will ensure prosperity in the Republic of Croatia, and in fact, I wonder how much of these funds are directed directly to children and to avoid the risky situation of most children who are threatened by child poverty. This would mean that it is no longer important to ask rhetorical questions in Croatia and to wonder how many children we have in society but to wonder how these children in this society live, what standard they have, what standard their family can provide for them. And from an economic point of view, investments in children, that's what I think is important to say in this High Croatian House, investments in children are low risk investments and high returns. This means that if it were to mean a lack of investment in children, it means a dangerous and expensive society and an upcoming generation that does not offer safety. Therefore, it is extremely important to try to ensure this one feeling and additional empathy towards children, to make a minimum and I believe that you will also consider that amendment which, if I am not mistaken, will go from the SDP Club, which is an amendment to increase the amount of basics for children's allowance because the allowance for children in the Republic of Croatia has a significant place in the family support system as a monetary form of help to mitigate the risk of living standards. So, the proposal is that these minimum funds that children or families make to help children are raised by 50%, or that they grow from 100 to 150 kuna per already existing recipients of the child's allowance, and why are we looking for that? So because children and families are at risk, at risk and from the economic situation caused by Covid-19, the most sensitive and in fact threatened by the greatest risk of increasing the rate of child poverty that was high in Croatia and before the crown crisis, it was 19.7% and around 7% was higher than the average of Europe. I hope there will also be European funds to help our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14578	Thank you. The next individual debate of the distinguished representative Karolina Vidović Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14579	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will say something about the form of proposing in parliamentary democracy, one of the most important documents, the State Budget, which fully illustrates the functionality and ability of the Croatian state administration headed by the Croatian Government. First of all, in such a short time to obtain such a comprehensive document in PDF without being able to search is scandalous and confirms what the entire Croatian public already knows, which is that to the Croatian elite, in this case Plenkovic and Marić is the transparency of foreign words that fear as the devil fears holy water. Our colleagues in Slovenia, Germany, Romania, have been informed of this, receiving a minimum of 4 weeks in advance of the budget, so that the German Bundestag can discuss proposals in the spring, i.e. rough frameworks, so that the creator, in this case, the Ministry of Finance can respond to parliament's demands. Because clearly, the budget is the property of all Croatian citizens who are full of this common register and who have authorised the Croatian government to manage their assets. In today's dictionary, we'd say, the government is a trust fund manager for Croatian taxpayers. When you want to hide something or when you're afraid of the truth, then it's going to be a leap, and in today's digital time you have to be good masters, or what the first Croatian president would say, big muticators to hide the clues that expose you in your Sundays. I didn't want to submit amendments on purpose because we're not going to play cat and mouse, we all know that there aren't independent people sitting in the parliamentary majority. And that this is how the designed political architecture has provided power to few powerful people in Croatia, and to the detriment of the vast majority of Croatian citizens, because how else do you explain that Croatia, according to your budget, for 2020 with all its natural resources, with all these monopoly companies, from Croatian waters, forests, HEP, roads, highways, etc. and all natural resources exploited total revenues of only 300 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, these documents cannot be read, but it seems credible to me, of all water concessions, Croatia is revenueing 17 million kuna. Just look at the winnings of the Guarantee, and you'll realize how ridiculously ridiculous the number is. So it is no wonder that Minister Maric was building a career in the government, and then in Agrokor, which Jana belonged to, and then again in the government, without being a member of the party or having some political duty. Furthermore, former state property minister Goran Maric spoke publicly, ladies and gentlemen, publicly, that certain housing and state-owned business premises were not charged at all in the centre of Zagreb. And then you have a case with this island of Smokvica, which Todorovic used as a Croatian ban. Goran Maric said it was about 200 million kuna, but no matter how many, he had not paid the rent for 20 years. Is that what Todoric was protecting? Here, there is no need to be an analyst to answer this question because at the same time that Todorovic does not pay the concession, therefore, he generates a constant debt, Croatian governments, HDZ and SDP give him Croatian property for a symbolic one kuna. And then you, gentlemen Plenkovic and Maric, have the cheeks and hearts to call upon the troubled Croats who you wrap with high taxes and impose that the performances are justified and that debts must be paid. Only for the crime project Krš-Padene, in which you participated and who you are protecting, Croatian taxpayers will pay 2 billion and 200 million kuna in 14 years, which is only in the next year 150 million kuna. All of this wouldn't have to be paid if you broke that illegal contract. With those 150 million kunas, we could pay better teachers, health workers, etc. Furthermore, when Croatia's insurance is sold for 920 million kuna and Croatia pays itself 640 million kuna in order to buy the Imperial Hotel in Dubrovnik, then it is clear to everyone that you give state-owned Croatian people's property for invaluable property. But it is clear to every reasonable man that what you do is not out of ignorance but out of intent. And that's where we come back to the transparency and respect of the law. You are knowingly violating the laws in the name of and for the account of the deep and secluded state, which is ruling in Croatia, but you are sure of yourself because you have a judiciary that is part of that same deep state, and the result is high taxes, poor citizens and proud groups of ruling caste in Croatia. But you know, justice will win and the time will come. And in the end, I will vote with both hands against this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14580	The next individual debate is a distinguished representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14581	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. We all usually start with what the budget is and then we say it's strategic, it's developmental, it's the main document that brings this Parliament. One thing we all forget to say is that this is actually the political document of the ruling majority in which it manages society, the state and the way it redistributes is, materially, said man, means. By reading this budget, I was actually dizzy with one, one verse of the Dirty Theatre, and he said, "God save me pigeons and poor people because the rich took care of themselves anyway." Now a little bit about how rich they took care of themselves in this budget. Tax discharge says Minister Maric, it will be better for the citizens of this country. That tax discharge goes in a way that those who have a small salary will get 50 kuna on it, those who have a little more will get 100 kuna on it, those who have a lot more will get 500 kuna on it, and those who have a really big will get 1,000 and more kuna. And then you look at the next item in the budget, charge the budget, and realize that the charge will be better independent as taxes are lower. Of course, it can only be on one condition, if consumption is higher, and if consumption is greater logic, the economic logic says that prices will also be higher. So how will prices grow in this country according to these money that the state freed the citizens? Well, probably linear to the average she assigned. This means that those who have received 50 kunas will actually lose 250 kuna. That means that those who got 100 kunas will lose 150 kuna, and those who got 500 and more kunas you'll really get something. Now that's how this government redistributed funds in this country. The other thing, he says, he'll unload the economy. No, they didn't unload the economy in any element. Someone was reading the last time I thought 2,000 parafiscal duties existed in this country. It's not 2000? Less? Okay, 1999. Those parafiscal intrusions remained the same. Why are the others the same? Because they can't see how they spend, and they burden the Croatian economy. What has this government reduced? She cut the profit tax. What did she accomplish by cutting the profit tax? That whoever owns the company is easier and cheaper to get money out of the company or that he can take it out of Croatia. It's actually that key, that money that's ordered here is invested somewhere else. It is a strengthening of the Croatian economy when no one in this assembly asks why it is not easier for Croatian companies to operate but it is easier to draw money from the owners of these companies. Now, a clear message was told today by counterpart Bacic to Croatian businessmen about helping the most affected. So let's look at this budget that this government is helping most, public administration and public enterprises. The most money we'll give to public enterprises to help them survive, to survive until, until, until, until, how long should these public enterprises survive at the expense of the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia? I would really like the minister to respond when he comes out for this pay phone, how real was the aid to the Croatian economy if the payment of 4000 kuna is excluded? And finally the question you need to ask yourself is why did the rating agencies set up a rating like this? The answer is simple, because Mr Plenkovic and Mr Marić are doing what Europe asks of them. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14582	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14583	I wanted to replicate my colleague Brumnić, I agree with many things he said, but I wanted to take a special look at what he said was a political document or that the budget was a political document. And I agree there, too, and I agree that it's certainly not good to go into the tax discharge of those who have more, to go into tax discharge of those who have less, which is in the interest of the whole society. Unfortunately, that, for that option and our citizens also knew before the last elections, they should also ask themselves that they voted for that social democratic option that wanted to go to tax cuts that would benefit the wider circle of people, which would be better for the state. Unfortunately, they went to a small number election as they came out, the turnout was record low and unfortunately made such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14584	Good fellow, the turnout was very likely due to the fear of the crown, but for this speaker, colleagues from the SDP were trying to explain why it is better to raise the untaxable share of income because in this way it rises evenly and equally to everyone, which actually affects those who have lower incomes than those who have higher incomes. I am here in my debate fully clearly explaining how much money it is, how much those who have low wages will lose, and how much those who have higher wages will get.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14585	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Michel Jaksic. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14586	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, respected representatives of the resolution ministry and government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Last week I had the opportunity to participate in several discussions in Croatian media on the topic of "National Development Strategy" which we had a little bit more to hear about last week. And then when I really said in good faith that it really looks like a set of good wishes not thinking about it any more than having a desire to do it together, then I got a few criticisms and from the special adviser of the minister, prime minister, minister, that it is not so, that it is all easy and easy to achieve and that we will see our reform capacities and operational plans very soon, starting with the budget of the government of the Republic of Croatia for 2021. And here we have today's budget, like any budget in every unit of local and regional self-government, is developed and social. So we always say at the very beginning, the only thing that none of us here know to the end today is where we lost that development component because when we see what our economy's been like in the last 30 years, we definitely haven't caught it how much we needed our potential and our chances. But after today's debates and what's visible in the budget is the question of where we lost that social component, because today's most debate went in the direction of not building education, education and rehabilitation centres for our young people with special needs, that we also don't have a clear policy for the assistants in the classroom and even a brighter question that could be asked here. When we talk about the social component of our budget, it's enough to know that we didn't want to talk about putting the moratorium back on track and really preventing the executive storm that met us after this covid crisis. The development component should prove or implement clear reforms concerning part of the tax, and part of what we want with our public local and regional self-government. What my colleague Brumnic said, we have brought a new package of tax reforms, which is definitely difficult neoliberal, only goes hand in hand to large financial institutions, their centres of power because how different and commentary and to interpret that each of our tax reforms so far goes in the direction of taking only those incomes that are the units of local and regional self-government. We've never seen a state give up anything before, and every tax reform we've ever made has been in the direction that those who have less wages get a minimum, and we here in the House are going to get 100 euros, 1,000 kuna. It will not go into consumption, because these small ones who will receive 50 kuna are sure that God cannot know what, and this other part will go into savings, and also why not go into savings because as we tax capital, how we tax wealth, how we tax inheritance I think very few countries in the EU have such low rates where we call ourselves, come here to wash your funds here you will pay the least tax, there no one will ask you where you get that property and you won't have to return anything to the state budget. As a matter of fact, we are preparing for this tax reform that it takes from local and regional self-government units, and I think we are going to God for some kind of reform of local and regional self-government, but it is the same cosmetic change and reform because we do not have the courage to go through the surface and admit to how many units of local and regional self-government may not already be self-sustainable today, but today it is already breaking 20% of wages with its original incomes for its employees and perhaps already, according to the laws of the Republic of Croatia, should not exist as municipalities, cities and counties. We're going to go through this debate with these people because the compensatory measures are only promised for the year 2021 of two billion kunas in 2022, and we're obviously going to wait for them to die and disappear on their own and say that's why we have to get together, instead of having a debate about what we want with our public administration, and then reduce the public, reduce the local, reduce regional self-government, and maybe open up the space for us and reduce the VAT or allow that VAT to stay where it is being created because we know how much more developed regions are affected by it. And lastly, as for Podravka and Prigorje, I am sorry that there is no funding for the North University Scientific Innovation Centre again, no matter what administrative dispute has been won and what other than the extensions... We don't have a clear understanding of the fast road to Koprivnica. I hope that this will be improved in some subsequent amendments and discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14587	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14588	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. Here's a colleague before me mentioned among the few the National Development Strategy, I don't think it's negative at all, and here's a link to the 2021 budget that's ahead of us because it's one foundation that's going to be up to 2030 and several future budgets in a decade that's ahead of us and some development road ahead of the Republic and some tasks and opportunities we want to take advantage of. We have seen in the debate, but here is the year behind us from the Minister and Prime Minister himself, which is waiting for us in 2021, what is the fall, how much we stand at EU level and what we need to do to get back to the one before the crisis year and to stabilise our economy again. We have seen when we look at both the revenues and expenditures of the budget itself and the planned deficit of the state budget of 10.7 billion kuna, the great drive and the emphasis we place on European funds and everything that provides us with EU membership, as well as the ongoing multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, but also the new EU instrument of the New Generation, where nearly 6 billion euros of grants are foreseen by the end of 2026 and 3.6 billion euros of loans that definitely, with the national strategy and the reform plan, must be one big cornerstone in the coming period because, looking at the amount of our budget and all these issues and social measures that the government has taken in the last four years, especially in the last year, this crisis, I think they would definitely not have survived. Normally, it is a great emphasis that we also meet all the conditions and convergence criteria related to the euro area, when we look at both the level of normal savings and loans in the euro, but how much easier the situation would now be if we were in the Eurozone itself. Regardless of all the difficulties and criticisms and some suggestions we have heard from the opposition, we must nevertheless note and commend the government's insistence that all these measures and all the tax discharge cycles, including this latest tax-related discharge, related to turnover and entrepreneurs who make up to a million euros in turnover and their reduction from 12 to 10% themselves, which will ultimately give one state budget-related undertaking, and this discharge will ultimately amount to 125 million kuna left to our own entrepreneurs. We must definitely highlight all those measures of the last three years that the government has taken, which are now showing that they were very useful from the increase in the minimumer itself by 30% of the average salary by 20%, the salary in the state services, our nurses, doctors, teachers, teachers, not to mention exactly the halfing of the number of people who pay income tax. I must also stress the disbursement of exactly our new young employees up to 25 years of age who do not pay any more income tax, and those up to 30 of them are halved. The measure and the very housing lending that we have heard some criticisms and which is somewhat surprising to me that these money that we are giving out for the housing of our young families that we should transfer to some kind of unacquainted civic education in schools or other measures, while we only know one demographic fact that 2,182 children have just been born or adopted while this measure is taking place precisely for these new young families who have thus acquired a roof over their heads. When we look at the whole package of intervention measures that have prevented a significant increase in unemployment in the Republic of Croatia at an amount of 8.1 billion kuna and all economic activities that have been driven by it, we must definitely commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia that exactly and the cuts that were ahead of us and that will be in the next budget exactly do not refer to social measures which are very important and related to personal consumption, and the normal and standard of our citizens who are feeling this crisis right now, not only to discharge for our entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14589	We have several replicas, the first distinguished representative of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14590	Dear colleague. You mentioned the importance and quality of the budget, many of those who want to discount this document then forget how much in the rebalancing is increased both for social benefits and for maternity benefits and for the property censorship of this increase in the number of people who are paid additional health insurance, that is from 1.6. The Social Care Act also increased maternity benefits, that is all the preconditions have been created in the previous period and they continue in 2021. It was therefore necessary to create these preconditions that can also improve and encourage both social measures and demographic measures because all of this is what this new budget shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14591	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14592	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Peric, for saying that well. When we look at the rebalancing and the very presentation of the government and the ministry it's exclusively rebalancing was made just for the sake of investment and for the sake of health when we look at the total of the most funds that have been allocated for it. Here is unfortunately for the very brief debate we must commend the Ministry of Finance which has often received in the last four years major attacks precisely because of this conservative policy of financial management, why we are so responsible, why we may not risk in some parts. When we look at how much this applied to the debt reduction three years ago and the surplus itself three years in a row of our budget, it was the policy of the Ministry of Finance that proved to be affected because normally no one was hoping for this crisis, and when it came we were relatively prepared for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14593	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14594	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. We know that after several years of consecutive good years and the recovery of the domestic economy came this unfortunate covid crisis with the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb and the surrounding county should naturally maintain the health system, give support to the economy, maintain stability. Of course, in all this it was also necessary to pay in social care all the benefits of maternity, parenting, personal disability, child benefit, and we see that it was all essentially the state that managed to implement it. We know that the goal of the budget is to support Croatian citizens, despite all these consequences of covid and earthquakes, but to support the economy. The role of the state in this is irreplaceable, therefore what the consequences would have been if the state had not been involved in helping to preserve jobs, and we know what the role of the state was in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14595	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14596	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Maxichuk. I agree with you, this is where a strong state can and how much State interference is necessary and even in the private sector when such disasters happen. I'm going to repeat that again here in the debate, unfortunately I haven't been able to mention, exactly the discharging of the state budget itself for three years in a way that has passed. and this government has made, three years in a row, a credit rating returned to an investment level, all of these are indicators, and it is all a policy of the government of the Republic of Croatia that simply opened up the fiscal space so that today, at a time of crisis, we can simply take certain things that are happening in the area and the environment more easily and does not affect our GDP as much as it should affect.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14597	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14598	Thank you, Vice President. Here you are, the esteemed representative, who has mentioned civil education here before. Turns out civic education doesn't teach at all at school, which is not true. I would just like to remind before that our students in this system are burdened in a way that they have 34 and 36 hours a week if they have information and if they have a university class. So we work less here than they do, and we want to introduce a new, new object. So they learn interdisciplinaryly, so through all the teaching classes, they study and teach civic education, so I don't see any reason why they would introduce a new additional subject and into such a burdened system. We can think about it when the reform of the system comes, so there are 10 items, so the rest of them are electoral items, but now in these conditions when children are more burdened than parliamentarians, we want to give them some more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14599	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14600	Thank you, Vice President, thank you, fellow Shimičević, for the replica. Why is civil education mentioned? Okay, when there's a continuation of both normal and curriculative and educational and all the other reforms related to our primary and secondary education will be a chance of a normal debate and civil education, but here's the damage that we can call it in a crisis year just like this, here at least I can call it a 2021 crisis budget, again we're dividing on, on, on the left and right and we're using the budget instead of taking out items, so if we have to give certain amendments to improve it, we're using things like Vatican contracts, civic education, education. Some basic ideological recommendations that we have between the left and the right are also used in this debate. I think it just shows the seriousness of the government in preparing exactly this kind of material, but perhaps the unpreparedness of the opposition at these moments of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14601	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14602	... finance, representations and representations. [[Speaker not enabled]] This budget maintains the government's commitment to preserve stability in the difficult times caused by the crisis. With the preservation of jobs in the budget is also a visible direction to protect the values on which the Croatian society rests with respect to the international agreements and obligations undertaken. The total revenues of the state budget were projected at 147.3 billion kuna, while expenditure in 2021. financed from all sources are 157.9 billion kuna and are higher by 2 billion kuna compared to those planned for rebalancing. The Republic of Croatia has a total of EUR 23.2 billion for development strategic and reform projects from EU funds over the next 7-year budget period. Also now, the Republic of Croatia has 5.1 billion kuna from the EU Solidarity Fund to restore the earthquake of damaged areas that must be withdrawn within 18 months, and it is necessary to use high-quality projects as quickly and efficiently as possible. Some economic analysts estimated 340,000 unemployed in the spring by the end of 2020. Which would have reached the tragic 2013. when 345 000 unemployed were recorded in Croatia. We managed to preserve jobs, and thus the economy. A smaller number of unemployed people mean greater growth potential. According to the latest data measured by the State Statistics Institute in Croatia, around 150 000 are unemployed. If we put that number in a relative relationship with European countries, then we are close to the European average. That way, according to our estimates, we will recover somewhere on the European average. Economic development will be encouraged by the inflow of new European money, which is an opportunity and, for example, for digital and green transformation. Our project design for the EU's multiannual budget for New Generation Recovery Instruments needs to be well thought out in order to deliver results. We must determine the right measures, but also implement structural reforms to keep qualified workers in Croatia, and return emigrated Croats. And we must support young families through a clearly targeted and strategically set demographic, population, housing and tax policy in their openness to life. In addition to the state, it is important to preserve the people. Therefore, investment in rural space, investment in the survival of Croatian villages, and food production have no alternative. More than 7 billion kuna in the Ministry of Agriculture is a good wind in the back of our efforts. The funds for direct payments and measures for the common agricultural policy of market regulation are increased, new programmes are introduced to assist the fruit and vegetable sectors, to establish the Register of the Organisation of Vineyards and Fruiters, to preserve the original and endangered breeds of domestic animals, to support defence cooperatives in agriculture and clusters of agricultural producers. A positive increase in resources to prevent and reduce waste from food and donations is because we throw about 80 kg per capita annually, and there are still certain problems in the realisation of donations that need to be eliminated. Co-financing of soybean seed analysis to the presence of GMOs is absolutely important in order to continue to maintain its country status free of GMOs, but I think we should finally introduce an analysis of soybeans used in animal nutrition, for which I receive information from more sources that if it comes from imports, it often contains comments from GMOs. In order to preserve the competitiveness of our agricultural producers and to ensure that our Croatian consumers have access to healthy and safe food, it is necessary to focus on making standards of quality of agricultural products. Tools exist, they should be used by prescribing conditions related to the limitation of time in which the product comes from the manufacturer to the store, which is easily evidenceable and is an example used in other Member States. Every kuna we invest in agriculture is invested in our food security, which should be a priority in good times and bad times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14603	Thank you. We have a replica of the distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14604	Thank you. Dear Representative Petyr. Here I'd like to ask you, given that this is your area, you're probably interested. There is no activity in this budget which would be dedicated to implementing the Strategy from field to table, nor have we seen as an activity and as a expenditure strengthening the capacity of all public procurement providers to implement green public procurement. So, of course, a realistic question arises, if we do not strengthen capacities in this direction and for the implementation of the strategy and for green public procurement when will it actually start happening in Croatia? We see that in '21. We're not building capacity, that means we're not even in '22. We won't have that. Did you, in that sense, propose a certain amendment as a representative and member of the HDZ Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14605	Thank you, comrade Bencic, for asking. I see you didn't read this chapter well for agriculture, and you didn't listen to my debate because I said that both clusters and producer organisations and cooperatives are provided for significant financial resources, for some and for the first time these funds are being introduced just to ensure the competitiveness of the manufacturer. Because what's happening is that our producers can't deliver enough quantities because they're not united and then they fall into competitions. In this regard, it is going to help them in association, to be able to participate here and with domestic resources through the state budget, but also through those funds provided at European level to participate in all of these activities that are extremely important. In this way, of course, and place your products, but then give us this certain certainty that we will indeed eat domestic, quality and something that has come in a short time from field to table.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14606	Thank you. Now we're gonna take ten minutes to clear the area and get back to work at 1800 hours. MEETING AT 17:50 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 6:00 A.M.]] Honorable representative Stephen Nikola BArtulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14607	Thank you. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I will repeat at the beginning of the presentation that the state or, more specifically, the public administration does not create additional values, but rather subtracts mainly through taxation and distributes money according to its priorities. In this case this draft budget by my calculation, I've been doing a little research on the last few days, it has about 28,000 items, I don't know if citizens are watching us right now, but it's a very comprehensive document and in this form it's not easy to study it. It should also be recalled that, in normal circumstances before covid-19, therefore, the last three, four years since this government, budget expenditures have increased every year, regardless of the number of residents in decline and growth is faster than GDP, so the economy has grown faster. So, public consumption is still seen as part of the problem, this public spending part of the problem doesn't solve and again I'm going to use picturesquely this analogy as a public administration that looks like an insatiable octopus that spends more and more, and this stability, the alleged stability that should come out of all of this cost and actually means with us unfortunately stagnation. We have a stagnation economical and it's visible by all indicators. So we can repeat this thesis that we have stability, but at the bottom of the EU. And we need to say something about this broader context because a lot of these items rely on the use of eu funds, we don't know what will happen to the European budget, we have a serious dispute within the EU regarding the commitment of these funds to the rule of law and we don't know what the outcome will be. So that everything that stands in this proposal will not necessarily be realized, they are just projections. I still argue that the share of the total state in GDP is too high. So, the public administration and all it does is unfortunately remain the generator of poverty in Croatia and one of the reasons that many leave their regions. Unfortunately, that didn't slow down. As far as the budget structure itself is concerned, when looking at how this money is spent, I will warn that this part relating to the political system, so the financing of our institutions from the executive, legislative, judicial authorities and interest on public debt, only in relation to Greece alone, separates more in its public spending than Croatia for the functioning of the public administration itself. And we don't see any serious attempts to save, even in this item that's being led by the name Supporting the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have an increase of 8 million kuna this year for next year. This year we chaired the EU is not clear why the work and functioning of the government itself will need to cost 8 million kuna more than this year. So, the state or public administration is huge, expensive, we can't afford it this way and because of the customerist model of functioning largely chooses winners and losers in the real sector, it has too much impact on real economy processes and it needs to be reduced. I'll say it again, it's a mother to some and a stepmother to some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14608	We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14609	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Bartulic. You're in your exhibit actually touched the expense. You know, there's one saying, and it's to be saved when there is, not when it's gone. So, the characteristic of the budget is that no matter what happens on the revenue side of the budget, we act as if all these economic situations are gone. And in the context of that, one of the elements that could really have gone into one change when it comes to public administration. When a little read the Development Strategy by 2030, then it states that public administration must be fast, efficient, flexible, open, flexible, we all know that it is not. And instead of really seeing one progress in this budget for 2021, you can't see that, the spending party is still going its own way no matter how income goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14610	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14611	I would generally agree with what you said, so thank you for this replica. Exactly, we don't see any shifts on this spending side in terms of when I say that it grows every year, regardless of the circumstances. So under these circumstances certain types of increase in consumption can be justified, but under normal circumstances when we have slight economic growth, budget expenditures grow faster than our economy grows. But citizens rightly are not satisfied with the level of services and what the public sector provides. So we have an expensive state, an irrational consumption, we have a document that consists of 28,000 items, it's very difficult to study it in a thorough way and we don't see any real shifts lately.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14612	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14613	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is a pleasure to discuss today the basic document of the second term of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, which is the budget for next year. We've all heard and there are clear figures of 157 billion kuna expenditures, 2.9% of GDP deficits that we're within the Maastricht criteria. But what I am pleased with and what I pointed out in the committee's debate that the budget of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds has been increased by 566 million kuna, mostly for the implementation of existing European projects within the existing perspective of 2014-2020, and additionally what makes me happy by the Secretary of State, an additional 200 million kuna for the Fund for Co-financing of European Projects. This Government has fought hard in Brussels together with other Member States, so-called to the friends of cohesion, to keep the co-financing rate at 15%, in other words on a 100m-euro project to get 85m euros from Brussels, 15m euros to secure from our own sources. What is certain,... Secretary of State, please also for the next period to consider a new model because 200 million kuna is certainly not enough, I know that this is the maximum budget, but let's think about a new model because we have 10.7 billion euros from this envelope where 46% is paid and we have another 24 billion euros in the next period. What seems also to me is that there are a lot of misunderstandings in which European funds are linked to this budget. Mrs. Grozdana Peric, a colleague, already explained very clearly what items so-called. EU assistance is in the budget of €25 billion, but the EU budget is seven years old and is distributed through operational programmes or the National Recovery Plan for this part of 10.6 billion euros, and 12.6 billion euros will go through operational programmes. So the good part of the European funds is, as much as the opposition says now, so the budget is insecure, is that we are not sure about the European funds, exactly the opposite. A good part of the eu fund has not yet been included in the budget, and it will be included in the light power either through the rebalancing, whether or not it is neutral to the deficit, as much as you spend is refunded from Brussels. Let's look at the structure of the future, so 23.2 billion euros were from opposition to criticism there are no projects, so it's not true. We will certainly finance the railways, we will finance the promotion of entrepreneurship, research and development 25% of money from the multiannual financial framework, allocations will be on research and development, there will certainly be a tender or phase 3 of several billion kunas, 100 million Euros for Campus Rimac through the IPS programme, the Gambing Industry in Novska, "Wish" active employment policy, Mrs. Mrak-Taritash asked the prime minister not to see where the measures were. Well, the measures are, ma'am. The Dark-Taritash when you were in government were 4 billion kunas, and now they've come to 8 billion kunas, and they've just been implemented through the Operational Programme of Effective Human Potentialness and through budgets, but we've doubled the resources we're giving for measures. The Solidarity Fund is within the budget and as we heard 2 billion kuna in 2021, 3 billion kuna in 2022, that's what the opposition told us, you won't arrive, you're not in time, it's not quality, here are the money, the 510 million Euros from the Shore Programme sat down last week. In person, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, announced this to the Croatian public. For all those who say it's some virtual money, if it wasn't, here's 3.8 billion kuna in the budget last week. Which is just saying that with this kind of policy, we're going to get through this crisis successfully and that others are assessing us better and they're raising our credit ratings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14614	We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bacic,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14615	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pavić, you were in the government just as well as the Minister about EU funds and acts of negotiations, and when we talk about the multiannual financial framework itself, but now this instrument of the New Generation, you are normally familiar with this, we are looking at the opposition, the opposition of the most criticism does not give you the budget itself, but is it that we have put a great emphasis on the absorption of the EU funds and are we going to get there? I ask you who is the former minister, who understands the subject of EU funds, do you think we will arrive and perhaps which are the 3 key items that the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the state in general or the JLS need to meet in order for us to arrive on time to withdraw this very funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14616	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bacic. Well, I think we'll get there. Yeah, right now the negotiations are ending. It was even harder to post talks at the prime minister's level, which were brought in by consensus and agreed in the 7th month. It is now the harmonisation between the European Council, parliament and Member States to bring the final package. Everyone is aware of the time limit. I believe the budget will be passed in time. If not, as the prime minister pointed out today, there is procedure 1/12 of the budget to be released for next year. This Recovery Fund, or Europe for the New Generations, will also find a way to exploit it. We have, yesterday, a political consensus has just been reached that the REACT-EU will be complemented by this programming period of EUR 47 billion. So the money is going to be, what's crucial is that we have projects, and this government has shown that there is, she knows, and implements projects. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14617	The next replica is the distinguished representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14618	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Pavić, except that you know the European funds, you know a lot about reform, so I will show only on one example when we look at the HZZO budget there is a sign of reform measures. So primary health care is an increase of about 137 million kuna, and we say ourselves that we need to strengthen primary health care so that our patients don't get into a hospital system where we don't need it. Also for prescription medicines is in the new budget 130 million kuna more. The orthopedic helped 100 million kuna more, and ultimately the specialist consular health care is 150 million kuna more, which is actually all saying that these are the beginnings of the reforms that need to be implemented in health care. In doing so, he did not suffer from a hospital budget, and in this way we will actually direct patients to where they need to be, not in expensive hospital health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14619	Well, thank you very much. Well, the health care funds are crucial and I'm glad that here last week is the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen... We know that the issue of health care is in the Member States' domain, but it has also launched to move into the health union, that with 5 pillars that are just reacting to this crisis that we can cooperate better, we have more resources. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about funds, look at this envelope, we've had 900 million kuna health care, we've used a billion and 700. In the government's programme for the future envelope, 3 billion kuna has been put in. From the European Social Fund that not only are buildings and equipment, 208 specializations, 6. pays young doctors to stay in the Republic of Croatia. So, you know, we can certainly provide significant means to secure it, overcome this crisis and develop the health system in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14620	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14621	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, here comes the 3rd. the surplus, the return of the credit rating, the economic recovery, the increase in employment, we were struck by what hit us and, of course, the state did not manage well with its budgets the previous ones could neither help the economy nor the entrepreneurs. In my county alone, 2,000 entrepreneurs and 16 000 workers have benefited and benefited from this measure. But what I am interested in, and you will certainly know much better about how much of the impact on budget revenues will have on the withdrawal of funds from European funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14622	Thank you very much. So here you're right, we've already provided considerable resources just because we were the country's chairman, we knew about how much we'd get, we were involved in the process, and we could have gone very generously with the measures. 8 billion kunas only for employment, saved 600 thousand jobs. When we look at pre-crisis employment data, so 29.2. million and 542 thousand employees, 15.10. and 545 thousand, so 3 thousand more jobs within the crisis, employment rates are almost the same all year. So we showed that we saved 600,000 jobs with it, we used the presidency because we knew, we saved the credit rating, we entered the RNA2 mechanism, and despite this deficit that we have this year, which is going to be, I think at about 25 billion, if I remember correctly from the tables, we increased the credit rating. It's a success. these governments. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14623	The last replica of the distinguished representative Vesna Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14624	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I am pleased that in your presentation you have highlighted exactly the EU funds that will be dedicated to research and development, and therefore I still need to add that national funds should be highlighted and increased the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education for the next year by almost 2 billion more, i.e. growth of around 11.9%, especially those relating to salaries, wage insurance, doctorate and post-doctoranads employed in scientific and higher education institutions. And certainly reminding you that according to the strategic plan, the Croatian Foundation for Science aims to establish a whole system of careers of young researchers at the doctoral and post-doctoral level, so that around 200 to 250 PhDs can be employed at the annual level to achieve the desired stable level of about 800 PhDs per year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14625	Thank you very much for the replica and commentary, right here, as former scientific recruit, as well as former president of the Association of Young Scientists in the Republic of Croatia, I think the key is to invest in PhDs, in their development, on the one hand provide them with salaries, on the other hand provide them with education. One of the projects I've been pushing, unfortunately for Covid's sake, is not realized, but will be realized next year is that we are the 50 best young scientists in a public competition to be chosen, and who have ideas to open their own business and commercialize their scientific ideas, to take them to a bimonthly course of entrepreneurship in Cambridge where they will learn more of these skills, and after they return, from a new financial envelope to ensure that these ideas can be converted into entrepreneurship and to combine science and economy, I think there is one of our "gaps" that we need to close, and this one right over here. Such projects, that's what we're going to make possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14626	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14627	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of HS, the distinguished ministers with their associates. I kind of always want to be honest in some things in my discussions, so this way I will reiterate that Minister Maric is one of the few ministers in both the former government and this government who is with us all day and night. He's defending his laws, and he's defending this budget. Although our discussions are going in a direction, it would be much better if there were few state secretaries and ministers from some other portfolios, because we are all talking about some other resolutions, some other topics, Minister Maric only gathers it in one place and so when it comes to discussing our amendments, I suppose the Secretary of State or Ministers of State will come to say why these amendments are not very good and should not be accepted because I fear that even one amendment that we have given on behalf of the club will not be accepted. I would like to point out in particular, it is about the Ministry of Defence, where we have reduced the expenditure related to promotion to the 2020 level by so much we have increased in the same ministry with an item that is related to psychological assistance to defenders, I am almost certain that this amendment will not be accepted, and let's just say, it would be very good to be because it seems to be good. But I will focus this individual debate on two topics. One topic is an earthquake, and another topic is state property. When you enter and look at the strategy of development of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 and look at it well, it is in public debate and it is good to look at and read it and see what it is, then in this strategy says, there are about a million individual apartments, which business premises, which are different properties owned by the Republic of Croatia and this strategy says that it would be good to have these assets made and actually be done with it and managed. And then, in parallel with that, you look at our budget, I was one of the ones who said when she decided to set up an asset management ministry, no matter what I was on the opposition side, I said, it seems to me it's good because it shows the government stepping out and wanting to take care of its property. Unfortunately, I've come from several backgrounds because when you see this budget, then you see that different ministries or different central offices have the same state property in their portfolio, and so they deal with this state property, so you see these items in the Ministry of Defense, and then you see this item in the state property that the Central Office is dealing with, so a few of them are dealing with. Would it be logical, would it be normal, would it be too much, would it be reasonable, in one country, that when we already have, whether it's an independent ministry or together with the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, property, if all items were there. It is something that I see that might also be Minister Marić's tasks for some next budget to say, "My society, don't have me in different, on different items, let the management of state property really be in one portfolio, it will be simpler, it will be more operational, and there can also be rationalization there, but I'm afraid it will remain at the level of good wishes. Another topic I want to take advantage of by the end of this debate is the City of Zagreb Reconstruction Fund and two counties. When the law was passed then it was said that the fund should be established within a month, of course it wasn't, but that's less important. What we see in this budget is more important. We see that on the financial item, funding is related to the fund somewhere around 900 million kuna, which wouldn't be a problem at all if we didn't see that it's about the budget, and right from the budget of 245 million kuna, not to see that this remains related to the EU's welcome assistance, but to rebuilding the public purpose building. In order for the buildings to be refurbished, we didn't need the law, we didn't need the fund, they could already be renewed, they could be restored by the criteria of who manages the buildings. And it's convenient to compare it with the Agency for Legal Traffic where 263 million kuna is intended for real estate subsidies, which is actually about the policy of this government. That's where we subsidize. and see the result quickly, but the fund will have a little money and reconstruction not that it won't last 10 years, it'll last 100 years. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14628	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. I agree with those colleagues and colleagues who pointed out before me that the budget should show a certain strategic direction because this is not only a draft budget but also a projection for the next few years, and it should actually be very clear where the government is going. There's no direction, that's no wonder, because in 2020, We are talking about billions of EUR available to us and this is good news, but without any national and clear strategy. The national development strategy is only currently in public consultation. So we're going somewhere, we have, we're super equipped, but we don't really know where we're going, we don't have certain priorities. However, this is not surprising because even if we had it, it does not mean that it would not be a dead letter on paper such as the many strategies brought by this or the former government, but regardless of which government it adopted, most of these strategies had to be adopted because they were ex-ant conditions for starting withdrawing funds from European funds. Because you, in order to withdraw anything and to invest the EU in Croatia behind these plans, must stand the seriousness of the political decision, and you must prove through your national objectives to the EU that you contribute to European objectives which is equalising inequality, the development of certain parts, etc., etc. I'm just going to mention some of the strategies that are not implemented at all or being carried out poorly. It's a national gender equality policy that's five years old at all. It doesn't exist. Implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programmes in the government's 14,500 000 kuna office, my colleague Bencic mentioned, I think the government's office, the prime minister said this morning, so he does not implement the government's office. Well, it doesn't, but it's the government's office that has to promote principles, which must be media-related to promoting not only certain strategies but also problems in society, but this one is very clear, so we have media articles that talk enough about fighting corruption and why these funds are so miserable. Also supporting the fight against hate crimes and combating discrimination is, for example, about 81 or not around 81,590 kuna. We do not have a problem in Croatia with hate speech, it is not a problem, it should not be promoted, the fight, the importance of fighting these phenomena in Croatian society. Also, the strategy against poverty in the government's 13500 kuna office is not surprising. Here, the review a month ago told us that the Strategy against Poverty and Social Exclusion, which is extremely important at this very moment of crisis, in fact the government gave up two measures, and the other measures are not being implemented at all. So without clear strategies, even with strategies, these EU money will not mean much to us, and in the education system, it is worth even less. Why do I say that? So the ineffectiveness of this government and administrative obstacles we are on track to destroy the only thing that may have worked in the mandate of previous Minister Divjak and this government, which are centres of competence and this small shift in the system of vocational education. And why is that? There we have received 1.8 billion kunas are secured from 2 European funds for 25 schools from 19 cities. School advances have arrived at schools worth a million, half a million kuna, but until today, from 5 months to today, it has not been decent to say in what way these funds will be paid or used, how to finance these salaries, we say at meetings in 2019. It will be funded by the COP, so you will return it to the state budget. However, there are no clear instructions to this day. So let's get some people serious. If we are talking about budget projections here, budget projections for this year, projections for the following, the billions at our disposal, so let's not let the muddyness and incompetence and what little is worth, and what's important for linking the labour market, economy and education, you have listed in the National Reform Programme, this morning the prime minister said that this is the focus between the other and this budget, give it to unblock certain processes, make clear instructions to schools and let what we don't have in our budget, and it will also contribute to the opening of jobs and a better education system, increased integration with the labour market, do not stand and not be blocked from those who should facilitate that path to these European money. And if Mr. Pavic ever hears from you again here for debate, I don't have the right to reply, but I'm really going to get a nervous breakdown because this is something where I'm asking him to appeal to the Ministry of Finance and Education to unblock this, and then let him tell us stories about the billions that are waiting for us in the coming years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14630	We have one replica of Honorable Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14632	I want Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14633	My colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14634	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14635	Yeah, I'm not Pavic, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14636	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14637	So...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14638	What about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14639	You're fine, you've noticed there's a lot of shortcomings in school, but it's not the only thing you've mentioned, but I'd like to make those arguments. In fact, if you see that there is a missing item to encourage technical culture as outside of teaching activities, that they have been reduced, but the symbolic means for working with gifted students have been reduced, as the amount has already been said and for assistants in the follow-up for children with difficulties, that they have been reduced or that at a symbolic level the funds are designed to prevent violence in schools and to prevent violence in sport, that they are reduced or at a symbolic level means for extracurricular activities in primary schools, secondary schools and high schools, then we can really say that the budget, at least in the part of education, is not stagnating but reversing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14640	Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. And when you look at the small indices of other ministries compared to the Ministry of Education, I fear the Ministry of Education, but not the Ministry of Education but children, the future of Croatia is the biggest losers of this budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to what you mentioned, you did not mention another illogicality, which is that, to stagnate the means for professional training of educational staff in the system of primary schools and secondary schools. Why does it matter? Because we see today government announcements that we're going to service the measures caused by Covid-19, that the school plans to switch to model B, if they're not able to secure model B goes to C, it's again on the line teaching. At this very moment, it is very important to re-enhancing educational workers for what is waiting for us, and we do not know how far these unfavourable conditions and abnormal conditions will follow us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14641	Next replica, distinguished representative Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14642	Dear colleagues, you touched part of the education system, and then it tickled me and I can't disagree, and I can't share my opinion. In fact, the official, official report of the University of Zagreb recently came out where at the promotion of science doctors from the university was reported just like this, 5 doctors from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, 2 doctors from engineering, 4 from economics, 5 doctors and 76 from the Faculty of Philosophy. This is an eclectic example of non-transparent and unintended spending of money at the University of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14643	Thank you, Mr. Vrkljan. Well, it also shows the deficit of maybe these most educated people right in the professions that we need. But that is why there is no lack of honorary doctorates that Mr. Covic, the president of the HDZ BiH, and also Mr. Milan Bandic, a faithful partner, a coalition partner of the HDZ, does not miss this, such lewdness. And there is also no lack of blasphemy, or shame that for years, we have ranked Zagreb University amongst, at the bottom of the scales of the most quality and the worst in Europe and the world. There, but that's, that's... Croatian tragedies, but not only the tragedy of film but also Croatian, Croatian reality. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14644	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14645	In front of us... Then someone else was on fire. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman. Today we have a budget for the Republic of Croatia, and when I get a little bit more into the health care issue, I can say that one thing has entered my eyes, and that's probably what the finance minister is going to think about. From the health budget 50 million kuna since then on the items “other expenditures”. Interestingly, a poor country like Croatia can afford to be 50 million kuna in the items "other expenditures". We know that health care has been devastated, and I've talked about it many times in the last few months, I'm not going to repeat it, but it's definitely human, organisational and financial devastated. But what worries me more is that in the last two months, health care has made 2 billion kunas of new debt, which now stands at 12 billion kunas and the direction of health is definitely guilty and not the one that should be. On what basis did I conclude that? I'll show you ministers a few examples of how to fill our budget, and partly how to charge our health budget. I was talking about the fact that insurance companies in Croatia are incomeing €220 million a year on the basis of insurance, car insurance with the possibility of injury or injury, we have 10,000 injuries per year, and insurance companies in HZZO pay 48.4 million kuna, which is exactly 170 million kuna less than what insurance houses keep to themselves, which is definitely an example of an unfair contract in which insurance houses earn much more profits. Then companies without employees. Last year, 26 billion kuna were paid in Croatia, they have no employee and they have not paid in the budget on the basis of any kuna or pension insurance, and at the same time the proposal for a new law reduced their income tax from 20 to 10%. When we look at this new budget proposal, then we see that the legal obligation that the budget or government, the owner of the insurance company, HZZO, reduces its share from 2.9 to 2.7 billion kuna, which will further impoverish healthcare. What are the consequences? The consequences are that, if you have followed in the budget, the National Transplant Programme is reduced by 30%, that the Fund for Expensive Medicines is also reduced significantly and that the direction HZZO finances the health system is completely blamed, so that a large part of the money flows towards hospitals and not according to primary health care where the cheapest health care is and where money could be used best. This lack of understanding of the health system is best seen in a statement given a few days ago by ministers and a health administration where they say that we will now start measuring the outcomes of the treatment. Of course, treatment outcomes are not measured. A colleague of mine would beg if you at least talk to me if you let me have my peace to finish, not speak so loudly. Hey, buddy from town, don't be so loud 'cause I can't talk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14646	Please be quiet. Allow your colleagues, ma'am. Voter, please allow your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14647	Therefore, treatment outcomes are not measured, treatment outcomes are monitored, and to tell my fellow citizen Lichan, Nikola Tesla, it is not for me that they steal my ideas but for me that they have no ideas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14648	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14649	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, esteemed Croatian Deputy Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. 2021 C.E. for which this budget is complex is a year of uncertainty from the one relating to the Covid-19 pandemic to the one relating to the economy, especially tourism. But regardless of this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to disburse our citizens and entrepreneurs further, we are going with another package of tax reform that we can see in this budget, so from 2017 to 2021 our citizens will be relieved of more than 10 billion kuna. Of course, the great opportunity is right in the European funds, as in those at our disposal, from 2014 to 2020, amounting to EUR 10.7 billion and up to now 41% has been withdrawn, 122% announced, 103% agreed, which says there is no reason to in the next 3rd g. will not be fully withdrawn. Of course, in the next period from 2020 to '27. We have what grants are available, which is worth EUR 22 billion. In the 2021 budget, we have the revenue from the aid planned in the amount of €24.8 billion, in '22. 25.4 and '23. 21.5 billion kuna. It's interesting to see how the funds have been withdrawn so far. In the revenue of the State budget for the period from 2019 to '23, We see 23% more withdrawn in this year than in the year before, as we plan over 30% more to pull it back in '21. compared to this '20s. which was also successful compared to the previous period. When we talk about the expenditures of the state budget, we see that the subsidies in this year were 86% more than they were in 2019, and the total expenditure will be higher in the following year than in the '20s. Thanks to the various expenditures that are increased by those for primary and secondary education staff, social assistance, benefits, pensions and pension incomes, additional parental leave and the like. Let us note that in the previous period the government raised and raised pensions by 306 kuna or a minimum of 223, which is twice as much as in the mandate of the previous three governments. They also announced an increase in pensions by 5%, and this increase was from 12% to 15%. Parenting fees have been raised for 3,000 kunas, compensation for parents of fosterers for 1500 kunas, the income threshold for child allowance has been increased by 665 kuna, the personal disability of social care for 250 kunas and so on, which says enough that this government is both this budget and socially sensitive. Since I come from the area where we all live from tourism and tourism and there have been a lot of problems with training in the tourism and catering sector. That's where I'd like our citizens to know that when we look under the projects that will be allocated to the funds, it's for example. to strengthen excellence and attractiveness, the attractiveness of structural education and training in the tourism and catering sector in '21. projected 3 million and 960 kuna to make more in the next one, even in '23. Five million kunas. When it comes to the establishment of regional centres of competence for vocational education in tourism and catering, as much as 78 million kuna, in '22. 127, '23. 119 million kuna. All of us who are by the sea know what problem our islanders have when it comes to emergency maritime medical services and for the establishment of exactly such a service by fast boats was set aside in '21. The plan is to single out over 12 million kunas, in '22. Over 25 million kuna. Of course, and the specialist training of doctor medicine is something we're interested in. Here we have in the next period over 26 million, then 36, then 40 million, etc. When it comes to my Vodice, I am pleased to see you in the program of Croatian Waters a project from European funds that is listed exactly as a project for the construction of a sewer system. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you. Thank you, well-respected Vice President, esteemed Croatian Deputy Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. 2021 C.E. for which this budget is complex is a year of uncertainty from the one relating to the Covid-19 pandemic to the one relating to the economy, especially tourism. But regardless of this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to disburse our citizens and entrepreneurs further, we are going with another package of tax reform that we can see in this budget, so from 2017 to 2021 our citizens will be relieved of more than 10 billion kuna. Of course, the great opportunity is right in the European funds, as in those at our disposal, from 2014 to 2020, amounting to EUR 10.7 billion and up to now 41% has been withdrawn, 122% announced, 103% agreed, which says there is no reason to in the next 3rd g. will not be fully withdrawn. Of course, in the next period from 2020 to '27. We have what grants are available, which is worth EUR 22 billion. In the 2021 budget, we have the revenue from the aid planned in the amount of €24.8 billion, in '22. 25.4 and '23. 21.5 billion kuna. It's interesting to see how the funds have been withdrawn so far. In the revenue of the State budget for the period from 2019 to '23, We see 23% more withdrawn in this year than in the year before, as we plan over 30% more to pull it back in '21. compared to this '20s. which was also successful compared to the previous period. When we talk about the expenditures of the state budget, we see that the subsidies in this year were 86% more than they were in 2019, and the total expenditure will be higher in the following year than in the '20s. Thanks to the various expenditures that are increased by those for primary and secondary education staff, social assistance, benefits, pensions and pension incomes, additional parental leave and the like. Let us note that in the previous period the government raised and raised pensions by 306 kuna or a minimum of 223, which is twice as much as in the mandate of the previous three governments. They also announced an increase in pensions by 5%, and this increase was from 12% to 15%. Parenting fees have been raised for 3,000 kunas, compensation for parents of fosterers for 1500 kunas, the income threshold for child allowance has been increased by 665 kuna, the personal disability of social care for 250 kunas and so on, which says enough that this government is both this budget and socially sensitive. Since I come from the area where we all live from tourism and tourism and there have been a lot of problems with training in the tourism and catering sector. That's where I'd like our citizens to know that when we look under the projects that will be allocated to the funds, it's for example. to strengthen excellence and attractiveness, the attractiveness of structural education and training in the tourism and catering sector in '21. projected 3 million and 960 kuna to make more in the next one, even in '23. Five million kunas. When it comes to the establishment of regional centres of competence for vocational education in tourism and catering, as much as 78 million kuna, in '22. 127, '23. 119 million kuna. All of us who are by the sea know what problem our islanders have when it comes to emergency maritime medical services and for the establishment of exactly such a service by fast boats was set aside in '21. The plan is to single out over 12 million kunas, in '22. Over 25 million kuna. Of course, and the specialist training of doctor medicine is something we're interested in. Here we have in the next period over 26 million, then 36, then 40 million, etc. When it comes to my Vodice, I am pleased to see you in the program of Croatian Waters a project from European funds that is listed exactly as a project for the construction of a sewer system. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14651	We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic. Mr. Vrkljan, please turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14652	Now it's okay, thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I am pleased that in your debate, you referred to the part of the budget relating to the increase in pensions, the increase in minimum wage and the part that speaks of its development, but also social sensitivity. I will only remind you when it comes to the system of science and education, in particular the system of education that is scheduled for next year, the funds are provided to increase the coefficient or salary allowance to teaching staff by an additional 2% since 1 January 2021. As agreed. And equally when it comes to social sensitivity, especially for our students and students in the education system, let us not forget to grant scholarships to lower socio-economic status students, students studying in the high field. Again, as I said before, projects to develop the careers of young researchers etc. in total increase, so Only this part socioeconomic of 145 million for next year. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14653	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14654	Thank you very much. My colleague Bedekovic, I was just saying how much increased pensions are, and as far as salaries are concerned, the minimum wage has been increased by 30% and 754 kuna net, which is 3 times more than in the mandate of the three previous governments. The measures and the average salary increased by 1147 kuna and 20% respectively, which is 6 times higher than in the SDP government's mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14655	The latest replica is Honorable representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14656	Exactly the opposite, my colleague. I want to say that the pensions didn't grow in the term of that government that you speak of for no lime, not for a single lime. They are indexed according to the formula used in 100 g. in this country. It was simply by indexing what you call an increase. The peace haven't been increased, period.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14657	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14658	A colleague, I would say, has increased pensions by 5% by the end of Prime Minister Plenkovic's term and increased further 12 and 15%, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14659	Thank you. The next individual debate was respected, MP Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14660	... Why, why won't I vote for the draft budget and why won't I even put any amendments on it? [[Speaker not enabled]] It's simply because I think that conceptually here something, something is seriously a problem. In the spring of the epidemic and when the government adopted its review of this measure in March, it happened that 63 measures were taken and that only of those 63 measures that were taken, only two, 21 and 22 measures were related to what we could call social measures. At the same time that this was done, there was a budget rebalance on May 18th when social security expenditures were reduced not only for those 350 million kunas that were untraceablely missing from the Rehabilitation and Employment Fund but in social protection positions around 108 million were less paid. At the same time, when the government thus introduced or adapted its measures in the field of social policy to the economy, at the same time, even after the outbreak of the covid pandemic, as many as 126 countries introduced or adapted their measures in the area of social policy, new 505 measures were introduced, new 130 financial measures were introduced in response to the crisis, a network of social security spread to various social groups that would not have the right to help in the earlier period. Through the release of directorial costs, the issue of child care vouchers, a moratorium on the repayment of loans, financial assistance, etc. has been introduced in many countries, etc. So, in that same period when, when most of the world and Europe recognized that they were just the most vulnerable social groups, the ones that would be most affected by this pandemic, we reacted completely, I would say, one autistic way. I expected this budget to show that what might not have been recognized then, that it would be visible from the budget that's being made for next year or someone thinks it's a pandemic, a pandemic over, a done thing that doesn't need to concern us anymore. I remind you that today 49 people died of the pandemic. Imagine if we had, God forbid, a car crash and that 50 people died in a train crash, and then the day before that, so many more and so many more. We've lost people, we're hundreds, hundreds of people have died in the last two weeks. We're acting, looking at documents like this, like nothing really happens in that sense, lockdown, closing down the economy. What kind of repercusion that's going to have to be at the very social most, that's hard for me and for me at this point in time to imagine. Even this Ursula von der Leyen, who is no Social Democrats, said at one point Europe should be ready to act in a way that no sector is neglected, the EU must not be locked up in its economic discourse and must speak out loud about the social dimension of the crisis, be close to people in need and address many long-term problems of people close to the line of poverty who meet the needs of people dependent on their care and available assistance. When we look at what it means, what Europe is doing, then what we can now read in the budget is exactly the opposite of that. So one of the few positions that is seriously decreasing is that we have a reduction in social protection from 60 billion 537 million to 57 billion and 900 for next year, which is about 4.5%. In the position of unemployment, for example, half of the resources, well included are these funds that went as aid, but we must expect the consequences of the crisis to be so much greater next year if we do not prevent them and recognize them even in this budget that you can say that the rebalancing... And that's how this one, but that's not what it is right now. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14661	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Mato Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14662	Dear Vice President HS, the Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. At the beginning of this debate, I would like to highlight the fact that the crown of the RS crisis has been found in one of the most demanding financial moments since the Homeland War. But thanks to the previous four-year term of this government crisis we have welcomed ready. We don't have what happened during the economic crisis 10 years ago. The number of people at the Employment Service does not increase dramatically, although this was to be expected in view of the economy, and especially tourism has recorded unprecedented losses since the Homeland War to date. It is precisely thanks to numerous government measures, the support of businessmen, the separation of part of financial incomes to numerous employees, that the government has ensured that many families can welcome the end of the month as stable as possible. At the same time, all these measures have significantly helped the economic operators themselves, and we do not record the society’s decommissioning epidemic due to the total loss of economic activity that some companies recorded in 2020. And despite everything, I repeat once again, the billions of paid money in the private sector is a stable state budget. The stability of the state budget was also confirmed a few days ago by the international rating agency Moody's, which raised Croatia's one-degree rating, and highlighted the strengthened institutional capacities and political framework at entering the key stage of Eurozone accession and reducing foreign government debt exposure. The measures taken to mitigate the effects of the coronary pandemic were timely and effective. Croatia will continue to implement social, fair, economic policy according to Moody's assessment. Taking into account all of the above, but not only that, but the fact that from the Homeland War to the present day none, but no government has had as many challenges as the government led by Andrej Plenkovic, from the collapse of Agrokor and the rapid reaction of the government that immediately followed, and the fact is that at that time, numerous economies were saved, and especially small OPGs, which no one today can disprove, the financial problems of the Uljaniks, 3. In May, the health corona crisis, the earthquake in Zagreb, and despite all of the above, the government manages to maintain financial stability and increase credit ratings. What is important is highlighted in this budget, and through the debate was highlighted as negative, and these are European funds. Yes, a significant part of the budget is based on European funds. Rightly so, it is the European money that needs to be encouraged to further develop the Croatian economy. European money needs to be encouraged by capital and infrastructure investments and this cannot be a difficult circumstance for this government. That's exactly the plus that resulted in successful negotiations in Brussels. I also have to thank the Minister of Finance on behalf of JLS because our needs have been recognized. Unscathed loans to local self-government have helped many JLS to survive, but not only to survive but also to help their economies and their residents through their help. It's known that JLS cannot be in charge of craftsmanship. It is precisely the unscathed loans that receive the necessary crafts. Finally, of course, I would like to thank the government for its financial support and help important projects in the city of Dubrovnik in 2021. There I would certainly single out the Lapac project worth more than 70 million kuna, Velika Zaton-Stikovica road worth 27 million kuna, Dubrovnik Agglomeration worth as much as 900 million kuna, Villa Chingrija Regional Competence Centre worth more than 100 million kuna, Riva island Kolocep 22 million kuna and 65 apartments for defenders worth as 44 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14663	Thank you, too. Now, but you have replicas, Mr. Branko Bacic's first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14664	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Frankovic, this year's tourist season has had its echo or reduction... Indicators in Dubrovnik City and Dubrovnik-Neretva County somewhere at 80% level. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Despite such figures, as far as I have information, the city of Dubrovnik has already brought its budget for 2021. with significantly and clearly lower revenues compared to earlier years. But what's good, what you said yourself, is that the government intervened with unscathed loans, especially according to your JLS. What I wanted to say in this replica, which is what you finally confirmed, is big projects financed from the state budget, and a few days ago a decision was made just to approach the construction of the Aglomeration of the city of Dubrovnik of about 900 million kuna. So, with all these projects and despite the reduced revenues of the city of Dubrovnik, we are recording in the city of great investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14665	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14666	Thank you. So no government has ever helped Dubrovnik as much as this government and the previous government of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic has. Many projects have already been implemented, since schools, kindergartens, sports courts in the city of Dubrovnik. But what you said is important for the prominent, no city in the Republic of Croatia has recorded such bad tourist season as Dubrovnik. And it's not the fault of the city of Dubrovnik. The fact is that the advantage of the city of Dubrovnik for many years was that the city of Dubrovnik was exclusively a plane destination, now it was a difficult circumstance. We believe the rapid return of tourism and, of course, the rapid recovery of the Dubrovnik economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14667	Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14668	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Frankovic, you mentioned in your presentation only an increase in credit ratings by Moody's. I would point out exactly the international financial position of the Republic of Croatia, you are a bit of a secret you colleagues from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, you did not mention, but here I will mention, there is a budget for the city of Dubrovnik, to take the budget of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If today without such a rating and without such a financial position and without the EU funds you mentioned were able to restore and build airports such as Dubrovnik, Split, Zagreb, not to mention the completion of the Pelješko bridge and there are growing infrastructure projects, but the very way you are today even able to participate as mayor of a significant city of Dubrovnik that you can even participate in today's budget debate is precisely from these items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14669	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14670	The stability of public finances is the most important, important and is seen through a single country's credit rating right now. We witnessed during the SDP government that the credit rating of Croatia was junk. You know what that means? This means much more expensive interest for both the population and the economy, but also for the JLS. Just thanks to good governance and money from this government and the past government of Prime Minister Plenkovic and interest on the economy, interest rates on the population, the JLS interest rates were falling drastically, and even now in this crown the crisis when JLS's debts are in debt at extremely low interest rates. So, arranged finances are equally arranged society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14671	And finally, Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14672	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Frankovic, you are one successful mayor of the city of Dubrovnik, I believe you will also be in the next elections. You've done a lot of things and now your debate compared to what we heard in the opposition is simply a big difference. So you thanked the government for a number of projects that were supported by the minister, etc., which it did for local self-government. That's what I'm going to do because I know what we've been through in these years, but we've heard from the other side of those who dispute it. Just one question to you, let's say the importance of the issue that's being put here today, our national air transport. What does it mean to the city of Dubrovnik and to you as mayor, every citizen living in that county, so that these people here understand why the state is helping that air carrier survive? Here, people need to hear this because this is going directly to people, that citizens are watching it because it's just so disproportionate between this view of opposition to this budget and us ruling that we're trying and we're bringing ourselves into question, is this really nothing right? how they represent it today. [[/Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14673	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14674	So, respected counterpart Boris and I, personally, may have been skeptical of our national carrier some year ago. In the moments of the crown of the crisis, or after that, when the first wave, I apologize, when the economy began to recover, when tourism started, it went everywhere except in Dubrovnik, which is aviation. You know when he left? When Croatia airlines began its flight from Frankfurt. So, at that point, they start opening hotels, restaurants and the like. There are cities in the Republic of Croatia which are road destinations, have highways, have everything, respect, but there is a city, certainly the most recognizable of all cities in the world, which is Dubrovnik which has exclusively air transport and on which it depends, therefore the function of Croatia airlines is extremely, extremely important.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14675	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14676	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, he was here now with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, on next year's budget has already been said very much. I will devote most of my debates to the Dubrovnik-Neretva County from which I am from, but before that I will say a few words about this budget which, as we have already mentioned on several occasions, the economic recovery budget of the year in which we are bringing about the year in which we are witnessing an unmarked crisis in the world caused by the many times mentioned by Covid 19 pandemic. Despite the fact that we are recording a decline in state budget revenue from the state budget this year will focus on Croatia's economy of around 8 billion kuna, and next year, with an estimated 5% GDP growth for such same purposes, which is support to the job-preservation economy will be almost 2.2 billion kuna. And in that year in which we plan to grow GDP compared to 2020, I would certainly single out this fifth round of tax reform, which will further relieve the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens by a billion and 600 million kuna, with this budget, is as high as we charge both the economy and the Croatian citizens will transform or transfer to local self-government units a billion and 600 million kuna. So, here the government shows with this budget that further discharge of Croatian citizens will be units of local self-government that will suffer from these lower incomes, less revenue, will be compensated by this budget at the same level of disbursement of Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. What I would also like to mention, which I have already mentioned in the opening and said, I would especially highlight the importance of this budget for my county where I come from. In the budget, the state budget as well as the financial plans of the Croatian Roads clearly shows the activities at the completion of the building of the Pelješka bridge, access roads and bypasses of the Stone of over a billion and 200 million kuna, which in almost 75% would be necessary for the construction of the Pelješka bridge and access roads of the Stone bypass. In this way, it is clear that the construction of the Pelješka bridge will make a significant contribution to the economic recovery and further development of the south of Croatia, primarily Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik Primorje, Zupa Dubrovnik, Konaval, but above all, Pelješac and the island of Korčula, Lastova and Mljet, which are situated on the Peljesac peninsula. What besides this project for me is the most important project in this period when Croatia became a member of the EU and will mark the first year of Croatia's membership in the EU I would specifically single out further activities of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure in the construction of the port system in my county, Dubrovnik-Neretva County, where we are currently developing 8 major projects. One of these projects was mentioned earlier by a colleague Frankovic, which is the construction of a new port of Korčula, the construction of a maritime and passenger terminal in Veli Luka, the construction of a new port, the construction of the port of Ubli, the construction of the port of Trpanj, the construction of the new port of Perna in Orebić, and the construction of the port of Kolocep. So also the Lapad coast that he was talking about earlier, so in that part more than 600 million kuna is currently being developed in the construction of a port system in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Therefore, all these projects will certainly contribute to the revitalisation of the island because these ports are primarily intended for the maritime connection of the island of Dubrovnik-Neretva County which are, which are in the far south. Therefore, what I can and will conclude by doing so in these conditions in which we are recording a decline in economic activity for this year in which we are 8%, of 9%, of 8%, I apologize in the next year in which we are going to start, and hopefully the economy we see that the government understands the needs of local self-government and in this way, measures and articles of the state budget encourage the development of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14677	Thank you very much. You have several replicas, the first replica of Mr. Named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14678	My dear colleague, you have several times mentioned 8 billion kunas that you have helped Croatian citizens pay out of 4,000 kuna, these are the money that you received directly from Europe and you are still part of that money to pay in the budget, and when you talk about the problems this government has solved, this government has solved some problems so that it is in debt. What is crucial is the question of where she was in charge and from whom, and according to the knowledge I have, she re-indebted herself with Croatian citizens so that these same Croatian citizens would return the loans they themselves gave. Why do I say that? Because the Croatian government is in charge of pension funds and the CNB. That's what's true how this government solved the problems. There, and now I have 6 Seconds More [[Intruder: Thank you, answer.]] I'm just saying, this isn't as happy land as I thought last time, it's the super-prehic's yard. [[- I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14679	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14680	I thank my colleague Brumnic, I'm not this last part, I apologize, I didn't, I didn't hear and I didn't understand, but it doesn't matter, the more important part seems to me the first part I heard. Therefore, the fact is that according to Eurostat's data, the Republic of Croatia in this covid crisis has exposed itself to its real sector by financing almost every other job with a amount of 4000 kuna, with a clear release of contributions, after Malta, most of all from all EU Member States, not in absolute terms, is not our economy German, not French, not Italian or, or anyone else, but in relation to, to, to, to, to, to, to the height of its budget, the highest in percentage. The fact that she is in charge of this on the domestic market and this is talking about the possibility of the Republic of Croatia funding that and that the government is in debt right on the domestic market, and that's what I think supplemental. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14681	Thank you very much. We've been over 11 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14682	And I'm sorry, I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14683	But you will be able to rephrase Mr. Branki Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14684	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you were talking about the latest package of tax reforms and what it will mean for our citizens and businessmen. I would just say that by amending the Tax on Profits Act, which will reduce the rate from 12% will cover as much as 93% of our entrepreneurs, which is very good and should be known to the Croatian public what number is involved when it comes to all those whose income is up to 7.5 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14685	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14686	I thank my fellow Martinchev, and here I am just going to finish this line as suggested by the vice president of the assembly. So, the fact is that this borrowing was also due to the improvement of Croatia's credit rating on the domestic market at never lower interest rates. So, that, the fact that we can be in debt at such low interest is the biggest compliment to this government because if public finances hadn't been settled, if we hadn't recorded the surplus of the state budget for years, if we hadn't cut the public debt, then we'd only know how and how we'd be in debt and then we'd have to be forced out on a much bigger interest rate, which would have indirectly resulted in a significant increase in the cost, cost or expenditure of the state budget on the item, on the interest item. I don't have time for you, but I've been saying it the last time about, that part that applies, how much we're just gonna pay less interest this year for improving credit ratings. And colleagues, you're right, so 90%, 93% of all entrepreneurs in Croatia, their profit tax rate was reduced to 10%, when we took responsibility was 20%.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14687	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14688	Thank you. Dear colleague Bacic, one question. Whether the JLS budgets will be cut off in income tax revenues due to a reduction in income tax rates because it is nevertheless cca. 2 billion kuna? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14689	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14690	I thank my colleague, Begonja, you are an extremely successful mayor and your question is right and set. Therefore, it would be suggestive and ominous to the government to reduce the tax audit on the item that threatens the revenue side of the JLS budget. However, during these 4 rounds of tax reforms, income tax rates have been reduced on several occasions, personal deductions have been increased, all of which went to JLS's burden together. And to this, and in this 5, 5, the 5th round, the 5th wave of tax reform, reducing the rates, the revenues of JLS are reduced. In both earlier reforms and in this reform, this amount of state cuts tax and income tax for Croatian citizens on the other hand compensates with, with, from the state budget directly to JLS, so that they will not feel on their backs this, these 5th round of tax reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14691	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14692	Thank you very much. When we talk about interest, we remember the opposition when you and I were, there was a SDP finance minister who told us that every interest is good if someone wanted to give us this money, no. It was a much better time than this maybe today we live in, so then we said the interest of 6-7 is okay, just let them give us. That's when the public debt grew by 75 as many as billions of kunas, and that was good for them. Now that we're better, it's no good. But the story goes in a way that no matter what you do, nothing's right, and you've seen all the discussions, bad. The second story, a billion and 600 million you mentioned income tax, we take local self-government for those rates, and we return, everything says inside. Has that worked yet? It's me who has experience that works. What we had back then, we remember at the end of 2015.? They took our money and gave us nothing back and went away nicely from power and told someone else to worry about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14693	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14694	I thank my colleague, Boric, that you know very well how the local self-government worked and how important it is that, that tax reforms are not broken through JLS, given that almost every year, new commitments are coming down from the central state to the JLS, and this has often not been followed by financial decentralisation. And this example, as well as numerous examples in the last 5 years. suggest that the government takes great care of the JLS status through both functional and fiscal decentralisation. But when you mentioned the loans, I remember the absurds, we worked together while we were in the EIB 3 loan government, which was specifically intended for JLS to solve both municipal and social infrastructures. When the SDP government came, the loan was lifted, eventually raised a new loan allegedly to help regulate social, social care in the Republic of Croatia, a loan without, without any purpose, for no purpose, was eventually spent. Therefore, as much as and in how and how to access state finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14695	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Josip Boric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14696	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. The state budget for 2021 with projections for 2022, '23, we heard today debate on a political document that had been concluded by colleagues from the SDP and indeed a really political document covered all areas on 1,100 pages I think several thousand activities, probably really readable to read and of course we each have a chance to find the one small one that he has enough to say, here's not enough for that money activity and I won't vote for that budget. And so here in the morning we really listened to the good, good debate because obviously the history that I remember for at least the last 20 years has always been the government defending its budget and policies, saying that it will happen, and it's always been against it, and I don't remember in fact that none of them have passed, probably then the government wouldn't, as far as I remember, be gone, not because it has to survive the government, but simply because this is a good document in which I paint the policies in the next year. What we want to do in 2021 from all the sources and possibilities we have. A state from European funds, out of assistance provided naturally and through the contribution of citizens. What kind of words are used here today? Mostly it all starts with no, undeveloped, unsocial, unfair, irrational, so then it's bad and no ideas, I remembered it, no ideas. Now how do you describe that the budget is without ideas? He says there's nothing, there's no measure, there's no idea, and there's thousands and thousands of activities and items inside, but I'm saying everyone found a reason especially for those who have or were members of those associations where there's nothing, no items, no descriptions, they know what it looks like transparently. And, of course, we had the chance to listen to it, because I think it's most likely that there was a colleague from the club who compared this country of ours where we live with a country that wears torn shoes, that we're always the worst, the last in all the statistics. He didn't say when we were first, by which criteria, we remember sports and some activities where we were both second and third, but first, I don't remember why we said in torn shoes, worst of all, to be convincing because everyone else wears polished good shoes with good soles, we're the only ones who are the worst, then compare us to Bulgaria, Romania, Slovakia, etc. and he never said the truth to the end, he said that they had recently entered from us into an EU, and then he offered a solution, says let's get out of that EU, we will not be EUR.../incomprehensible/... we will not be able to offer everything that can be offered as funds from European funds, we are always paying more than we get, and of course we are the ones who offer Croatia to walk in such lactated shoes when all that he has offered is achieved, to stay alone against everyone, I guess, and to say how nice we are in our country and without any shame. And now I don't know who can believe it, in which way you believe that we don't need this 20 billion next year. Then we have these experts from the MOST, an independent researcher of the bush and a statisticist of the Bull. Well, that man doesn't believe what they're saying here today. He says we should declare the exclusive economic belt and all Croatia's problems solved. It's our contribution to you gentlemen in power, to solve everything with 300 million kunas, everything, all the dubiosis, drugstores, health care, education, military, defense, police, everything, just listen to us at the Most and their statistics. Well, it's a man who doesn't believe. And then they say I saw that they wrote one of the 60 amendments, says the budget is too big, but I guess to be feasible then we'll add another 10 billion amendments because it's our job to make it even better. And of course then they take care of my island, the offer of road that's finished, the drain that's been arranged, they'll talk about it, they're and they're amendments from last year, etc., etc. In my view, the 147 billion largest income and expenditure item so far, obviously we have to make an effort to make this happen. The deficit 10 billion now with, let's say the country we're looking at, with a longing to look at those surpluses we had last year, but 10 billion less I didn't make it. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14697	I already, I already thought you wouldn't have a replica, but I think it will be, 20 seconds from the end you didn't have a replica, but then it would be the first time, not now no. And on what, so you weren't, well come on, let's go, okay, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, [[I'm silent now.]] Here you go. Yeah, somebody's had an injury, okay, I'm a replica. [[Who is it now? We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. .../]] Here you go, but he's here, he's here, and, uh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14698	Dear counterpart Boris, you have injured Article 238, I have found no solution for all Croatian problems, but substantial financial resources by declaring the IGP, seeking compensation from Serbia and paying money to the Fami Media by HDZ in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14699	Thank you, too. You know it was a replica and it's a reminder. I'm sorry, and now we're going to the replicas. [[I can't talk anymore.]] Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14700	Dear Mr. Boric, it's hard actually to sum up now what you've all said to your fascination is that the budget on 1,000 pages, that there are thousands and thousands of items, so the fascination with the fact that it's the biggest so far because it's necessarily some apparent good thing, and it's actually talking about, at least to me, that you haven't analyzed it, or looked at it well, but that you actually came here to actually talk about it exclusively to praise your party, although you don't know exactly what you're talking about. However, you have, of course, offended those of us who have made an effort to analyse this budget and to make amendments not to make any more points, because the amendments do not necessarily increase the number of items, nor are new ones introduced necessarily, but they change or re-apply already existing ones. This is what we wanted to contribute to, that this budget has at least such a contribution to the strategic development objectives of the Republic of Croatia because forgive this one has nothing to do with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14701	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14702	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues, Bencic, I listen to your debate and the money we need to get from the recycling of plastics that was your solution, as much as you said, 300 million kunas, we immediately have free meals etc., etc., that you know something about it and that you live this life with that plastic daily and what happens to it as we do in the local self-government that we deal with, not at the level of theory, but practice, then your life or your discussions would seem a little different to you and it wouldn't all be as simple to you as it seems. I also warn you on the board, etc., that some things you don't know, and that you think I don't know how to read the budget is your right, I know very well what it says here and why I support this government, and why I would never support what you represent, and the citizens said clearly a few months ago only 100 days ago what they think of everyone on the political scene and have given someone to conduct their policies. We've been good this year. We'll be even better in the next year. That doesn't suit you, you're a coalition of destroyers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14703	Thank you very much, thank you very much. You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I wonder why. Here you go, Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14704	Here, Mr. Bacic, injure 238, excuse me, Mr. Boric, you're making this all wrong again. So I, I didn't say that recycling plastic would get me that money, but you wouldn't have to pay 20 million fines because you don't recycle it because it's been introduced this year. the tax on unrecycled plastics to be determined, its height shall be determined according to the tolerance unrecycled. So give it a try if you don't already know try listening in advance what others say. [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14705	It was a replica, you have a note from Mrs. Bencic. Mr. Branko Bacic, Mr. Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14706	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, we have known each other well for many years as I have followed you, you have made 17 budgets in your life, unlike Mrs. Bencic, she certainly has many more when she knows it better than you, whether as secretary of state, whether as assistant minister, whether at local level, so 17 budgets are behind you. So I think you're invited about the budget to say something. As regards the IGP or the declaration of an exclusive economic belt, we will declare it, however, as regards the position of Croatian fishermen that this will contribute to them, it is not true, and I would like that if what my colleague Grumoja said was true, but it will not be, because by declaring a protected ecological fishing band all the attributes of the IGP relating to fishing were declared. We will be able to build artificial islands and produce IGP compared to ZERP The electrical energy from the waves from the difference of tide and axis, that's all that's going to be the difference between one and the other.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14707	Here you go, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14708	My colleague Bačić and you and I know that those who offer something here have done, say, one budget, so it's changed them, they're gone from that town, so now they'd be installing other environments, and I can see that they're changing my island to them. They are not with us, nor are they councilmen, nor exist as a party because such let's say politicians don't need anyone who understands something in the sense that it's not the populism they're saying. And to say today here is to declare the IGP and everything is settled in Croatia, so that, so only MOST can compete no, they say to themselves that they changed the name of the party so they can be called MOST again. And that's what we have to listen to. And today I'm listening to these debates, says investigator Grmoy who knows everything and statistician Bulj who has different statistics than everyone here in the assembly and from the whole state and assures us that we don't know anything, and we're showing that they wanted to replace this minister who, in my opinion, is the best minister that the Ministry of Finance has ever had and they wanted to replace him because It was his knowledge that was intruding. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14709	Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14710	Thank you very much, Vice President. You told your colleague Boric what all his colleagues said we weren't, and I'd say everything we are. We made 3 surpluses, saved 630,000 jobs, saved over 107 businesses, reduced the share of public debt in GDP, returned investment credit ratings, and thus reduced the economy and the citizens who are now much more favourable, reduced 61,000 blocked citizens by even more than 24 billion kuna, contributed to the reduction of the number of the poor by an additional 230,000 and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14711	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14712	Thank you very much. Comrade Yurichev, of course we speak that way, but it just doesn't seem to matter. We've heard them say it sucks because if they were, then they'd be the best, fair, etc., but we've been through their experiences, so we've been with this Most in the coalition twice, they've destroyed their government twice, their people. Well, you can't do good with them. And today we have a government that can accomplish what it says. And this year when we remember the rebalancing of the first, the achievement of the second by the end of the year, so better than what we projected because we had a good tourist season. Now we listen to every day, daily politics, now we're a Swedish model, now we're not, when we're not what we are, when we are what we are, etc., every day some story, and what's left behind, records in this house there in some books that they're saying something, but there's nothing behind them. And what they're trying to say is that nothing's wrong with this and there's no voting for this. We are the ones who will vote and continue this government's policy. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14713	No more, no more replicas, Mr. Boric. Now it's Mr. Simičević's debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the ministry and ministers wherever they are, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers, here is the draft budget for 2021, this budget is so demanding that it was done in the time of the great pandemic and every step is so uninformed that it is impossible to know what will happen tomorrow, not in 5, 10 or a year. What is important is to know what are the possibilities and have several variants that can be reacted in the event of major changes. There you are, Mr. Minister, but you have authority and you're doing an excellent and responsible job and I trust you and I hope that most of you here are present in the assembly of my opinion. What is important for this budget, as have already been said by some colleagues and colleagues, is that it is socially sensitive, that it gives hope to all social groups that they are not forgotten, that it is developed in terms of investment in infrastructure and giving chances or opportunities for entrepreneurial activities to take care of all employees who are difficult or in no way able to do their job on a daily basis. So here we also had the opportunity to hear that Croatia will remain, that there will be 400,000 workers in Croatia, and fortunately this did not happen thanks to the work of the Minister and this Government. These are problems that do not normally arise when drawing up the draft budget, but now they are unlimited consumers of budget money. I believe that this monster, that this monster will not last long, will soon find a vaccine that will then allow for a better tourist season. My thoughts too are that the budget money, when it comes to how to use it, is on the trail of the proposed strategy for Croatia's development. So I think in the sense that we should invest in protecting the environment and producing healthy food, continue to invest in renewable energy sources and reduce the CO2 premium, give young people a chance to start a working relationship. In addition to all the benefits that are included in the legal frameworks of marriage, I mean men and women, give irrevocable incentives to resolve the housing issue 100,000 kunas, continue to invest in education, science and sport, and thus create equal chances for all. Knowledge is added value and technological development guarantees improvement in every sense. Achieving the pedagogue standard for all students in our beautiful class in one shift, for the afternoon of school to be centres of excellence and additional, extra, extracurricular activities. Reform healthcare so nurses, doctors and everyone in the system don't think about anything but providing health care services to the needy. The system of social care and care for the elderly and unable to make available to all who are in need. Reform the justice system and fight corruption at all levels. Continue to reform the state administration to make it easier for us to have access to administration, easier life and more nerve. To enable the MUP to continue all activities, especially to find missing Croatian defenders and civilians from the Homeland War. The current budget deficit is easily compensated if the pandemic disappears. In this time we should be optimistic, we should be sons of light, not sons of darkness. This government is also different because it was the only one who respected the agreement with the social partners, and we know that the greatest strike of educators was precisely because of the sins of previous governments. Today, it is difficult to meet all the users of the budget, and it is not said without reason that one who gives a lot and one who receives a little. My message to end up being patient, humble, responsible, if we beat the Chetniks and the JNA, we'll win the pandemic and the holes in the budget. Only faith and love can create a mountain of hope and sometimes wonders Here's another minister you have my support. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14715	But stay here because you have replicas. The first line has Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14716	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your picturesque debate, you touched a lot of important things that are necessary in the context of the reforms so that in these times of crisis, you could still stay above the water if we can say so, and you have particularly absorbed the importance of using those resources that we have in one wise, smart and sustainable way and when it comes to the production of food and agriculture, the preservation of rural space, but also when it comes to investing those economic activities that create new jobs, protect the social security of employees and protect the environment, therefore complete sustainable development. Given that we have in these circumstances a budget that I would say is reasonable, on the other hand we must also be reasonable to the means that come from the EU and I hope that we will take that chance In a good way to use it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14717	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14718	Here's a thank you to my colleagues on the line, to agree absolutely with you. We must use everything to keep our regular Slavonia busy, to work and to produce food and to place that same food in the tourist season on our Croatian coast and that we Croats as a nation have healthy food, and therefore, if we eat healthy food, then we will be more resistant to everything, and we will clearly and less investment in the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14719	Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14720	Thank you very much. In your debate, you pointed out that this budget, in its developmental sense, includes, among other things, continuing investment in quality of work in school institutions, especially in material conditions, and I need to reiterate that for the next financial year, the division relating to the Ministry of Science and Education has increased by 11.9% and 2 billion kuna, respectively. So there is primarily money from the state budget, but also from EU funds that are not yet visible in this budget. I have a need to especially highlight and remind both you colleagues and colleagues, but also the Croatian public that by changing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools Article 142, this government has enabled you to return capital investment from the state budget to primary and secondary education or school facilities. And for the next year in the plan and it will be built up, built up and restored here after [[Intruder: Time.]] Vukovar and after the marking of Dan Vukovar [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Nikola Andric elementary school in Vukovar, elementary school in St. [[Intruder: Mrs. Bedekovic time.]] Iliji, Lower Miholjac High School And some other school facilities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14721	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bedekovic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14722	Thank you, I thank my colleagues for the replica, and here I have actually spent my entire working life in a system of education and education, so my emotions are different when it comes to the system of education and education. That I really want to, given that we have a smart nation, I want us to have all the opportunities and developed Europe, and I hope we have that soon. As far as teaching technology is concerned, we can really boast that we are among the first to go to that line of teaching without any problems, but it would certainly be much better and better to work in the system if all children had class in the morning shift. So if we know anything else that most bad things happen in schools this afternoon, especially on Fridays, so we need to take care of our young generations in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14723	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Simičević, what you have now listed as you see, how you stand and think you could sign anything except this medieval attitude about marriage, but I want to tell you that your government exercises those attitudes and thoughts, or how most of you support it. So the money, which should be intended for the Slavonia project and the development of Slavonia, is financed by the construction of hotels on the coast, is financed by the entrepreneurial missions of former ministers, their godmothers, relatives, acquaintances, property, partners, and then by all the more visible HDZ ministers, etc., etc. So everything you've described fits very nicely, but membership seems to me to be just one political party, not all citizens. Well, when that changes, then I'll support that budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14725	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14726	I thank you, Mr. Representative, so here I am just going to tell you that no people have entered this assembly, so neither you nor I, so neither this government nor this minister. So they got trust and not anyone but the citizens. So if the citizens have given them confidence then they have a mandate to do what they're doing, and after four years there will be a chance again, so we'll see what the results will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14727	And finally Mrs. Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14728	My dear colleague in your poetic audit budget was hard to find, but I heard you mentioned some centres of excellence, so I'm going to tell you this point in this budget that provides for encouraging and helping work with gifted children, students and students predicts the amount of 3 million and 180 thousand kuna. If we remove students from only primary and secondary school students in the country, Croatia currently has 450,000, it is estimated to be 2% generous, that is 9,000. When you divide this amount on them 9,000 you get 350 kuna per student. You know what they can do with their generosity? I can pay my travel expenses to Zagreb, so here everyone makes a much better budget than you suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14729	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14730	I thank my colleagues, yes, but you've forgotten that humans are more important than the mission. So, in the system of education and education, I dare say we have the best people, no matter what other ministries think, so our educational workers are exceptional, our students are exceptional and here in this time pandemic maybe the money is the least important, but I believe that after this time, when this goes by, and they are gifted to come to their place because in fact only knowledge can get Croatia out of the crisis, and I think that young people together with their teachers can achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14731	No more replicas, thank you very much. Mrs. Mirela Ahmetovic has her own debate now, after we clean up the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14732	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, the 2021 budget is not realistic. In fact, income is, income is planned with 147.3 billion kuna and 12.3% higher than last rebalancing. Understandably, this year's budget, the 2020 budget, is affected by the consequences of less business activity caused by the health and economic crisis of course. However, what no one mentions, and what is crucial to point out, is that the government proposes a budget that exceeds the 2019 budget in revenue, and now this planned increase in revenue compared to normal 2019 is 5.2% or almost 7.5 billion kuna more. The government is relying on a overall stronger withdrawal of funds from the EU funds. It also relies on success in withdrawing new agreed funds from EU funds, and Poland and Hungary are thinking that they are also announcing a veto on the EU budget. This increase in income also relies on personal consumption, which is the basis of projected GDP growth of 5%. How when the government of the Republic of Croatia completely failed to adopt a strategy against the health and economic crisis, we do not have a planned set of economic measures that should follow a set of epidemiological measures. How this personal consumption is planned when the government has made an even bigger salary for those who are already receiving the highest wage, and surely this increase will not go to an increase in consumption but to savings. It's unnecessary to talk about the '21 budget plan. A year, it's about guessing the budget for '21. a year that will depend entirely on others, e.g. Hungary and Poland. I don't see that the government planned, planned to engage all available facilities in a country that would be committed to withdrawing funds through EU funds projects, and we put everything on that map. A good part of the revenue is based on the withdrawal of funds from the multiannual financial framework '21–'27. and the use of funds from the new EU instrument of a new generation, and we all know that we are being warned by the services of the ministry and public institutions that the process of withdrawing EU funds is taking a very long time and that we are going to work very hard to withdraw them in 7 years, let alone in '21. year, but we need to be aware that by investing these funds in asphalting or in regulating markets, we will not boost the growth of the economy, we will not achieve 5% of GDP growth, we will not allow wage growth in the private sector, we will not achieve employment growth. These funds need to be channelled towards raising the competitiveness of the economy, and we will not be able to do so without the growth of productivity of capital and labour. And the growth of factor productivity is not without reforms as the government itself said in a proposal for a national development strategy by 2030. Unfortunately, out of the 75 measures defined by the national reform programme, only 7 have been fully implemented. So, it also counts on 7 billion kunas more VAT revenue than in 2020, and we know that without spending, there is no VAT revenue. For these reasons, I believe that the revenues are not planned realistically, I appeal to the Government to immediately agree that at the first budget rebalancing we are not looking for an alibi in the crown crisis because we see, for a large part, that this plan, this kind of income, does not hold water. The expenses are very short. I'll just look back at the planned medical expenditures. Budget for '21. One year, health expenditure increased by 9.2% and 1.2 billion respectively compared to health expenditure planned by the first 2020 budget, and this is problematic because this data gives an unreal impression that the government has taken seriously the need to settle health debts and that it no longer happens that in the graces of suppliers of medicines owed by the state depends on the health and lives of citizens. Also, because compared to the rebalanced 2020 budget, these expenditures are 8% lower, and that's a real picture. So, in 2020, we decided to pay a part of the debt due under the pressure of the wholesaler. That's why a few days ago we adopted 2 billion health expenditure increases, 3 billion left, but we have no intention of resuscitating those debts in the '21s. A year because 1.2 billion for that won't be enough for us. In parallel, new debts are accumulated, and we won't be able to cover them with that 1 billion and 200 million kuna. So, I'm afraid we can expect the same situation very quickly with the 2020 majors and we haven't learned enough from this crown crisis. In '21. There's a new crisis waiting for us called that crown crisis or whatever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14733	You don't have a replica. Mr. Angelko Striker will now, after we freshen up the pay phone, have his individual debate. Here, okay, it's okay, at least I mean, at least I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14734	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Prime Minister, today we are certainly discussing the most important act for next year. a budget for 2021 and projections for '22. and '23. The budget can read the state, needs, ambitions, but also threaten. For the first time, as most likely, we bring this act to the world in a crisis situation caused by the Coronal Virus epidemic. It is this crisis situation that largely dictates income, but also the spending side or priorities of the budget in 2021. And our priorities are certainly, the first protection of the health system and the health of citizens, the second preservation of jobs and the third continuation of economic activity i.e. Resumption of investments. The budget can read the growth of expenditure on salaries, pensions, social assistance and fees and centralised functions, compensation measures for municipalities and cities, co-financing of EU projects at regional and local level, etc. When we talk about next year's investments, I'm only going to point out the most important ones in the Varazdin County area. As part of the Varazdin General Hospital, the daily hospital is worth 51 million kuna and an emergency reception facility worth 20 million kuna, and as part of the hospital in Varazdinske Toplice, the spin centre is worth around 113 million kuna. The budget of the University of the North has increased by 40% this year and this increased amount has been planned in the following year. It continues with the construction of the elementary school of St. Ilija worth 56 million kuna, the biggest investment in primary education of independence. When we talk about the budgets of extra budget users, I will focus only on Croatian water and Croatian roads because if I were to list it all, it would take a while. In the following year, Croatian waters continue to work on the agglomeration of Varazdin value 855 million kuna and agglomeration of the Varazdinske Toplice value 62 million kuna, agglomeration Ivanec is in the stage of carrying out competitions, agglomeration Ludbreg is in preparation for the opening of the competitions, for agglomeration of Novi Marof are all the permits, agglomeration Lepoglav is projected, and the agglomeration of Velika Bukovec awaits changes and additions of the spatial plan of the Varazdin County, and then designing. In parallel, it continues to build several water lines, for example. Novakovec-Poljanec worth 8 million kuna, Krč-Keys 2.3 million kuna, Donja Poljana-Varaždinske Toplice 2.3 million kuna, in Ivanac worth 1.5 million kuna. The plan is to resuscitate a series of ice rinks of about 25 values of 10 million kunas and clean the stream, canals worth 80 locations worth 15 million kunas, in the Cestica municipality building on the Drava River, the value of which is 26 million kuna. Croatian roads start with the construction of the eastern roadway of Novi Marof worth 132 million kuna, rotors.../incomprehensible/... values around 7 million kuna, rotor Selnik near Ludbreg worth 6 million kuna, bridge in Tuhovac worth 9.2 million kuna. The Kneginec 1 and 2 rotors are designed, Vidovec and Hrascic, where they are slightly entangled in the resolution of property legal relations. When we talk about the project of the fast road Varazdin-Ivanec-Lepoglava in the following year we expect all the permits and resolution of property legal relations. I hope that in 2022 we could begin with the first stage of the work from Varazdin to Vidovac or Sad. I could now list investments related to culture, agriculture, environmental protection, electricity, but that would take a while. Therefore, it is important to emphasize in all of this. The realisation of certain investments whether it's a work or a design is partly slowed down due to the coronary epidemic of the virus, but the most important thing is that it continues with all the planned investments, that it will not stop with any of them. I am therefore surprised at the discussion of some colleagues and colleagues who claim to have no investment. On the contrary, the investment is more than ever, and that is why I will support the 2021 RH budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14735	Thank you, stay because Mr. Habian asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14736	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, you mentioned this investment at the level of the Varazdin County in education, in health care, you mentioned agglomerations, you mentioned an increase in funds for extra budget users, since I came from Varazdin, you did not mention it, but here I will complement you on the part relating to the culture in which the city of Varazdin is also known, since the restoration of the Varazdin Library, since the restoration of the Varazdin synagogue, since the restoration of the HNK in Varazdin, has been supported by the Baroque dinners. You mentioned in your discussion and fast road Varazdin-Ivanec, since you stated that this project goes on a little confusing today's SDP statement that the government has hitched off the project, so here if you can comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14737	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14738	Thank you, fellow Habian, so in the introduction, I pointed out that if I were to list all these investments that would really take a while, it's simply impossible to consciousness in 5 minutes, but when we talk about the construction of the fast road of Varazdin-Ivanec-Lepoglava-Krapina, I would like to remind you that just in 2009 just before the local elections SDP ran the campaign in places where this route should be passed, they collected a petition for its construction. This same SDP is in power from 2011 to 2015, and in the county from 2001 to 2017, and you know what they did on that road, nothing, couldn't even record it as a number, class, records, nothing. It's theirs, their credit for building the fast road of Varazdin-Ivanec-Krapino. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14739	Now it's being built, is it, like, built now or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14740	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14741	He's building now, asked the gentleman?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14742	No, no, she's getting ready for 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14743	Get ready, uh, Mrs. Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14744	Mr. Vice President, you have spoken about your county's capital projects, and it is not important to mention, you often stress that it is important to invest in human resources. So she would remind you or supplement you, as counterpart Habib said, in fact, this budget provides for funding and co-financing from European healthcare traineeships, it will be important for these institutions that you spoke of. This project has been going on since 2018, and this project has given 2,200 people from health care the opportunity to put on the labour market, and in 2021, a traineeship is foreseen for 2,000 health workers, which I believe is a major step in relation to the past, and since the sensibility of the government on young people, on demographic renewal, will be greatly grateful to them by trainees and young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14745	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14746	Thank you, Your Honor, I absolutely agree with you, the priority of everything is always people because people are always and always everywhere. In my debate, I focused only on 4 topics, education, health, transport infrastructure and environmental protection because it is simply impossible in 5 minutes to list everything that is planned to be built in the area of Varazdine County. So when we talk about healthcare other than building an emergency hospital, a day hospital, a spinal center waiting 15 to 20 years, these investments finally started. In addition to all those powerful energy renovations of old buildings, the purchase and purchase of medical appliances and equipment, magnetic resonances, CTs, purchases of emergency vehicles, of course, is important and that care is taken about both the schooling and the specialization of doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14747	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you, Mr. Uncle. And now let Mrs Katarina Peovic prepare herself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14748	Good afternoon, everyone, first of all, would explain what was set up in the debate this morning, so the budget seems too optimistic and what I've been trying to explain to the prime minister seems to me that he didn't realize that it's a matter of optimism that in no way has been confirmed in what we've seen so far. So, after the 8% drop in GDP, a gradual recovery of 5% of GDP's economic activity is foreseen, and everything is based on the withdrawal of EU funds, it is not realistic. So why isn't that real? For three, at least three reasons. So, for the first, the first reason means in the previous seven-year period the amount available to us was several times smaller than in just one pre-crisis year, so all investments in one year were higher than the EU, the amount of EU funds in one seven-year period. It's more than that now, isn't it? So we have the problem so much that we are building too optimisticly means our future in EU funds. The second thing is, it is evident that from EU funds we are unable to start our production and restore our production and economy. So, in 2019, the trade deficit between the EU and us amounted to around 71 billion kunas was only 15% of our exporting entrepreneurs. So, the thorough development of EU funds is unrealistic and the purpose of EU funds, the third thing is particularly interesting, so when you get EU funds, they must be used in one specific way. For example, we had a pan-European guarantee fund the other day where it is said that restrictions will be introduced to exclude strategic investment projects that can be interpreted as industrial policy. So exactly what we need is impossible. So what I'm going to try to do in 5 minutes is suggest our, our amendment to the Workers' Front, so I'm going to propose them as a representative who goes after them to warn that the budget is therefore going to be to maintain the status qo, that this status qo cannot be maintained if we want to achieve those declared objectives of the strategy, and one of these objectives is security. So the safety of workers, the safety of the Covid crisis, health security, safety of housing, security of education, it can't be achieved this way. The first proposal would therefore be related to health care, the proposal would go towards increasing the income of healthcare in the segment of its own production of medicines by providing more resources for the Immunological Institute, which would be used as a start for the start of our production of medicines from blood or plasma, the launch of production and all other immunobiological medicines and medical products, and the launch of research and development in the Immunological Institute. I warn that from 2015 to 2019, even 1.7 billion kuna were paid for suspicious imports of drugs and a third for immunobiological medicines and vaccines produced by the Immunological Institute. So by investing in the Immunological Institute, we can ensure this proclaimed goal of food, health and health security. At the moment of the Covid-19 crisis and the blackmail of large-scale drugs, which in the midst of the largest pandemics decide to suspend the delivery of medicinal products, should be invested in the production of domestic drugs and medical equipment. This could initially, therefore, not be enough funds, but in the current budget, an additional 160 million kuna could be allocated, because now it means paying for the cold drive about 30 million kuna is more expensive than this. So we're not getting anything, we're paying for some money. So the funds are available, of course, everywhere the funds are available, that there's no money at all is not an exact fact, so the funds are available from the defense, so to which we finance through every measure. The target is 2% of GDP by 2025 for the comparison of cultures, for culture is less than 1% so that for vehicle equipment, foot-and-mouth disease I don't think 160 million kunas should be singled out. The second thing is to increase the social assistance and compensations that are reduced according to the draft budget. Why do social benefits need to be increased? So because on a scale of all indicators of poverty and social exclusion, unfortunately every year we rise from, again on that scale, almost a million people live at risk of poverty, we progress on that scale. Therefore, only about 140 million kunas are planned, our proposal is to increase by 100 million kuna, again we have, of course, these costs to single out very much in the church segment. Furthermore, it is an apartment to increase social promotional housing, and reduce subsidies and State guarantees for housing credits, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14749	Thank you. You don't have a replica. Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac has her own debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14750	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, so speaking of the budget, the specific budget of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2021 is the same planned amounting to €7.062 billion, representing a reduction of €19 million compared to the 2020 plan. Here I have to briefly recapture the payments of support to agriculture and the Croatian village so far. The maximum amount as an obligation is not determined but a regulation regulating direct payments determines the maximum amount of European and national funds allowed for their payment, which increases the European share each year by making the largest number of EU Member States the right amount to pay their farmers precisely that maximum amount and thus makes them stronger and more competitive in the common market. We have received official confirmation from the Ministry of Agriculture these days that, for the period from 2013, Croatia's village, and we are talking about the first year for which direct payments were financed from EU funds until 2019, about 1.8 billion kuna is paid less than the maximum allowable amount for direct payments during the same period, and to which, among other things, the Ministry of Agriculture must spend money. Therefore, in relation to the financing of damages to the claims related to rural development measures, measures which are called upon and designed only by the Ministry of Agriculture and all because of giving advantages in competitions to large companies that artificially created conditions that enabled them to carry out additional points of water, litigation procedures for the Ministry of Agriculture are carried out. Their indicative value is up to 150 to a possible 420 million kuna. These are the funds that will be lost if the Ministry of Disputes pays out of the Republic of Croatia's budget more precisely from funds collected from taxpayers. So, by means of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I note that for certain cases, the Ministry of Agriculture has already concluded agreements and paid millions of compensations on the same issue. I believe that here today it is also necessary to repeat that the Republic of Croatia does not use all the instruments to reduce the tax burden on farmers, so we are talking about possible application of the provisions of Council Directive 2006/112 on the common system of value added tax, which would allow the collection of flat-rate fees for farmers. This billing model is currently being used by 18 EU Member States. And here I note that Croatia should also consider the issue of non-taxing support in agriculture decided by most EU Member States, all with the aim of strengthening fallen agricultural production. These days, one professor calculated and publicly announced this on the basis of the issues raised and the answers received by counterpart Sonja Cikotic, among others, that Croatia has paid the EU budget more than it has withdrawn. Date 31.12.2019. Croatia has paid 21 billion and 800 million kuna to the EU's common budget. In the same period, 17.3 million kuna was paid to Croatia. In other words, Croatia has paid € 4.5 billion in the EU budget more than it has been paid over a six-year period. I also add to this the finding that should be kept in mind, which was discussed, which is an increase in the membership rate of the Republic of Croatia towards the EU. In line with the above, I believe that Croatia has no reason to be optimistic. The sooner we admit that the cars are going downhill, the sooner we can get a solution. I personally consider agricultural production and processing a serious potential that we systematically neglect instead of strongly supporting it and thus generating new jobs and fostering GDP growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14751	Thank you. Mr. William Matula will now have his own debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14752	Thank you, dear Vice President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, for years I've been used to listening either in discussions or in preparation for the debate or later on the reports on budgeting, they were flossules, developmental and social, I thought no one would use it because today I really didn't hear it, I don't know maybe you heard it, only now in the evening a colleague used there.../incomprehensible/... that this is a developmental and social one is also said and balanced budget. It's mostly said that this is the economic recovery budget. Now, we've received a few lessons from distinguished experts here from the bench about how we don't actually read the budget and that's why we're struggling, but I'm convinced that Mr. Minister who sits here knows very well that these remarks on inexplicability simply can't be rejected. I've got a place on the Committee on Agriculture and believe the people who appear to us are quite written informational and they know as well as you do that this is there, you have to tell us what the reason, my impression is that there's something hidden here for a wider discussion, or it's some custom that my mom's cousin used to do when they were digitrons from Buja he was doing inventory in the iron trade, galanteria, and then after everything he'd calculated on this, then he went to check it out with his hand, here's what it looks like to me. There's no reason for this. Here's what I can quickly say, what are the direct payments to the agricultural producers I'm going to cut short my colleague was saying, I was there. So in '19 it's 2 billion 921 million kuna, '20 billion 69 it's possible that with some means for the pandemic, it's increased now by '21. It's going to 2 billion 946 million again. If the assumption is that it is the 150,000 OPG's and if the estimates that 170,000 have there and that every age of 20,000 that don't get these small ones, because 40% doesn't get anything or very little for a very long time it's some money that can help in this year which is so bad people, however, there's a problem with which HDZ meets and you know it very well, and that's what Drago Hedl wrote in 2017 means at the time of your government now this project Slavonia, Baranja, but everything about the Lucic family wrote all that you know. I have to jump to culture because I don't have time here. So in culture, my colleague Bakic has asked some real questions of ours like this, there are little figures. We had a visual activity program of 6 million 495, and now we predict 14, 15% less that's 5 million 500 grand, 520 grand, he's asking me why, I really don't know why. The programme of theatre music scene activity, creativity at this time when people lose their senses, purpose, all the questions why culture that can't get to 1%, can't get to 1% of the budget, let alone 1.5, which would be some kind of minimum, that's nothing. For theater 11.2% less at this time. Look, you don't have to do all these things, you can prepare yourself, you claim that we're going to get out of the crisis, you let everyone out, you let people in rehearsal halls with enough space to prepare materials and be creative and that independent artists are taking part in this. Innovative artistic cultural practices, we had 9 million that increased either I just believe because of the crisis, now it's reduced to 6 million, 33% less, why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14753	I love you, too. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic should now be prepared slowly for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I think it has been said by now that the budget of each government is, in fact, the main political document. The main political manifesto is even more than the programme itself, because the budget has actually drawn what the government wants and can realize, what it wants to do and where it wants to take the state. Judging from this manifesto, unfortunately I expected much more and the truth is and it does not need to be avoided, although the circumstances in which this budget is really specific and specific, but looking at Croatia not so long ago, in fact, every budget has been passed in similar or very similar situations, uncertainty, uncertainty, economic crisis that has never really been overcome in Croatia at least not the way it should have been and at least not healthy. It is unfortunate that the national development strategy still does not have, it is a key document for withdrawing money from European funds, not only do we not have it yet but it has been clearly delayed because of the epidemiological situation but I was then hoping that, as the Prime Minister announced, some new document will be found before us, a different document that will not be just a colloquial copy paste or what we have read in the previous national development strategies. Unfortunately, this did not happen although the national development strategy would somehow describe then I would say that it describes the degree of development Slovenia is at and that we want to be at that stage of development. It's about very rough and very plastic. Most of the time, we didn't get a document that, at least in my view, would guarantee a withdrawal of funds at the rate that we would like and would like to direct it to at least what we can read from the budget. Already a lot of concrete things are mentioned, I will also mention some that I think have earned a much larger amount of resources and that actually get symbolic amounts from the budget, and not only are the root problems but I would say the root of the solution, let's say so. For example. extracurricular activities in primary and secondary schools have been traditionally from budget to budget neglected, left at a symbolic amount. If we were to recalculate the amount that we have planned and the number of schools we have would get embarrassing data that around 500,000 kunas are intended for extracurricular activities complete. So I have to repeat again in this system as well as the health care system, etc., if we didn't have committed and highly motivated employees and employees, that system would have been ruined for a long time, he would have collapsed because we don't invest in it even a minimum to patch up the holes. Working with gifted students is also extremely neglected. The prevention of school violence, so speaking in the medical dictionary, I've said it 100 times, but they say the repetition of the mother of knowledge, the kuna invested in prevention is 5 kuna saved in recovery, and here we're not just talking about physical health, we're also talking about mental health that is much more important and some scars can be much deeper. The National Qualifications Committee, its promotion and implementation is also with, even less than a symbolic amount covered in this budget, and we know that HKO or NKO are a lot of damage in its implementation and that it is still far from what it should have been when it was actually conceived and when it first entered the budget. Also assistants in the teaching of children with difficulties, that was already the case, so I would not stick around, but what I would keep to myself is technical culture as outside of teaching activity and the Croatian community of technical culture. And this government as well as many before it is absolutely commendable points out the STEM area as a focus of work or points out the STEM area as something that should make students desirable to study because there are both new technologies and easy employment and therefore the future for our students, or one day workers on the labour market. However, technical culture as an extracurricular activity is not encouraged at all. The Croatian community of technical culture, which is the roof community, so all technical associations also receive a minimum amount. This is something that needs to be changed and my amendments to the budget will go exactly in this direction that the amount is not only symbolic but that we also stand behind our words and encourage the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14755	Thank you very much. You don't have a replica. Mr. Pavlik, with video, please, you can video, we don't have to clean up the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14756	Evening, good evening. Well, hello, everyone. Here, I think this proposal of the State Budget for 2021 as well as the projections for '22. and '23. a list of good wishes. In fact, when you look at this budget, the man said that honey and milk flow in Croatia, and we are far from it. This is not a real budget, it does not show the real situation, both public finances and Croatian economies. Namely, when you compare the revenue and expenditure side in global terms and compare it to the 2020 budget before the crown of the pandemic itself, we come up with almost identical amounts. In addition, I fear that primarily by ruling already on the first budget rebalancing which will be in the spring of 2021 will rapidly sober because there will certainly be a 10-15% drop in revenue. I don't want to be the grandmother of Wang, but I'm afraid that's when it's gonna come to that real cruel reality. Also, the big problem with this budget is that it is largely based on EU funds, and we all know that these are not the funds currently found in the Treasury in Zagreb but are located in Brussels and, of course, should be applied, projects should be done well to attract them. These are not funds that will come in trucks and be delivered to St. John's Square. Mark. We should fight for them. In addition, I must also say that in this budget, unfortunately there are no very important measures regarding demographic recovery, early Croatian society cancer. There are no real demographic measures. When we compare the amounts that are allocated for demographics, they are almost identical to the amounts so far. The only thing we have in this budget is that we've lost the Ministry of Demography than we now have this Central Office for Demography and Youth. I must also mention that it was very important to accept at least one of the opposition's budgets, especially as regards demographics themselves. I'm primarily thinking about the parent's mother's budget, where mothers with 3 and more children would receive certain benefits from the state itself, both employed and unemployed and thus, believe me, there would be a demographic renewal. In particular, because this would have multiple expressions in passive areas, where the average labour prices and wages are anyway far lower than the rest of the Republic of Croatia. I mean, first of all, Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, the devastated demographic Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem. I must also mention that this budget shows an increase in funding for national minorities, which means that national minorities make up the ruling majority, but unfortunately there has been no reciprocal increase in funds for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Here we think of the Croats in BiH, here we think of the Croats in Vojvodina and I think the ruling majority should deal more with the Croatian national minority outside the Republic of Croatia. No matter what the diaspora has only 3 MPs, yet for the three MPs elected, they are part of the ruling majority and I think that is exactly why more funds should be provided for the Croats, especially in these already mentioned countries. Here, I hope, however, that the ruling will accept some of the amendments to the opposition, primarily the amendment of Croatian sovereigns, as regards primarily the demographic renewal of Croatian society because it is indeed the cancer of the early Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14757	Now it's Mr. Marin Lerotić's turn in front of the IDS Representatives Club, and that's how we start the closing of the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14758	Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates. Here, just 11 hours here, we're talking about the State Budget for 2021, and it's a good thing that so long the debate is taking place and that everyone who was interested and involved and contributed to the development of this important document, but also, we should be correct and say that here all the time and the minister with our associates is one of the few ministers who is willing to listen to suggestions, but also critics. We could hear a number of high-quality arguments with good projects today, however, it is now the responsibility of the government. The state budget will direct all relevant segments of the development of society in 2021 and therefore it is necessary that all citizens, through their representatives, can participate in the debate through us parliamentary representatives and that amendments of opposition be respected and accepted. These amendments include projects whose realisation will benefit citizens, not the parliamentary majority or opposition. These projects are not politicizing, they are here to meet the needs of all our citizens. Depending on what the final draft budget will look like, we will see whether this government is growing up politically and is ready, and in practice, not just declaratively in Croatia to introduce high European standards and examples of good practice from highly developed countries. Today I was talking about Denmark or Germany, but I'm going to say finally, we can look at Pula, the city from which I come. In the budget last year when it agreed for 2020, the city of Pula respected 72% of all amendments, or those amendments were already in the process. I deeply hope that this difficult situation we are in, this very challenging year will contribute to a different approach by the Government because it is not possible and it is not true that no single amendment to the state budget that comes from the opposition is good. The IDS Club submitted 39 amendments to the state budget. They're focused on growth and development. From the rulings we always listen to offer concrete suggestions be constructive. Today I can say that we are like IDS, but also a good part of the opposition achieved that and now it's the government's move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14759	Mrs Grozdana Peric will speak finally on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14760	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am just going to take a brief look at what we've been saying in this heated debate today. In fact, each of us also has the opportunity to contribute to the development of Croatia through the national development strategy by 2030 and the observations we can make, and then also to improve our lives in Croatia, as well as to achieve the budget and withdrawal of EU funds. What I would like, although many colleagues hold a figurine in their pocket with this very fact that Hungary and Poland are in one way obstructing or question whether or not they will support or veto the seven-year European budget, yet I believe that reason will prevail and that no one, in any way, will actually make it impossible to survive, but also to develop each country. I therefore think that in the European Parliament and among the countries there will be ways to address all these recommendations that exist. What should be said is that, and I was also saying in an individual debate, that our budget is exactly this for 2021, although it is 25 billion kuna of European funds, yet he and she are carefully planned and with a great deal of attention this very means that are specifically intended from the New Generation's funds, but also what's now in place inside is actually talking about how careful she is about not being just a list of how someone says desire and good wishes but real and real what the rest of the ministry, Minister and Government has shown all these years. I can't agree with the fact that some colleagues say there's nothing in this budget about demographics. When someone says so, then I just ask a question, and what measure and how does one say that there is nothing that this advocate would do and what he would do to make something obvious? Demographic measures must be swept through the entire budget, through all programmes, and that is what is happening throughout this entire period from 2016 on here, so in certain segments, whether this was about maternity, parental benefits, about aids various, about the construction of kindergartens etc., and therefore, in any case, there should be concerns about opening jobs, about housing, and all of these are parts that were actually consumed through certain projects. In addition, I would also like to say that our extra budget users are actually a large, large item or their total incomes are more than 43 billion kuna from which the HZZO itself has more than 27.7 billion and that is what we should also discuss in detail and make sure that their work and their activity are well controlled and I think there is a lot of space where we can all work together in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14761	Thank you, too. Mr Tomislav Tomašević will perform on behalf of the Green-Left bloc Club also finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14762	Thank you. For us at the Green-Left Block Club, this is the first budget we are going to discuss, which we will soon decide in the Croatian Parliament and we wanted to set up here and methodologically some things that I think can be improved if we need to change some sublegal acts to make this budget as accessible and more easily searched then let's do it. So, I don't think there's any point in making it harder for MPs and the public to go through this budget and change it more easily. We are on foot, so to speak, going through various items, for example, on various external services that exist at the positions of all ministries and we have established meaning for this budget a little less than 160 billion kuna around 20 billion kuna, so around 20 billion kuna goes to external services. Of course, we don't know exactly what because it's not a level 4 budget, but watch out for 20 billion kunas of different positions, so it goes from different state institutions to some kind of external service. Since a colleague from the HDZ Club mentioned the National Development Strategy, perhaps such services. I think we know that a development strategy has been paid through the EU funds to the World Bank for the National Development Strategy, but if that's how money goes, 10 million kuna on such external services, then it's no wonder we're here where we are. So there's obviously some huge item in which to argue. What is symbolic, completely incredible but true is that 14.5 thousand kunas are going to be implemented, or to be implemented, by the National Anti-Corruption Programme. That's just quite appropriate, so symbolic I guess the government is holding up the fight against corruption, and you don't think it's just some symbolic joke now that the prime minister tried to do it too is reducing the budgets of some institutions like DORH so I don't know if it's some kind of reward based on investigations that are under way. On the other hand, we also warned about some things where we could come up with some savings. The colleague mentioned the contribution we pay to the EU budget, so-called plastic tax, so it's a plastic packaging that's not recycled and we pay for a ton of unrecycled plastics that contribution. It is foreseen in the budget for the following year as much as 121 million kuna for the contribution. So if we're going to do better, if we're going to separate more, if we're going to recycle more plastic packaging, I'm not just talking about that PET packaging that we're doing a lot better, I'm talking about that other plastic packaging, we're going to pay less into the EU budget, and we're going to have more money in the budget for some things. In that sense, we were constructive in handing over or we had already handed over about 40 amendments. We know that the practice in this assembly is that everything that comes from the opposition, absolutely all the amendments to the budget as far as I know, are automatically rejected. I hope that practice will change too, and some things in this assembly have been voted against with the votes of opposition. The prime minister said that if there were good proposals that they would be considered, so if needed, if adopted. So it's impossible that out of those 40 amendments none of our amendments are good. And I hope you don't reject them automatically just because they came from the opposition. We have worked hard, we have walked through the budget, we have analyzed all these items, we have collected at different positions of the ministry, we have watched where money could be taken, of course it's easy to give money to some items, but we have seen quite studioically where this money could be taken, that's of course a political message, it's in line with our green-left values, and there are items where we propose for both education and culture, and for helpers in continuing for children with development difficulties and for people with disabilities and for the social economy and for cooperatives and for many other things that we really consider to improve the quality of life of people, most people in this country. So we did our job the best we could under these conditions and we believe that these amendments are good and we hope that the promoter will not automatically reject them just because they came from the opposition. So from that perspective, I hope that the next year when we discuss the budget, we will do so on operational and technical better documents that are easier for both our parliamentary representatives and the public to use and that we will also discuss the fourth level of the budget Because then we really see what they're like, what kind of expenses they're about. [[Intruder: Time Mr. Tomašević.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14763	Thank you. And the last speaker, Mr. Named Brumnic, who will speak finally on behalf of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14764	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14765	Please turn yourself in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14766	It's the same story every time. Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to start with something that I actually thought that a colleague who spoke before me would be touched when a colleague from HDZ said give us a good proposal for demographic policy and we'll adopt it. In his debate, a colleague made this good proposal, and this good proposal was to build apartments for rent instead of huge incentives for APN where only those involved in the real estate market earn money. Since there was no replica I couldn't use it in the replica, and then here I am going to continue with what I was going to say. This budget, or budget that is now happening in the pandemic era, and I hope at the end of the pandemic that actually shows and increases the difference between successful and failures in the EU and the world probably. HDZ said this is the recovery budget. My question to the minister is what it will recover, which kind of economy will recover when he himself said our economy is bad, that our economy is practically uniform. This means that we are not in this crisis that was not good but which should have been a challenge to change or try to change the structure of the economy and the efficiency of the public administration that pains us would even tell us 30 years minimum in this country. HDZ colleagues have been constantly speaking towards opposition with denial, so they said one of us said Mr. Maric was not a good minister. I think Mr. Maric is one of the better, and certainly the most correct minister in this government. The problem is the government. No, the problem is government, the problem is a strategy we don't have, and the problem is that we don't know exactly what we want to do. It is not the Minister of Finance who travels the road, it is the Minister of Finance who records what is happening, and what is recorded in the budget rebalancing was shown and what the HDZ colleagues said will improve healthcare, I do not understand how it will improve the health care that is practically falling apart without the fact that it is ready to pay those debts that have already been made. These debts, which appear only according to large-scale drugs, are longer than 360 days, while at the same time the competition agency punishes private firms that pay for more than 30 days, and the minister knows that. My question is, did this same agency maybe punish the ministry or the government for doing the opposite of the law? And then the final question that's being asked, and I've asked it here, is what the HDZ colleagues praise, what they've solved, and based on these solutions, they should believe that it will be better in the future. An earthquake. The earthquake in Zagreb was nine months ago we didn't move anywhere. We see 260 million in the budget, of these 260 million more than half the money will be spent on design only, and the total cost of reconstruction has been mentioned to be 40 billion. Covid. One thing that's been said the whole time is spent eight billion. It was spent 8 billion on politics that Germany had in 2008 and I support it. I fully support what the government has done to pay people's salaries so they don't lose their jobs or the systems don't go out. But what's done more than that? What was done with the structure of the economy, what was done with the structure of the public administration? We're in moments of lockdown, I have to admit at one point we seemed to have had an effective administration. Today, that administration isn't half as effective as it was the moment we met with the pandemic and the lock down. Here, I don't want any more, I really hope that The Ministry of Finance and the Government will review all amendments made by opposition clubs [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And that they will find good amendments among them. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14767	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Brumnic. That's why I'm closing the argument and, nothing, so far he's gone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14768	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, for my apology if I made a late announcement I wanted only at the end of this debate, here are 10 hours and something more to discuss the budget and I think it is really good and because of the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, but also because of the Croatian public that many of you mentioned and recognized, of course, it is the most important act that is being brought along in the course of one year and it implies a very, very, very much. And finally here are these discussions and all these comments I am pleased and thank you for noticing that my fellow state secretary, Mayor Matijević, and my little bit of time, of course at the beginning, and the Prime Minister of the Government, have spent today listening to and commenting, criticism, proposals, all together, and then I will also be as much or as at the same level of decency as I say, and to thank you for being here in the assembly that you actually listened to today, participated not only in the context of clubs and individually, but also in the context of the replicas to contribute to a democratic debate on the budget. The least I can tell you is that we're going to consider all the amendments, we're not going to do them like some of you just said, "I'm going to say no." We know for ourselves and the practice between other and previous governments was that, in general, all or almost all amendments refused, I can guarantee that we will consider all amendments. At this point we have as many of them as I have seen and talked to Mr. Bukarica over 250, but let's say for a fact that you mentioned the IDS, I haven't seen them yet, so there will be over 300 of them, and that, of course, when there is a debate on amendments, there is another debate, and probably a longer debate than we had today about the budget itself. We will explain each amendment, why we can accept something, or if we cannot also explain it. However, I would not like to but, of course, at a given point in time, given the political connotations of the budget itself, it is certain that it can and will not be left behind those conclusions that say that again our amendments have been rejected, because, in the same or same logic of things, we in the government and the ruling position in the assembly can also say that anyone who votes against the budget actually doesn't know now, not for paying pensions, is not for paying wages, I don't think we need that debate. There are 1,300 and some activities in Croatia, in the state budget for the next year over 10,000 it seems to me 16-17,000 somewheres, so now we're going for each other to impute whether you're for or against this, but again I'm saying we're really going to have a little bit of time, but we're going to do it just as we have done over the weekend, to prepare for this pay phone again, of course, for us from the Ministry of Finance and the rest of the resolutions and explain each individual amendment. Otherwise, as far as the debate is concerned, there have been real and very good and proposals and correct suggestions on the matter of the budget itself, but I think you are all aware of the circumstances we are in and the challenges we are still facing and that we will continue to face. They don't give any big maneuver space, but we can't use it as an excuse and we don't use it. We ourselves have said that we want to show this budget, among other things, that in these circumstances we are responsible and transparently managing taxpayers' money, so the state budget and also have ready answers to everything that very often journalists like to ask us, or they speak for the Croatian public on those different things if they are scenarios. This scenario of Covida and I really think that not only in the Croatian Parliament but also beyond that could not have predicted when we were doing the budget myself I might have reminded you a little while ago, one of my colleagues from the assembly showed me that he wanted to do in his presentation but was not able to say by quoting or paraphrasing the words that I said myself, not now because I think I said something very smart, but on the trail among other things what many macro-economicists and economists are saying. In good times, you really need to work hard and collect everything you can in anticipation of some bad circumstances what we say is a crisis that we don't know about when and in which segment, but we can certainly assume there will be. And now it's come true again. And those kind of relationships and links that tie this crisis to the past financial economic crisis, I think it's such a fresh experience, and we should have all of those expensive lessons taken if we haven't already learned from other people's mistakes, then at least on our own, so we don't repeat it and really get that recovery as soon as possible and take advantage of all of these opportunities that cost us, and all of these risks to minimize as much as possible. And that's what's roughly and in some way the taste of this budget is eating in its total volume, the overall framework must have been fundamentally ours and our intention. And finally, just as far as transparency is concerned, one short, short, this is no happier than any of us really believe in the Ministry of Finance when we have a quality discussion and within the Committee of Assembly, and also plenary, to get into any possible porn, the item of the budget itself, is that PDF question, the Exel table we're going to do and that's not some big problem. As far as the level of the contiguous plan is concerned, it's defined by the law, and I know we'd all want even more detail like this, but these are the things that the law prescribes, of course, the law isn't something that can't be changed, but we need to see and be aware of all the possible and positive things that we have in this current framework. I only hope that from these appeals we will not get to what we see and, among other things, in the Croatian Assembly, that everyone can speak in all possible ways both in distance and in other rooms, so we can finally see that this is not fully used. But in any case, you can count on that as far as we're concerned, as far as the Ministry of Finance and the Government are concerned, we will do everything we can to continue to raise that level of transparency. In some previous developments, we have discussed this, so the transparency of the budget is certainly one of those we can say the necessary conditions of responsible behaviour towards taxpayers' money. And that's what we're gonna do, and don't make me say so at all that we're gonna worry that somewhere like maybe some of the MPs said they wanted to hide something. In no way is it intentional, however, we prefer it when everything is completely transparent then we too are more calm not to suffer such a kind of unargumented criticism as we could hear among other things. But not to put an end to it, I really think it was a good debate. I thank everyone for participating, Monday, Tuesday, I don't know what the plan is we'll see each other again, I mean, as I've said and longer than we've seen each other today, that all these amendments go through. If, of course, there's something that's also on the trail of the possibility of fitting in and that's on the trail of everything we've predicted in the original budget, surely at the very least, what I said we'll consider, and then whether or not we'll accept it. Finally, I am sure that these 72% of what I heard in the city of Pula budget at the level of the state budget will not be seen very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14769	Thank you, too. Stay, stay here is the debate was good but it's not over yet because, because you have four replicas. Mrs. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14770	Here, no matter what the debate really is, I have a question that represents some kind of framework of all this and I haven't had time to ask it in the morning. So why are the CNB again allowed to break the CNB Act? In fact, the CNB persistently violates Article 57(2) of the 2020 law so far in force, under which it is not allowed to form general reserves that are greater than 20% of the surplus expenditure income achieved. And the CNB every year when it registered profit 14 over the last 17 years left more than 20% of the profits in reserves and it left much more on average 63.3% so directly damaged the state budget by a minimum of 3 million, billions of kuna in cumulative amount. That's what it would be like to say a question for that general part of the budget is, we're going to stick to that special part in our heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14771	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14772	Thank you very much, well-respected MPs on the replica and commentary, here's what I'm happy to do to get into things like that and into things like that. To obtain the CNB according to the CNB Act when the CNB is calculated, of course, when that profit is achieved and is paid. You know well that monetary authority in the Republic of Croatia as well as in the EU is an independent, independent institution that is directly responsible to the Croatian Parliament so that this issue with due respect, but in any case I suggest that you refer when a CNB report is submitted they are here at least once in the mid-term, governor and fellow vice-governments come and elaborate each single item and all the questions you have. So I would beg and direct you in such a way that I might not come into some collapsing and enter that independence that I told you about. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14773	Thank you very much. Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14774	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, the Honorable Ministers here, as you have said, we are actually in the final statement that we should be collected when there is, it has actually been shown over the past three years, the financial years we have had surpluses, this year I am sure that not only the Republic of Croatia has hit us, but the whole world of this crisis is very likely to talk about the surplus again. So these forecasts that you've made about 5% of GDP growth in the next financial year I really expect that they are very likely to be realized and it's good that in fact a little bit in this whole situation, I would say even that when we talk about the state of society we bring a little bit of optimism that I'm sure it's based as we could hear today at your opening statement on this good basis, and this way I thank you here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14775	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14776	Thank you, Your Honor, so, of course, there have been recent weeks and certain questions as to whether the crown has erased everything we've done in the past four years, so, clearly, someone can come to that conclusion, but my additional argument is that we found a situation where we had a public friend somewhere at 80 and almost 7% of gross domestic product, if it hadn't been Covid according to all of our projections and trends that we had this year would have been below 70, but it's back to those 87, and then we can also say that we haven't been reducing this 4 years the share of public debt in GDP, it would have been over 100% today. I will remind you of this share of public debt in GDP was among other reasons why we had below the investment level of the credit rating, why we paid since 2015 was the highlight in terms of interest expenditure, almost 12 billion kuna, many times I said it in the Croatian Parliament, then it was the complete budget of the Ministry of Education, then there was the sport of this by them, so in just one year everything we gave for teachers, teachers and the whole We gave the cold drive for interest. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14777	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14778	Here I thank you, firstly, that I thank you for staying until the end of the debate, and you stayed longer than your Minister Ćorić's colleague for the interpretation of Krš-Pađen when you were present, and this started today morning, so I also thank you for having been at the debate from the beginning to the end. I'm glad you're going to consider all the amendments, I think that no matter who it is and that we're in the ruling majority I don't think it's a good practice to automatically reject something just coming from the opposition because the fast tables are replaced, and then if such a practice introduces damage to those who are currently in power. So we'll see, here's how you'll consider it. I hope you'll adopt some, not just consider it. As for that, to be interrupted by around 4 levels, so I said, let's change the laws, and in that sense I disagree with you that it might want to do so, so it won't be used, it's not just the budget for us Parliamentarians, it's for citizens. and not only for the adoption of the budget, but for the whole year [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And then it's one transparency for the work of all state institutions. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] And I think from that perspective... [[Intruder: Mr. Tomašević we must...]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14779	...we have to stick to time. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14780	Thank you very much, so here's what I said about the amendments. It's the only thing I can promise that we'll definitely consider them all, nothing by automation is going to be rejected, and if it's going to be clear that this is and in some way we're managing with the expected whether any of it will be accepted, we'll hear it on Monday, Tuesday. What about the very level of the calculation plan, etc., so this is the topic that I say I'm not running away from it at all, but we're always ready to consider any ways and modes that transparency and general interest in, for the analysis and analysis of the state budget rises to a higher level, where we're standing as such, but I also say this level has not been created by itself, is so someone among other things unargumented wanted but really when you take the entire structure of the budget to show one in detail enough to discuss it in one appropriate way amongst other things, but I'm already repeating the number of 1,300 activities itself says how complex it really is over 1,000 pages. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14781	Thank you very much. And finally, the last Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14782	Minister Maric your colleagues, you are not true in the party, but colleagues with HDZ on board also have objections that at this level people who are used to reading at the county level both in the city and in the municipal and themselves claim that many things cannot be seen here. I am sorry your very incorrect remark is that we are using a little bit, we who have initiated and a large part of us from the opposition who have asked for a change and a decision of the Constitutional Court on the assessment of the constitutionality of the Rules of Procedure, believe that we care in all these rooms to tell you people in the hall, we use it. And as for the law and why it is at this level and you yourself are aware that it was first of all the reason why it was not possible to print so much paper for a higher level, and now it is possible to make it searchable. for all the people out there. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14783	Thank you. Mr. Brumnic, you've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure on what part of the exposure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14784	I have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 235.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14785	No, not to what part of the exposure, to who? On before or on the lady...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14786	No, I raised a replica that wasn't enabled, and then I picked up a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 235.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14787	Yeah, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14788	Because I had two lines today, and on three lines you should be right, here. I didn't. And I'm telling you, I had two replicas of one on my colleague Tomašević and one on my colleague Bačić, and I didn't have a third one. [[Intruder: And according to the record it is.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14789	We won't, we won't fight in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14790	We're not fighting. I'm just the one who broke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14791	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14792	And I said what I think is hurt, and I want it to be written down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14793	And you think it's hurt that you had two replicas, not three. Well then let's investigate for, because we have, we have... [[/Intruder: That's right.]] [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14794	Take a look at the video and you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14795	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14796	And then if it is determined that there were two then how will I set up a replica for Mr. Maric?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14797	If you'll excuse me for a little while longer while I chair, then the next time I chair, we'll make an exception and you'll have the right to four replicas. Okay, I can't answer you differently than that. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14798	Thank you very much. The answer to the line, that I didn't, I didn't have that kind of intention to mention this, I just kind of pulled some kind of parallel if I said something wrong, I pull, I apologize. Honestly, I see you personally in this room every time I go out, but I don't see, irrelevantly, irrelevantly. In any case, it was about my idea, in fact, to just say that, among other things, when we have discussions on parliamentary committees, I think it's the same very, very quality, especially when the parliamentary committees are complemented by outside members, I'm talking about a very professional, very reasoned debate, and then not only are there colleagues, we from the Ministry of Finance, but also from the resolution ministries, and I think it's also one level at which this should be insisted, and then, of course, at the plenary session to sort of sum up and look through some broader and general form. And finally here's to not being demoted for future closing words, if and not a replica, you can tell me now that we're done discussing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14799	Here I have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14800	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14801	... When the debate is over. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-19-0.u14802	Finish the debate internally, inter alia, well. Tomorrow, so I am closing the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met, first we are discussing amendments, then amendments and then the law, but tomorrow we will continue at 9:30 with the amendment bill, listen to a little bit of the law, with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities. Goodbye and rest, please rest. Session interrupted at 21.09 p.m.
