ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188818	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, I welcome you and thank you for meeting all parliamentary parties to try together in this procedure to bring about appropriate legislative changes as soon as possible to respond as government and as the Croatian Parliament to the challenges posed by the pandemic on a global scale, and the epidemic of the new Covid-19 Aaron here in the Republic of Croatia. A few days ago, I said we were at war against the crown of the virus, the war against panic and the war against the social economic consequences of new circumstances. The world is facing this problem, Europe is facing this problem that, as you know, started from China just under 3 months ago and has infected 200,000 people so far and killed over 8,000 people. That's twice the infected we have now than 13 days ago. And twice as many deceased as nine days ago. Which means the dynamics of spreading this pandemic have accelerated significantly over the past two weeks. First in Europe and then after she slowed down in China a month ago. In Croatia fortunately, the situation is still under control and the number of infected is quite moderate and this morning as you could hear at the press conference of our civil protection headquarters is 81 infected. In the past week, however, the number of infected in Italy has tripled to over 31,000, in France more than tripled to nearly 8,000, in Germany it has tripled to over 9,000, in Spain it is almost multiplied to about 5 times to about 12,000. Unlike these countries, the number in Croatia is still limited and it is necessary to act right now to prevent lightning growth from happening in other countries. Croatia recognized this threat in time and welcomed it. We should remind you, this is a particularly important data, please and the public, and all of you to take care of it, that Spain exactly 17 days ago, 17 days ago had 84 infected, it's about how many Croatia has today. Today, the number of people infected in Spain is 12,000 in 17 days from 84 to 12,000. Therefore, in order to keep the situation as much under control as possible, we need to introduce more drastic measures to slow down the development of this epidemic that has affected Europe as much as possible. Therefore, at the recommendation of epidemiologists and the Crisis Headquarters, we have prepared measures that will be proposed after the Assembly has voted today to amend the Civil Protection System Act and will come into force to limit gatherings and social contacts as much as possible. At the same time, the government has prepared a package of economic measures. Before this epidemic, we can freely say that the economic situation in Croatia was satisfactory with a 3% healthy growth rate, balanced public finances, with a surplus in the current balance of payments account, with an investment credit rating and a further reduction in public debt. Therefore, we welcome this emerging situation more ready and resilient than it did a few years ago. How it is certain that the epidemic of the coronary virus affects economic activity in Croatia, and in this great battle for health, we must not put aside the struggle for every job. We therefore give economic measures an incentive to keep jobs, which is our primary goal, but also to address the problem of liquidity for those whose business activity has been reduced as a result of an outbreak of the coronary virus. To help the economy as a result of the epidemic, we have prepared at this stage 63 measures through 19 laws and a series of sublegal acts. One part of them is implemented without amending the laws or regulations, government decisions. The main measures we have prepared are the following: the postponement of public taxation to taxpayers with difficulties, the tax on income, the income tax, the contributions to pension and health insurance for three months with the possibility of an extension for another three months. The basic idea is that due to the occurrence of special circumstances, taxpayers are granted a delay in the payment of the tax debt, and after that also a free payment of the payment of the payment. In addition, the Minister of Finance shall be empowered to regulate all details by means of a regulation and, where appropriate, adjust the handling of any future special circumstances within a very short period of time. Unscathed loans to municipalities, cities and counties, HZZO and HZMO up to the level of income tax, cut-offs and contributions whose payment has been delayed or has been granted and the payment paid-off has been granted. We are taking over this liquidity gap on ourselves or to the state budget. We'll secure the financing and liquidity of the economy. HBOR and commercial banks are ready for moratories, delays, collection of credit obligations after the talks we have had are provided with crafts and funds to reprogramme existing loans. For example. loans for liquidity to economic operators, for the financing of salaries, directorial costs and other basic operating costs. Support for the preservation of jobs in sectors that will be affected by the coronary virus is also foreseen, financing of 100% of the cost of minimum net wages per permanent employee, provided that workers are not fired, provided they do not fire workers. So this measure is aimed at employers to keep and preserve jobs in such a way that HZZ will pay employers the amount of net minimum salaries, hence 3,250 kuna, it, as you know in our mandate, is increased by 100 euros, which will then be paid to workers. On top of that, employers can pay an additional part of the salary to which we encourage them through measures to postpone the payment of health and pension contributions and to pay taxes. So they don't pay health, pension, or taxes, they get 3,250 kuna net, and on top of that, they can pay the rest of the salary to their employees. I warn you once again, the measure will not apply to those who will fire workers, because this is a special circumstance, a environment that requires both responsibility and solidarity, a circumstance in which it is time for the unity of the nation. And I therefore expect economic operators, especially employers, to understand the moment in which we are located and to recognise the common objective of preserving jobs. Only if we're all as a solidarity society will we be able to get through this crisis better and it's important that we all carry a piece of the burden equally and in solidarity. This war with the coronary virus means we'll only get it if we're unique, if we're not unique, we'll have bigger problems and greater damage. We will also bring a series of sectoral measures to postpone payment of tourist membership, tourist fees, extend the duration of the permanent season measure by 6 months, increase the funds for micro loans, for crafts, for micro and small entrepreneurs up to 25,000 euros at the beginning of 12 months, unconditionally extending the duration of the project to co-finance projects from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion, the Operational Programme The effectiveness of human potentials, therefore, for the users of the European Funds. Rapid payments, as much as 75% of the demand for payment of EU projects, a delay in paying rents to employees and land users owned by the state. As far as schools are concerned, we've been in the process of digitising schools as you know, and we're one of the fastest, most effective and best prepared countries for new circumstances. Practically, from the first day of school termination, as you can see our youngest students from 1st to 4th have the opportunity to follow the school on the HRT programme, and everyone else from 5th and beyond, through that line of teaching and technology that supports a large number of users and which is better and more effective than many Western European countries. I also want to add a few more words about what is happening at European level. Yesterday afternoon another European Council was held through a video conference, it lasted 3 hours, the only topic being the measures we are taking against this pandemic. There is European solidarity, especially with those countries that have already suffered great sacrifices. Just to remind you, the number of deaths in Italy is almost, in the next 3 days will equalize with the total number of deaths in China, the difference is only 6 deaths, to understand the seriousness of the situation in our nearest neighborhood, and China has a billion and 400 million people, Italy has just over 60 million people, the number of deaths is now only 600 people. Do we understand the seriousness of the situation? Italy is not far from the Republic of Croatia. The measures we have taken relate to the first, limiting the spread of the virus, ensuring the necessary medical equipment and medicines, encouraging scientific research to find a cure or vaccine as soon as possible, taking joint measures to mitigate the economic consequences, and helping citizens, therefore to EU citizens who are currently in third countries and helping to return home. Two documents have been prepared, hence a guide for limiting optional travel to the EU, so how to limit the spread of the virus, all those who necessarily do not have to come to the EU that the next month will neither come nor come. Recommendations on border management in order to protect health and ensure the availability of goods and basic services, limited travel are designed to drastically reduce the inflow of people at the Union's external borders. The Union's external border must act as a security zone at this time because it is in the common interest of all Member States in the current circumstances with a coronary virus which does not know the borders, does not know the borders and is spread throughout the area, the regime of the external borders provides the possibility of a coordinated action by Member States and the aim of these measures is to close the external ones and allow members to find modes of transport, that traffic corridors work. As we agreed over the weekend with the new Slovenian government, with the government in Serbia, BiH and Hungary how to allow the transport of goods to be neither crowded nor supplies to stop. All these measures do not apply to citizens of the Union, therefore very important to bear in mind. We also took care in yesterday's debate and how to help by the Commission and to support the procurement of adequate medical equipment for stronger cooperation with industry, it is for the purchase of new frameworks of protective equipment and the purchase through a civil protection system. Since there is no vaccine for COVID-19 yet, some of the leaders gave signs at yesterday's meeting on the basis of information they have, that there are encouraging forecasts that the vaccine search could soon succeed. That's one of the better information we learned yesterday. As regards the normal functioning of the Council, it has been agreed for security reasons to postpone the European Council next week as scheduled and to hold a new video conference. The debate was also attended by Christine Lagarde, the President of the European Central Bank, who gave its analysis by following global market reactions to the economic consequences of this crisis, and is on the trail of exactly the measures we are doing here, how to secure liquidity, how to secure favourable loans, to reduce the risk of market fragmentation. A meeting of the Euro Group was held, Minister Maric will say something in his part of the exhibition, together with Maria Senten and the measures being taken, not only for those countries that are within the euro group, but also for those who are members of the Union at all. Yesterday, I also spoke with Commissioner Han, so the Commissioner for Budget, the Commission allowed the use of liquid funds to be used immediately, practically, in the amount of EUR 174 million, so 1.3 billion to be used for the faster payment of projects co-financed by the European Funds. The amount of total money we now estimate that this package legally adopted yesterday at the government and now we propose it in an emergency procedure for adoption in the assembly together with other measures amounts to more than 30 billion kuna. The tax deferral measures when we look at them in the period from 3 months to 12 billion kuna, the payment of this net salary that I was talking about to those employers who will keep the workers, I repeat once again that will keep the workers will be approximately 5 billion kuna. The loan moratorium or the HABOR loan war, according to banks, will total around 17 billion kuna. Sectoral measures by resources, you see that here a series of ministers are going to be approximately 1 billion. What we don't know at this point is how much money we're going to need for new loans, and we're going to need that. And the message before I give my word to Vice President Maric is that at this point the government is appealing to the highest possible degree of consensus with the political parties in the Croatian Parliament. We're going to be doing every little detail of what's going on in this crisis as much as we've done so far. 100% transparently inform you about informing the Croatian public, all of our citizens about the realities of the development of these new special circumstances, about the measures we are taking and we will ask for your support for the measures we represent today. In parallel with other members of the Union, this is a set of perhaps the most complete measures that are presented in any Member State. Tonight we did the first preliminary analysis because all countries notified the European Commission of what they were doing. Both our role as chairman of the Council and as a country that has so far responded much better and faster than others in mid-January, thanks to its preparation for this crisis, through the whole crisis that is ahead of us during this period that will be really demanding and challenging to lead with full responsibility and protection of national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188819	I thank the Prime Minister and now I call on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance to respect Zdravko Maric. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188820	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, so you've heard the introduction from the Prime Minister's context expands, and I'm just going to connect to it. So, what we have said countless times human health and human lives certainly as the main and fundamentally call it the zeroth goal, but no less valuable and no less important is the issue and economy that from the perspective of the economy itself and the effects and effects itself, which from its role in the social life of all of us together in the Republic. In recent days countless, indeed countless activities and measures we have taken indeed on a daily basis to make it possible, among other things, to provide adequate and supply and distribution and distribution of goods, mainly food and hygiene. We were witnesses ourselves, and we were reporting on these percentages, of course during the debate we can talk about how and in what way they have sacrificedly worked from our distributors, truck drivers, cashiers, warehouses and all those who are really diligent with healthcare professionals and everyone who participates in civil protection headquarters have done a great job and are doing a great job. As far as these economic measures are concerned, you've heard it several times, so I'm going to say, jobs and liquidity in terms of the continuation and functioning of the economy itself is at this point in the first place regarding these economic measures. And if you are reading this whole set of 63 measures, the number of laws that reach the number of 19 or a whole series of sublegal acts that will follow after the vote of the legislative proposals or which will be in the government's control, either within the authority of individual ministers, which should contribute to the implementation of this measure and already obtain certain results within a short period of time. We are aware that there will be a sure need for additional measures, revision of existing ones, etc. depending on how and how all circumstances will develop. We are aware of the fully high, dynamic categories of crisis caused by Covid-19 and all those implications that occur to the economy itself. In this part of how much time I have, but of course during the debate there are other colleagues, all the economical resolutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia were fully focused on creating these measures. I will immediately say that and you have seen and noticed since the first day at the table we also have the CNB, so you can see this synergy or joint action between fiscal and monetary policy, something that you too in the Croatian Parliament have repeatedly pointed out and warned that it is necessary, especially in these circumstances more than necessary such cooperation. There are also representatives of social partners in different associations that I don't list them now so that I don't accidentally abandon someone and there are also our points of resistance as HABOR and HAMAG BICRO in terms of certain measures. What I would like to say at this point is the implementation of these measures after this debate today is crucial. The criteria that we will define for each of these measures are primarily those which are horizontal in nature should be as simple, understandable and passable as possible. I'm going to start with this measure as far as the tax suspension is concerned. So, the Tax Administration is the headquarters of communication, e-tax, tax statements and any other kind, the modes will be fully distributed to our taxpayers. If you have been an orderly tax payer and if you already have or will have repercusions on your business in terms of this business income and the effects of the coronary virus you have already qualified for this measure which means delaying the collection of certain public charges. Through an article of the General Tax Law that we change on days, we speak from the perspective of the central budget, income tax, profit tax and contributions, but it opens up of course spaces and others locally, in the public sector wider, etc., which can also be decided after this on similar measures in which and how to facilitate these current circumstances to our entrepreneurs and citizens. What's important to say, so that delay to 3 + the additional possible 3 months is unambiguous and at some point when things, we hope, and start among other things in a better direction, will also allow an unambiguous payment of the debt that has been postponed, which each other who, in the meantime, will be generated as such. So maximum focus, of course, on the liquidity of the taxpayers themselves. Also, with credit institutions and HBOR and HAMAG-BICRO, we are working on a model concerning both suspensions of payment and collection of certain credit obligations, i.e. payments to these financial institutions, so moratorium. By a similar principle in the context of these 3 months and the time horizon, there will be a persistent and stationary point of FINA that will be networked and connected to all banks, there is the first criterion, as was the tax debt here in terms of settlement arrangements, so it will be here in terms of orderly payment of credit obligations. In the Republic of Croatia at 31.12.2019, over 90%, over 90% of the debtors or holders of certain types of loans or debtors were regulated payments. And again, on the same principle, some of them are already experiencing the consequences of their income side of this account and the loss or will feel it. This will also be a criterion, i.e. an instrument which will be able to qualify for such a measure. As far as this moratorium of payment delays and these previous measures are concerned, she must be welcome. However, a number of our entrepreneurs, craftsmen, mainly those small, medium and micro measures, will not be sufficient if, under the given circumstances, complete processes and their delivery of services or goods are stopped, they do not have any additional new income from which they could pay and pay directorial costs and the like, so the main part of this package is measures and measures to launch new models and packages that will mean crafts, new crafts, new liquidity in the system, precisely with the intention that I mentioned earlier to subscribe to salaries through overhead and some other obligations to suppliers. This is the part that you have now heard in, in the final word of the Prime Minister, which at this point is difficult to quantify if we cannot assume and know fully how much demand there will be, but we are sure that it will be and what is very important to ensure for all these measures at the central level regarding the state budget itself sufficient liquidity that all these measures can be implemented in one adequate way. All of you who come from the local level know that you are always particularly troubled, a concrete example, a delay in payments and income taxes. That's why we're changing the State Budget Act for this year, where you're going to be given a interest-free loan to transfer that liquidity facility to the central budget. Therefore, local self-government, HZZO, will not feel shortfalls in its liquidity during the periods of these delays in public fees. But at the same time, I will say, the administrative local self-government and I call on it to follow our example of whether changes to the General Tax Law and they get the possibility that in their own, in their own frameworks and in their capabilities they also come out to meet citizens and economics. There is counterpart Aladovic, who will be sure, during today's debate and further clarify also one of the most important horizontal measures, and this is a measure concerning the payment of not only the impact on gross but net wages, so up to the minimum wage for all those who, too, meet the criteria that will be prescribed within his section. I have to say that there will be a key and basic criterion along with those that we have so far listed, as you have heard so far, insurance and continuity of jobs and that is actually the basic message that has been derived from, in some ways, all these measures. In short, these measures, according to everything we have heard through public means of communication, through numerous meetings that we have taken, through dialogues that we are conducting and at European level are in line with both the trail and the expectations. And when we look at this European-level dialogue and the European Commission and individual European financial institutions such as the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Council of Europe Development Banks, and also global multilateral financial institutions, come out with certain financial packages that you are looking at are still not fully detailed, but are on the trail of what we are talking about today and these measures. And certainly because the national sources that we have at this point, which you internationally from European to global, are all something that we count on to be as necessary and necessary to meet all these measures and implement these, or implement them. So, as far as we're concerned, for sure, that today, everything we're discussing, like, I'd call it the first set of measures, which we think is very important to function and that we have the capacity to really put it into office after the vote, after the adoption of sublegal acts by the end of this week or the beginning of next week, brings and should bring and give certain effects, however, where luck, where we're lucky that we can and must stop at it. It is highly likely that we will have to come to you and the general Croatian public with new and additional measures, but of course what is important is that these people live within the shortest possible time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188821	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. We have a total of 25 replicas, 21 of which goes to the prime minister and four replicas to the finance minister. First up, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188822	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, I'd start here from what's important for the Republic of Croatia, and that's agricultural land. In the Republic of Croatia, we have 800,000 hectares of raw land. We've brought to this assembly the Agricultural Land Act in the last 2nd year. It's only 11,000 acres apart. In order to be, we have our own production when we boast about economic growth, the question is whether we produce enough agricultural land or bad policies, this is not a criticism, this is a proposal, to change the Agricultural Land Act urgently where local self-government brings programmes and that must be blessed by the mayors and only the Ministry of Agriculture. What are you going to do, I have a bill, I can give it to you and I can forward it, what will you do to get the farm land as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188823	Thank you. Thank you. Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188824	Thank you very much, Reverend Bull. Here is Minister Vukkovic who will take part in the debate later... to be in the details of this agricultural law package, it is important for us to get enough in agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is currently the most important message in these circumstances both in terms of production and supply and in terms of the security of our citizens. And therefore, if necessary and under new circumstances, we will see whether there is a need for further amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, the Minister, together with her associates, is already on the basis of these few months of implementation during our term of office, hearing whether all the problems that should have been solved have been addressed adequately. Therefore, if necessary, we will also use this context to improve this legal framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188825	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188826	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, there are craftsmen, entrepreneurs, say the government is offering us a delay, we don't need a delay, we need forgiveness, what you're offering us, you're only offering to postpone now after this difficult crisis, it's all waiting for us, and we already have business at stake, but now we plan to fire people, these measures are not enough. MOST has given concrete measures and I'm still inviting you here from this place. We're looking for stronger, more determined measures for our citizens, and we're willing to support these measures of yours, too, but we're asking them to be stronger and we're asking you to cut the spending of the state. It cannot happen to a respected prime minister that you are now buying 270 or more cars in the wake of this crisis when our citizens do not know what will happen to their business, give up on it, cut the cost of the state and pump all the money into our economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188827	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188828	Thank you very much. As far as measures are concerned, these are very round and quality measures. If you'd seen what we saw tonight and watched the measures of other countries, then you might have looked at them with a slightly different optics. If we tell our employers not to fire people, save jobs, show responsibility and solidarity, we as a state will give all of you a net of 3250 kn via HZZ to pay them to each of your employees. If you have reservations, pay wages and above, especially if you work, they won't all be in the same situation. You don't pay your health, you don't pay your pension and you don't pay your taxes. So we've peeled the cost system at a direct £3250 each, so we're talking 5 billion to how much that measure will cost, we've done everything at this point. Anything you need. Speaking today when you don't have to pay anything for total write-off, that's not the time. Now let's make the most of it, and then we'll see what happens next.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188829	Thank you. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188830	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister and Vice President, since we only have one replica, then I'm asking a general question for everyone. First of all, I can commend the moratorium to be made according to HAMAG or to all microloans, rural development,... etc., and I would go a step further if in the following fact, in the following measures it made a moratorium on all these loans instead of this stand-style that is proposed because what is it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When this is over in a month, two, three, we're not postponing our payment. And then the bank can sit down after three months. For all three wars. We're extending the moratorium's manual. So that would be kind of the way we should be looking at it, not after 2, 3 months. Comes all the way to the checkout. That's what I'm saying to business banks. So by the example of what was done for HAMAG and I'm just interested in another criterion for these entrepreneurs with difficulties, what criteria will be taken over there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188831	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188832	Here's the thing, about the question of whether the bank's gonna be looking for everything all of a sudden, it won't. They're going to go to the reprogramme without interest because that's the whole point. Minister Aladrovic, his entire team is working on criteria, it is not an easy job but these criteria are the most important, so we stress responsibility. I apologize for the short duration of these seconds for the replica, this contest I and I have now seen on the Internet, it will be done. There's no car purchase in a crisis like this, so we close that story in a second, and I don't even know who it is now and why it's announced, what's not necessary, will be put aside, what's necessary, will be channeled to solve the crisis. So it's closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188833	Now it's all yours, comrade Podolnjak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188834	Dear Prime Minister, with respect and appreciation for all the efforts the government makes and all the other state bodies in the war against the crown of the virus as you said, we are aware that these days there are limited and numerous constitutional rights and freedoms of our citizens, all of us. If you want from freedom of movement, the right to public assembly, the right to work, freedom of entry and exit from the state, entrepreneurial freedom, and for this reason I believe that this government should have proposed a roof intervention law with all measures and all restrictions on constitutional rights and the freedom of citizens with clearly defined what measures they are, which make them, until, for example, they are going to be in force by the Danish Parliament a few days ago and through 15 laws, you define special circumstances without a period of time, without definition, delegating certain powers and the highest headquarters of civil protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188835	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188836	Thank you very much, Mr. Podolnjak. I agree with you as a lawyer, we must take care of any restrictions on human rights, corporate freedoms, but at this point we all have a priority. If I'm looking at the numbers in Italy, Rome is out of here 45 minutes on a plane, there has practically died by now 2,500 people, then as Prime Minister, the most important thing for me is that the citizens of the Republic live in a way to avoid death, to be absolutely correct and concrete, there is no more important priority. Without citizens, there's no right. The laws were made very quickly, they are very precise, they are very specific, the dynamics of this situation requires that the Civil Protection Staff that communicates all transparently, there is nothing any of you know, and that as Prime Minister I know, power must have a maneuvering space to make decisions daily. The law can't cover everything, so we have delegated these powers to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188837	Now it's time for my colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188838	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Prime Minister. In your presentation, you did not specifically explain which sectors and entrepreneurs you intend to help subsidise salaries, so that it would not happen that only one of them is being assisted in this crisis. We have seen HBOR do this and what we from this pay phone need to send a message to people that we must all be involved and solid in this crisis, including us politicians. And I ask you to appeal to the local self-government units of the city of Zagreb, which has 218 local committees, 17 urban districts in which these people receive high fees, as well as politicians on school boards, administrative councils of kindergartens, I don't think that politicians should go out of this crisis and you can send a message with your authority that politicians should bear the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188839	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188840	As far as the sector is concerned, everyone who gets hit. There is no triage, and la carte, someone that, someone not, all who according to the criteria that are clear that they will be hit will absolutely get support. We talked a few days ago at this earlier meeting on the phone European Council all talked about air transport that had experienced practically stopped, planes fly but are empty, have two passengers each. What do you think these companies' expenses are? The transport sector at all? So, without any dilemmas, but the chain reaction is from the hotel to the food, agricultural, all possible operators, all will be affected. The situation is, this is such an extraordinary circumstance that there is no one who will not be touched, so these measures are horizontal. As far as these fees are concerned, it's a matter for the city of Zagreb, we'll appeal whatever we can rationally reduce, contribute to the resolution of the crisis, I think we'll be guided by it, that's clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188841	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188842	Your Honor, Prime Minister. Here we have seen here a whole series of measures that the government has proposed, but you're talking here about that entrepreneurs won't have to give taxes and taxes. What about the basic salary? If someone makes zero kunas this month, and many will make zero kunas, where will they even be able to pay that net salary, that's a very big question? And the other thing here, it wasn't about one measure that would be necessary, and it's about a number of new unemployed, so I personally know dozens of people who have lost their jobs these days, mostly from the hospitality and tourism sectors, and there will be hundreds of thousands soon, we haven't seen a single proposal of these measures here among these, and I think it's a population that's the most vulnerable right now. Here's your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188843	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188844	Thank you very much. Therefore, the whole package of measures also refers to the possibility of giving trade funds for costs, for salaries to those who will be threatened. I appeal once again in these few days, I said the other day, a thin line between serious responsible behavior and panic behavior, a very thin line. And our debate here must have a fine nuance of responsible debate today, take action, solve the problem calibrated, measured by those who need to, and not create and generate panic. So I appeal to employers, don't fire people, don't fire people. That's one of the most important messages here. If we want to preserve jobs to preserve them, the state will replace this part that it can, not all are equal forces in what form are financial. Some will have the means to function normally, those who will not pay less, but crafts and liquid assets will be there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188845	Thank you. Comrade Orepic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188846	... You put in crafts that will bring back the people who are prevented from working. The only logic we have at this point, whether we want to admit it or not, is the fact that we need people who can't earn something by their work or who are prevented from doing anything have nothing to pay. [[Specially enabled.]] The word delay, delay anything in this sense it accumulates, increases the debt of those people who are prevented from working at this time and that accumulation of debt comes by three months on the back of those people. These funds that we are going to put in and that I welcome should go to the expense of public spending. I think it's the right direction to intervene if we want to preserve the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188847	You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188848	The government here proposes laws, proposes measures that allow us to function, that people have what to live on, whether they have operational activities in certain societies, that's what these measures are all about. Of course, the government is already, all the ministers, the finance minister, so it's working out that everything that's not necessary on the bulky side of the budget is not being spent, so nobody here is irrational that they're going to be making it like the situation is normal. In each of these laws you have a formula of special circumstances, we've been under these special circumstances for almost two months now. We in the government on the subject of this coronary virus, these epidemics have been meeting for the last two months, every day, not every day on television, but there is no day that I as Prime Minister have not dealt with this topic. And she did not surprise us as many other countries, in health or in financial terms. Now is the moment for social responsibility and political maturity for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188849	Comrade Dobrović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188850	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, the messages of community and solidarity are good, I welcome them, and very likely these measures and legislative proposals will be passed with the great majority. However, I would very much like additional measures to be defined during the implementation and to address very large opportunities. A billion EUR of food imports is an opportunity to strengthen our sector, to bring their products to our customers. By the year it could be an additional billion exports. Furthermore, there is a great synergy in connecting which we do not see for now, if HEP imports coal from Colombia, and our wood processing sector has a large surplus of its product is not a very good opportunity to connect these sectors, in addition HEP has already acted as a guarantor of the lease of LNG terminals etc. There are European funds that could be primarily directed towards domestic products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188851	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188852	Thank you very much. Representative Dobrović, you know that we have already promoted this policy from field to table, just to force both purchase and consumption of domestic agricultural products. So that's the logic that the ministry and all possible agencies and all the actors that exist in agriculture as well as the entire sector are trying to apply. This is a great opportunity to further encourage it. Let's see what our capacities are, what our options are. Under normal circumstances, the market is open, if there is a slowdown in supplying some imported products that were otherwise particularly popular, I am sure there are many on our market to make up for it. As for the merger of the example of HEP or our wooden processors, I think it's normal and it'll follow. So everything at this point will be rational, functional, mutually beneficial and in order to solve the crisis we will take. And this isn't the end of the measure. We might be coming to the government tomorrow with additional suggestions. Things change real fast.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188853	Comrade Ljubic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188854	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow Members and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, I congratulate the government first, the civil protection headquarters, the epidemiological and infectious service in the way they manage this crisis so here are more than 3 weeks after the first case we are still in an acceptable number compared to other countries. What I can see, therefore, is the fact that the number of people killed in the EU itself and on the hotspots located around 300 million people approaching the number of deaths in China says that Europe is generally through the system of the World Health Organization of the Regional Office for Europe and the EU has not shown an efficient and coherent approach to managing this crisis. On the other hand, I am pleased that the information you shared with us earlier that European solidarity was decided at the EU Council session because I was very concerned a few days ago that some countries had decided to limit exports of the products necessary to combat the coronary virus, so This new solidarity will benefit Europe and the new future. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188855	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188856	The logic is to maintain the single market as much as possible, as much as possible. Of course, it is likely that each country will keep an eye on whether, for example, there are enough protective masks on its market. That makes perfect sense. And at the end of the line, the decision that we made on Saturday at the government's session, that we don't want anyone to profit from speculation and behavior that isn't correct in this crisis. We returned the prices on January 30th. On January 30th, it was the day the World Health Organization declared the coronary epidemic a virus. It's not possible that something that's on the 30th, not this, but something like that cost one, that costs ten now. We're not gonna let that happen. We don't let anyone profit us in this situation in a way that's unfair. As far as our exports are concerned, if there is a shortage of a particular product, the minister of the economy can ban these exports, it is not at this time disputed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188857	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188858	Dear Prime Minister, you said that in this crisis everyone has to give up or that everyone has to bear a even burden. So I call you here to show you the works, not only the demagogue that you honestly think and to cut the wages of all of us in the assembly and yourself as prime minister, because that would show you're willing to share the fate of your citizens, and not act like you don't care what happens. Also, the postponement of the payments that you are offering and the tax is no solution because ultimately these people will have to pay contributions and taxes for something that they could not achieve any economic benefit at all, because there is no economic work. What you're suggesting is that people take loans, pay contributions and taxes to people who don't work, that's a crazy story that won't affect you positively, people will get fired, they won't stop firing. The reality will convince you to go astray, if you believe it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188859	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188860	Thank you very much. Agent Pernar, allow as you have your logic and we have our logic, our estimates, our measures, comparatively considered, analyzed. As far as solidarity is concerned, we'll do whatever it takes. I don't need your demagogy right now to suggest to us as a representative what degree of solidarity we're working on. This government understands the situation in which the state, this government understands the situation in which society is, this government understands the situation of every citizen. Whether you see it or not is something else. We follow this problem in detail more than other countries and take measures that are appropriate, timely, proportionate and comprehensive, that is the meaning of these measures. You're talking about demagogy, not us. It's very important that the public understands it and knows it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188861	Comrade Lackovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188862	Thank you, Mr. President. The replica goes to the prime minister and Minister Maric, therefore, I welcome all the measures aimed at helping the economy, but there are still others that should be installed in my opinion, and it is that this deadline of 20 January for changing tax and value added tax is extended for all those taxpayers who have income of up to 7.5 million kuna, because in this way the state will actually give up pre-payments of VAT before it is charged by entrepreneurs, but also during the duration of the crisis in those branches of the economy that are directly affected by these measures that and over 7.5 million have revenues during the duration that they pay value added tax by the invoice. Also, the caterers are now really on strike and will be hit for the longest time, perhaps now is the chance to return the value added tax to 13% because there is a significant number of jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188863	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188864	Thank you very much, Mr. Lackovic. The government has the responsibility that during the period ahead of us there is funding for the health system, the government has the responsibility to have funding for pensions. We must have some part of our tax income to ensure those who are now on the defender of your health, the health of all of us, the health of every citizen. The healthcare system must now have everything it needs and somewhere it has to come from. At this point, our focus on income tax, on profit tax, on health contributions, on pension contributions. We'll consider it when it comes and if the time comes and other tax forms. At this point, there's no focus on VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188865	Comrade Karlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188866	Thank you. Your Honor. Well, here's almost no challenge that hasn't been put into your government in three and a half years, like this one is now very, very difficult and unpredictable. What I would like to set means when we take measures like these that are very positive and have to be brought, of course, they always affect one part of people who are kind of negative. So I'd like to ask you one question, or one request, if there's a small part of it, it's not a big problem, a small part of it that doesn't have the ability to pay for electricity and it has power outages, it's usually socially endangered families, and it has kids that go to school. So my request, they've called me a few of them asking if HEP at this time temporarily turn on the power so they can follow the class on TV. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188867	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188868	Thank you very much. Agent Karlic, you got it, you got it. We're going to call the president of HEP, and we're going to give him a warrant to get all these cases we have to give them power under these circumstances, and we're almost out of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188869	Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188870	One group of our workers has gone through these measures undetected, and that is 50,000 of our sent workers working in EU countries who are now going to return to Croatia in view of the closure of jobs there in those countries and in these measures that you have presented they are forgotten. What should be done is that, on returning to Croatia, they simply have to get financial compensation because they will end up at the Employment Service and that is what the Government predicted, but I don't think it's clear enough for employers to have the right to pay those workers a minimum wage or something the Government predicted. Our view as a Democrats is that, apart from the minimum wage, the government should predict that 70% of the net salary is paid because it's something that will keep jobs. I'm afraid only minimum wage won't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188871	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188872	Thank you very much, Mrsic. We will see whether the coverage is complete or not, I must see it with Minister Aladrovic, who is now at another meeting, but in any case, the measure will cover all those who need to. 70% is still a lot of funding for what you're saying. We're making sure that we want to sail through this crisis, and that we have what we control, manage and take measures, that's very important. I said we were more resilient than before, and we were much more resilient than before. You saw yesterday at the government meeting that we invited the governor of the CNB to give us information from the monetary policy aspect, from the aspect of the reserves and everything they do to maintain the stability of the financial system and these measures must be complementary. We're all in the same boat. And as for these workers, I'll consult the minister and see what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188873	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188874	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Prime Minister. I would warn you of one decision you made yesterday, it's a decision to postpone the rent for agricultural land, you've stated in a decision to postpone it by three months. What I would point out to you is that even in the current Agricultural Land Act, which will apply to all new tenders, payment is scheduled by the end of the year, and according to previous tenders, the time agreed is 30 June. So now you've made your decision even shorter by looking at that extension than you've given the new law, so here's what I'd like to ask you to consider that decision and change it. And I would certainly ask you to consider also the possibility to write off a part or a whole, especially that part of the government because it was brought by previous governments. In 2012, the Government of Zoran Milanovic made a decision on the write-off, you have now made only a decision to postpone payments in this situation, so here, please consider these two moments in your follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188875	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188876	Thank you very much, Agent Panenic. Here's when it comes during today's debate that part, here's Minister Vukkovic, and we'll see exactly what you want, if we can, we'll figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188877	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188878	The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers. As we can see, these measures you've predicted actually cost now at the first estimate of more than 35 billion kuna. It is very important to say to the public, those who are Eurosceptics, that this includes a measure that will withdraw funds from the European Social Fund just to settle this part of the minimum wage for the over, according to your forecasts, 400,000 employees who are in the private sector, the real sector, about 1/3 of the real sector's employees, which had no amount and very important, and this is also important to note that the public has knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188879	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188880	Thank you very much. This is true, everything that can be redirected, realizes the consequences of this crisis, the unforeseen circumstances and will be related to the European funds will be channelled to the place where it is most needed and the fact that it is quite important when you mention the context of our EU membership, so not only this funds that I mentioned after the talks with Commissioner Hahn, so 174m euros, but it will probably follow more measures at EU level, to remind one important fact, that Croatia, by which case already in the euro area, would be easier to deal with this crisis, would not have a question of exchange rate, would not have people who sell, buy, speculate at this point, at the very moment, and some of the representatives would not exist, would have access to the European Central Bank's reserves practically unlimited. And that's why the whole job we're doing is meaningful and good to be even safer under unforeseen circumstances. It's also important that the public understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188881	Comrade Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188882	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, I sincerely thank you for being so far and for doing what you are for entrepreneurs, what you have done already and in this crisis situation you have shown and you are truly showing one credibility and security to our entrepreneurs, of course it is difficult to predict everything, but you would ask another question. We have people who are in self isolation and masters go around the houses and work and people don't report themselves in isolation, so it would be convenient to say in which self-insulation, not to invite citizens to come, of course it's unfortunate to say that they should be marked, but in some ways they should hear it because people have already called me, so they told me, so it would be convenient to say who's in self-insulation that nobody comes to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188883	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188884	Thank you very much, Representative Misic. When I said at first that this was a time of responsibility, here is the element of subjective responsibility of each individual of the most important importance. The most important thing. If someone's in self-insulation, they're in self-insulation. Then no workers, no masters, no repairs, no going to the store for a while, no. There isn't. A flabby approach leads to a rapid spread of the infection. People have to understand that. This is no joke. The situation is very serious, the data I was talking about, so not far away, here from us, Italy, Trieste is closer to Zagreb than Split, to be quite simple, we have to be very responsible, each individual. If he's in self-insulation, he's standing there, he's not coming out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188885	Thank you. Comrade Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188886	Thank you, Mr. President. This set of measures was due, good and necessary. However, I think that, for example, the Law on Forests relating to the OkFŠ and its turn towards agriculture or forests remains a parafiscal imposition, since the whole economy is at risk, I think that I should think not only about prolonging such parafiscal burdens but also about abolishing them, most parafiscal burdens especially as my colleague said, my paying rent in agricultural land but the write-off of leases then for one last year and not just some write-offs, and now it is very important to say as never so far that agriculture can be only on the market, that is what we said that agriculture is now important to us, so to free agriculture of all imposings and to make all agricultural resources operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188887	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188888	Thank you very much, Representative Križanić. I suggest that the minister explain these agricultural proposals a little later because as we go together, we don't have the usual time to discuss it, but she can report for 5 minutes, so she can touch this question of the sum of the common useful functions of the forest, is that, that OKFSH is not the most famous acronym of all of whom she has, as well as these elements of the lease, to see which direction we go, which we can do, to relieve ourselves, to facilitate this situation. So the purpose of the measures is to go for us to have as little cost as possible, and that thing works, that's logic, and that's the philosophy of these legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188889	A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188890	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I think today we should point out that the government has opened up a space for intervention with these measures. Literally intervention and what is very important, both you and Vice President Maric stressed that these measures are practically flexible, open and that they will act as it is a situation that imposes, and I think we should simply discuss it today because we can bid to the point of unconsciousness. However, you mentioned one thing that I think should be particularly highlighted and that is the responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. And those who give and those who receive. Because if it's not a responsibility for solidarity, then we'll have a lot of things. And another one for me might be the key thing. You have managed to do one very important thing, for the same table you have brought a complete financial sector and those at this moment who have a huge financial potential have practically made available and that is what guarantees the interoperability and feasibility and great potential of this economy with what the Republic of Croatia has when to compare it as an EU member. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188891	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188892	Thank you very much. Right, these analyses of yours are quite accurate. What I must commend, I must commend the first reactions of the parliamentary parties, the employers' reactions, the union reactions, the reaction of the banking sector, all practically the sector and mine, and it is our feeling that most of us have made enough sense of what our circumstances are and how important everyone's contribution is. And especially important is what you said and the responsibility of those who give and those who receive, so that there is no model of behavior that is profitable, that we must avoid, that we must avoid. Many of you are also employers and know what I mean, it's not good for us to have a situation where everyone is aware of people's discharge, but on the burden of the state through HZZ. That's why I said, whoever fires the workers won't get what, what gets the other Let's keep the workers, keep the jobs, and be solid while this is going on. [[Intruder: Thank you]] That's the whole point of the package.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188893	Comrade Tudjman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188894	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, for commendation or for supporting this series of changes in the 20 laws that go towards retaining jobs, to help economies and economies. However, I think that logic should also be kept for profuturo and that this Public Procurement Act should be amended, that this logic should be built in to account for the provision of jobs for economic operators and the economy as a whole, because it often happens, and that foreign competitors, or those who appear in competition, have an advantage. Other countries have already installed these mechanisms Is counting both VAT and, and, and, and, and, and cuts like [[Intruder: Thank you]] as useful. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188895	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188896	Thank you very much. There's the Minister of Economy... Well, thank you, in whose portfolio it's a matter of public procurement. [[Speaker not enabled]] This is a very important issue that we have already discussed at government levels and if there is a need to focus in these circumstances on faster procedures, we are still, of course, legal and transparent, but which I can put on the service, so to speak, domestic producers, we will also be leading this aspect to be regulated. Thank you for your initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188897	And the last replica for the Prime Minister, colleague of Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188898	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear President of the Croatian Government, all praises for the speed and quality of the proposed measures, all these measures with impatience expect and listen among other tourist workers and bonds of payment of the tourist tax, so I would only supplement since you said in your presentation, and through the media only underlines the possibility of paying a tourist tax in special circumstances as a postponement of payments. However, the law itself, the draft law supplementing the Tourist Tax Act also provides for the possibility of exempting from paying the tourist tax, which will be possible for the Minister in charge of tourism, by adopting the rules. Well, once again, our tourist employees know that it will be possible to free them from payment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188899	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188900	Thank you very much. Dear MPs Martinchev-Juricev, there is also a tourism minister who will also participate later in this debate. The idea is the original delay depending on the development of the situation given the sector's sensitivity of direct impact, so in circumstances if the borders are closed, if there is no movement, it is more than clear that it is a sector that is particularly important to us, of which it has 20% of GDP. The Republic of Croatia is a country that has five times as many tourists per year as it does now, almost no other destination, at least I don't know whether there are any, then it's very important. And last I would like to say, so make sure this financial package is practically half as heavy as we've been costing all the highways built all these years in the Republic of Croatia. This package is huge for us, huge. And as things develop, they'll probably get bigger. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188901	I thank the Prime Minister. Now, let's do replicas for the vice president and the finance minister, first fellow Glasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188902	Your Honor, did you make an action plan for the worst-case scenario? How long is this gonna take? For the first quarter, what will this effect be for inflation, economic growth, we don't know anything about it, you have some judgments on that matter? As far as health is concerned, this is more for the minister of this health here, do we have enough money for fans, for oxygen, for equipment, for this, for intensive care if there's a worst-case scenario? Is that in place, that means? We're gonna call retirement doctors if this gets worse? It's just some of the questions you'd like to answer is now it's time to, we should have cut up earlier for all of these absolute priorities. When, when the economy is a little bit better, then it is spared, of course, that we have for the rest. What's it gonna look like by the 4th month? Some predict, e.g. The Germans, the Institute of, uh, epidemiology, that this will take another 2 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188903	My colleague, Vice President Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188904	Thank you very much. Dear representative, well, it's a good thing you quoted that it's possible and various analysts and institutes and so on. They come out with some estimates, but as regards some official assessments of any countries, any institutions including the European Commission, I think that it is difficult at this time to expect a decided as well as in our case because there is one key variable missing that no one can assess in this health view how long and how intense this will take. Because what's important is when you mention that word black or blackest scenario, I think it's a responsibility for all of us to work towards it in some way, but of course act on all possible fronts and in all possible circumstances to contribute to it from our side. But you can see for yourself that as from the virus itself, many other things are not in our jurisdiction, or we are like such exogenous. This set of measures I said and introducely elaborated is something that, within a short time period, can function and make some kind of contribution. For further and further certainty, we must expect both additional and new measures and the detailing of these same ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188905	Comrade Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188906	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, in communication with citizens about what we are talking about the last few days is one of the main issues and the most common issues that arises, or commentary, is that the delay in public giving in itself is not a solution for all but many citizens say that it is actually a push or a build-up of debt. What you would say about how you would somehow put your trust in the citizens about this concrete measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188907	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188908	Thank you very much. Your Honorary, as well as this earlier one, is therefore advocating that these are measures that we now consider to be feasible. What's important to say, delaying payments is something that directly affects their liquidity. I said after that deadline that whatever he was 3 + 3 or depending on the development of the situation that will take place in the weeks ahead of us, of course that citizens and all taxpayers will also be able to have a round-the-clock payment, an interest-free payment. It's not in anyone's interest, nor do we think about it at all, and I can also say in the context of banks that at some point when things start to get better and we see the end of all of this all at the same time as such, and then we bring back that same taxpayer, debtor or whoever is in an independent situation. So, what's an uninvited situation, what's very important to say, so this particular element of the meal payout, the unambiguous meal payout after this period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188909	Comrade Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188910	Thank you very much, Vice President. The economic consequences of the corona virus are already visible, but are not nearly visible how destructive and deep and these 63 measures are the government's reaction is spot, direct, serious and responsible. In particular, it is a good moratorium on credit obligations, but it is important that this moratorium is unambiguous and that banks or credit institutions do not charge any compensation for the reprogramme, any other costs. But all entities must be involved in this process, especially some business. From today, HEP should not invoice electricity to employers, but only electricity consumption. State properties and any other institution that rents a business space to others should not be invoiced by the end of the year for renting a business space. Also, let the teleoperators not offer us 15 GB extra, but let them cut the price by 30% to be competitive, so that we can be competitive with prices abroad. Croatian Chamber of Commerce Some membership shall be suspended by the end of the year and all measures shall be minimum by the end of the year. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188911	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188912	Thank you very much. Your Honor, of course, this first part and I mean in general your replica as being among other things and realizing that ours today at this very moment all of us who are participating in this debate, the responsibility to send among other things and such a message. What's in the intelligence of the state, what we can do as such we do. I can say about credit institutions, really from the first day of this whole case and the whole, the whole discussion we're having has shown a high level of understanding, but also, of course, as always as the devil is in the details we want to achieve that really all that we're talking about today is the most favourable conditions that are, whether we're talking about fees, whether we're talking about certain interest and those moratories. At the same time, I repeat again, the CNB has been involved in the treatment of these same measures being adequately followed by the supervisor himself. And for all these other measures, either at the local level of public companies, it's good to hear a voice from the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188913	Comrade Sponza, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188914	Dear Mr. Minister, you have called on local self-government units to contribute as well. Mr. Minister, and I can't speak. Here, you invited local self-government units to contribute and I absolutely agree with you that everyone should make their contribution from state to local level. However, I believe it is important to amend the Law on the municipal economy which would allow municipalities and cities to contribute precisely in such a way that, during 2020, both municipal compensation and municipal contribution are not strictly intended incomes but can also be used for health, social, entrepreneurship, fire, etc. We will make an amendment and I believe that as Government you will adopt it so that just about all municipalities and cities can contribute to this challenging and difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188915	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm only asking for discipline and not speaking out loud. Here's my colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188916	Thank you very much. My apologies, counselor, but I understand everything, I've heard everything in time, so I'm glad you've also positively assessed a very clear message. So, I just spoke to some of the other local colleagues, and I repeat again, this unambiguous loan is actually on the side of the state according to local self-government to bridge that liquidity gap for local self-government, at the same time opening up space. We'll consider all your suggestions, and I've talked to my colleague Stromar about that sort of thing. So, in any case, the idea is that, in this short period of time at all instances, it clearly seems to affect, among other things, this element that we have all characterised as crucial or very important at this point, which is the preservation and liquidity and jobs and wages. So any measure that can and should and will make it easier for citizens and employers from any level, we start from our level of central state, but we also appeal and open space for others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188917	Thank you. We've come to an end with replicas, so now I'm asking the committee's rapporteur if she wants to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs will speak for 20 minutes, 14 clubs and 24 individual debates have appeared so far. Just a colleague of Peter's. In individual debates, those who are up at the galleries or on the side should come to their place and speak of course from their place, then please colleagues just move away from those who sit next to them. Here you go, colleague Petrov, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188918	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the government. At the very beginning, on behalf of the MOST, I would like to thank all women and men, all the health care workers most affected in this crisis, all those people working today in the police education sector, in the transport services, all those who bear the greatest burden of this crisis today. At the very beginning, I would like to sum up what I heard through the presentation of the government's representatives. So, at this point, the government is offering a postponement of payment of public contributions, we believe that this is not enough, that there should be forgiveness, write-off, exemption from public giving. The government, on the other hand, is saying it will introduce more favourable loans, and we're telling you that that's not enough either, that they should go to the economic sector and that's the summa summarum of everything. We've had a lot of bad things in the Republic of the last decade, we've had Homeland War, destruction, and then we've had bad economic system management, because that's how it must have been said, we've had an economic crisis, and only after we've managed to raise our head above the water to catch the air then we've been hit by an epidemic. Literally the moment you took your breath with the air she pulled you down. They can conclude that citizens simply don't know when we see the last three decades they don't know about a different situation than the crisis, they're in a normal state of crisis. But okay, we now have a crisis that we can't blame anyone for because they showed up, but what we can do and what we can do today is the responsibility of the government first, and after that, all the political actors will react to, which brings us to two key issues. The first question, in what form is our economy, as this crisis awaits, coffee is our starting position? The second question is, how are we going to react to this crisis to reduce the consequences? As for the form, we have to be honest and say it's not good. And now all I'm gonna say is I'm not doing it because I'm just criticizing because it doesn't make any sense to nag too much over fate, where we are, we can't get out of this skin no matter what years and years of missed opportunities we have. But I must point out that our form is not good, that we depend highly on imports, some products we don't produce at all. On the other hand, for those we have the assumption that we can produce them we left even in the agricultural segments, food production is also dependent on imports. We have an economy that is not competitive in the international and European environment and before the crisis caused by the epidemic, it does not attract enough investment, highly dependent on tourism, and that is why we will now suffer even more than some other countries will suffer. Finally, we must also admit that the necessary reforms have not been implemented in the last few years so that we can expect a much stronger crisis like this. What measures should be taken? Some measures should be temporary, but some measures that are now to be applied should also be long-term. Those measures that are temporary should go immediately, but except immediately and without hesitation they should be such that people can now be helped to live normally, people are now looking for and want to see whether they will be paid, whether employers will close their jobs, send people home or the government will jump into their aid. And I think the state needs to take that burden, it needs to be helped, but I'll tell you how. We were in the government the other day when we were called as political actors to discuss and mentioned the various crises that occurred in Croatia, one of the crises mentioned was the bank crisis and then I told you what I'm about to tell you today, that, at the moment the crisis rocked the state's bank had come to the rescue, the state had rescheduled the banks. She took them out because they're the blood flow of the financial economic system, yes. But I want us to be honest, to be fair, not to be hypocritical, I want us to help the economy and the citizens in the same way. We need to be honest about everything, and we need to do it with direct measures, quick, decisive measures so that people today can get paid and can service their obligations, not to be terrified as they are now, while everyone is watching us live tomorrow. Why am I telling you this? Because the measures you've proposed here are insufficient. They may be at the right time, maybe already a little bit late, but they're not enough. And what might be the worst of all, if you took all your measures, all fit under one denominator, and that's a delay. The delay is not the same as forgiveness, and I think you should understand that. And that means for the citizens when this crisis is over, everything you've put them off will come toll. Very clearly, it's a delay, that's what you're offering citizens today. It is not forgiveness, it is not a release from contributions and how do you expect citizens entrepreneurs who today and without a crisis to barely pay contributions and while working, how do you expect them when they are not working, how do you expect them to pay accumulatedly for all these contributions? This is where the state needs to jump in. That's the mission of the state. If you did it for the banks then you should do it for those who feed you. It's been 30 years. Citizens are entrepreneurs who feed the whole system. You need to be honest. It is also not the same if you give them more favourable loans, unambiguous loans, or you give them grants because these loans will still need to be paid back, and they did not work, they could not earn for you. You have to give grants through which they will have crafts to keep these people at work, so it is not minimum enough, so put yourself in that position to send you both home and one and another married couple, people partners, so they put you all on the minimum, and then they accumulate it with a delay and hand you an account after the crisis, and you didn't get a chance to pay them for it. I think we need to be correct. I'll say it again, I'm not criticizing you, in order to criticize you, I think that in a situation like this we all need to work out the best solution. But I must warn you that you've given the quantity, you've given 63 laws or proposals, measures, whatever, but lacks intensity, strong enough intensity, lacks strong enough quality. In this crisis, while most of the economy has completely stopped you, when tourist employees have no one to expect in their facilities, when restaurants are closed indefinitely because they know that they do not have guests at the moment, nor will they have guests, when hundreds and thousands of small and micro entrepreneurs are anxious because they do not know, because at this point they cannot provide services, can't purchase goods, can't keep their workers, you can use your powers to get grants into the economic sector, you have offered a delay. And then you say that you've brought billions into the system, you haven't brought people in billions, you've delayed taking them, and you're going to take all these billions. And you'll take them from the people you didn't allow to work, not you, the epidemic. But let the people try to understand, and they will give you; they are used to being burdens, and they will pay you for it. And you people realize that at this point they can't pay, that they can't even make money to pay you later, that you need to be honest, that we can't be hypocritical. If the state has rehabilitated the banks then the state needs to resuscitate the businessmen in the same way, it needs to be rescheduled by the citizens, it's just, it's solidarity. I've heard the word "solidarity" at least 20 times today, that's solidarity, that's justice. We're looking for grants, you're offering delays and more favourable loans, and the state still wants nothing, everything will be charged later. And then I don't understand where the paradigm change is? We'll take everything. You must know that at this point and I think it's fair that the citizens know, besides most people in the Republic of Croatia today, I think you'll agree with me that we can talk about the crisis at a time when at least 15% of the travel arrangements are cancelled. And what's heard is cancelled now over 40%. I think it's clear what we're in. If you don't have a functioning tourism sector that you've made a dominant branch of the last 20 years, when it collapses your construction sector, are we in an even worse crisis? And at this point, these little contractors in the building, in turn, cancel their jobs, in turn those for whom they were supposed to do business, cancel their orders. Well, there's been a situation where you literally can't get a plate for your apartment adaptation, and everything cares. You can't stand on the sidelines like that, talk about a delay, wait. I've heard that you're saying that this doesn't have to be a final condition, a final measure, that things can change, I'm telling you that the danger is to delay. And what is especially important when we mention the word “solidarity, ” you know what solidarity is? When the state says we will bear the burden together with our citizens and our entrepreneurs. It's solidarity. Solidarity isn't just about social human solidarity. So, from the state, county, local, there's a local level of trust me in the budgets of all that's been imposed on the last 20 years of unnecessary items. You know how they used to say that in the former Yugoslavia? It's only about the first time they're hooked up, and then they forget they're here, and you're taking the money. Well, believe me, if we started cleaning up the deposits, you'd find a lot of resources that could be poured into the economic sector at these moments, you could give to the citizens. It's solidarity. I invite you to such, among other things, such solidarity. I'll quote the Italian prime minister here what he said the other day. The Italian prime minister said we are at war, as our Prime Minister quotes, and in the next period we will have a war economy. I don't think it's been that long, I think certain people remember how this war economy worked, and if you tell me now that there's no pay for it, I'll tell you during the war the tourist companies paid the salary even though there was not one single tourist. And it wasn't that long ago. I know it's always easier to criticize, I'll repeat it the third time, we're not here for criticism we've come to give you better measures, stronger measures, not to delay the situation and we will remain consistent in defending both citizens and businessmen because they are the ones who maintain this system. Those measures you have proposed should be strengthened. It is temporary to take strong measures, so I will tell you not to postpone but to release from contributions and other public contributions, not more favourable loans than grants. And that's the only way you can stop the consequences, the economic consequences of this crisis. I just don't want us to get into a situation soon that all that I'm saying today is the Prime Minister in about a month, two, three, when there's going to be a flood. We have a chance if we react quickly, if we don't react quickly, it's waiting for us. And in addition to the postponement, aside from the write-offs, the exemption from contributions, other than grants, we consider it necessary to cover the costs of sick leave for workers, that there should be financial support for a part-time period, that birth leave rights should be extended from 6 to 12 months so that women can stay home at that time during such a crisis and epidemic. To extend the rights of fixed seasons from 6 to 12 months, and other than such strong, fast measures, I will repeat to you that the measures should be taken at this time and those long-term measures that should remain. If you're going to talk about this segment there's also a reduction in bureaucracy, acceleration of administrative procedures, reduction of the tax press. One of the first measures in this section is the abolition of the obligation to pay pre-taxes at ages, and people are easier to understand as advances, advances. And we've been mentioning for a year and that peaceful act without epidemics, especially today, an advance serves to lend the economy to the state, to give the state money in advance. Before this epidemic, before this crisis, we said it was impossible, believe me, this situation is completely impossible, don't ask the businessmen to stop it. Distended entrepreneurs of profit tax pay by increasing their relief for reinvested profits, so that they can invest more in their businesses in their companies, so that they can save as many jobs as possible. Examine the possibility of reducing tax rates to profit and income, suspend mandatory membership fees and fees to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Tourist Board. We've heard all of this, among other things, and from some of the other agents here. Cancel in 2020 payment of flat-rate income tax for renters and flat-rate residence tax. Consider the drastic reduction of VAT on accommodation, food and drink services not only for this year but also for the next reason why our tourism sector was less competitive for you before this epidemic compared to the countries in our environment. What do you think it's going to be like now that we see other countries invest that way, and we don't. With regard to financial obligations and citizens, it is mandatory to moratorium on loans. Each system is as strong as its weakest link. Try to hear what we're proposing, try to adopt is a greater chance that the consequences of this crisis will be less, there's a better chance that our economy will recover faster and we won't be so far behind, that we won't be so bad, that we won't be worse than 2008. We have a chance to do it while it's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188919	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188920	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, Minister of Staff and colleagues. I'll try to be as brief as possible because I don't think we have the time in general and every minute is precious as we try to invent hot water here, repeat some things that have already been said or in the end to deal with some policy that has the least to be space and time for right now. It's a good thing we're discussing this today, it's a good thing we recognize the crisis that's already here. Congratulations to all those who participate in the maintenance of the system, everyone, I have already said that in free speech, medical workers, merchants, carriers, cashiers, of course everyone from the Crisis Station, all those who are selflessly doing and bringing themselves into a kind of threat in order to make it all work and it should be repeated over and over again and that's where we profited where we both got as a nation. As far as these measures are concerned, a few directions, of course, I'm glad the minister said that this probably won't be the only time that we're here and we're talking about this, and this is a good thing to start with that we've started some things, that we're moving towards making as much liquidity as possible of our entrepreneurs. Of course, there should be prepared a kind of safety net for the unemployed who will show up because of the hospitality that is first on impact, we are already recording hundreds and hundreds of layoffs because de facto and by recommendation they will not even be able to work and are already recording huge losses. For some more serious hosts who have more restaurants at sea, on land, 60 employees the system is cold 500,000 kunas per month and they naturally draw the line because they can't earn it nearly when they have nothing to traffic at all. And through that network we need to see that these people are immediately going to use this time and compensation requalification to make even more possible what we were missing today, when it was yesterday, as it was all normal, working forces qualified where we must surely underline a clear distinction between this crisis and the past. This is not a crisis caused by financial markets and the economic crisis caused by the economic downturn, this is the consequence of the economic crisis, this is the consequence, not the cause of the security threat, which when it ceases to expect it to be much faster, much sooner everything in such a normal, of course it can't be overnight, although everything can always be a trap overnight, we are absolutely aware of it and therefore we need to use it somewhere. Of course, the more funds from the eu funds, the faster the procedures, all that used to take months now should take weeks. As for the loans I said in the replica, we have one of the measures that should absolutely be praised through HAMAG where moratorium is being introduced to all ESIF wars, micro and small loans and micro and small loans to rural development by 31 December, and prolongat payments and the term of use of credit for the guaranteed, and that is the right measure. Now delaying someone that doesn't have to pay credit means only when this is all over that it's going to wait for them, so they're going to have to refinance it, reprogramme it or something, but they're going to welcome it with a moratorian manual. So what's now at 120 months, three months doesn't pay, that means de facto at 123, or continues for 120 months when this comes back. And that state should take over the cost of potentially intercalary interest which then appears until the start of the payment which itself goes in such a way as to cut and say ok, until the credit is put into a new payment, we only have the inter-alert interest and thus maybe go with that measure. But here I see that everyone is trying as hard as possible to give, and that's not exactly the best solution. It's not a solution to split the money around, it needs help, it needs to be recognized, but it's not a solution for you to say we're giving 3,250 so they come here MPs shouldn't give 5,000 or we don't have enough to give not to postpone the moratorium on loans but not to have to pay the loans, like we're erasing them. That's not the answer. My proposal is to consider one of the intervening parts of its kind of blitzkrieg as regards a kind of mini-new deal in which the country would actually be the short-term largest employer to speed up all planned investment maintenance, investments, renewals, specifically to go into clearer operations on the market, to give the equipment of schools, new benches, new facilities, all public sector, construction, etc. That's exactly how we're gonna keep our jobs. In order for this to have effect we should clarify, amend or apply Article. The 131st Law is one of the best of Article 3 which allows the "negotiation procedure without prior publication or call for competition to be carried out precisely so, if, for some reason, the urgency caused by events which the contracting authority could not foresee" etc. We have this today, you know, if the roof accidentally collapses, there is no time to conduct some public procurement, but you can, by direct negotiation procedure, decide within three days that the performer will come and fix it. We're in this situation right now. As we have said in that Civil Protection Act "in the event of special circumstances that threaten property, economic activity or cause significant economic damage", we should do so and we should simply apply it to the Public Procurement Act, allow through different sectors the launch of a mini investment cycle, so that our woodworking finals who build furniture do furniture for schools that those who are locksmiths to do other things, saboteurs, therefore really construction sector, processing sector so that in that way we offer jobs for something that we should do in the next year, two or three, which is in our plan, now speed it up and thus ensure that people have jobs in this 3 next month. Is that what we're talking about? Some jobs that even on the current supply thresholds are quite acceptable. When we're talking about this school equipment I'm referring to as an example, it doesn't have to be, it could be... other things, to protect the construction sector, the processing sector in all these ways. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And already in the existing one if we're not going to change this law on public procurement that I think is mature in this situation, that already in the existing thresholds we just ensure the means to move on, that people, because I say this is not a crisis caused by the economic and financial market, but by the security aspects that when it passes there are all the preconditions that can be continued, of course not the day after tomorrow. So, maybe it's one of the ways that you could, you know, give those money away, let people keep working, so it pulls all the public notebooks, lawyers, all the ones that have to put together a contract, so on and so forth. So then this food and catering section to deliver food to people at the construction site, etc. So there's this generation, we generate liquidity. Also, we need to see about agricultural production, I am glad that the minister is here, we are now in some phase of the seed that there is more generation of its own vegetable production, above all vegetable production, that we have our own resources and that in this way we raise the very existence of agricultural products themselves, of course, and all that the cooperatives have to do with agricultural production. These are some two directions that malts should not actually perform interveningly. Of course, the same proposal from the Ministry of Culture to absolutely include itself in the story of virtual viewings, virtual museums, to enable now children who are at home and actually going to school to stay, to have additional facilities to visit one of the museums of the Republic of Croatia or virtually, to enter into that education system and thus also to educate and, in this way, provide facilities for people who are at home in isolation, which is done at the level of the world. So these are some concrete things to think about, anyway I can, I'm not going to repeat anything, I think this STEM style that's as measure indicated by... support measures, so it stops well, but it's still going to wait, the second step has to be solved, so maybe it's better, I repeat the moratorium issue while this is only going on when at one point you say the thing is over to continue as if nothing happened. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are liquidity measures. Of course, these inter-procession measures that will be good, which will certainly help for the first time, but let's try to give people a job, not give money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188921	Representative Batinić, come in. Continuing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188922	Thank you, Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, teaching on what counterpart Curaj was saying, the position of the HNS Club, we will support these proposals, these measures, of course because the emergency situation requires, requires simply extraordinary measures. Those measures are necessary. Are they sufficient to see this through time and, of course, I expect from the government, primarily as is announced by us, regardless of what the circumstances will be, the situation that we will certainly respond to and, in the interest of, primarily citizens, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia as a whole, to support future measures if it is necessary to reach them. An extraordinary situation, I say, is looking for extraordinary measures, but also, we at the HNS Club consider it, and the opportunity to start by now, tomorrow, with a new way of thinking, a paradigm of thinking, primarily about the economy, about the integration of the economy with state finances, more or less I think it's understandable to everyone, clearly what's being said here. The key is the one we have to take care of, which is sustainability. The sustainability of the economy, the sustainability of public finances, is primarily not working without each other. It could have been heard here, and I can agree with the finding that we finally got a little higher, em economic growth, em positive trends, a decline in unemployment, and now this crisis is caused by an unforeseeable one, I would say, by surprise and simply we see that although the measures taken so far are more than good, obviously and as a society we are not ready enough and we do not understand enough what our problem is. What I would also like to say when I mention the word "sustainability" is very difficult to pursue sustainability in terms of the market economy. But that's why there's a state that should, even though we're liberals against state interventionism, and this is already in some way state interventionism, in such circumstances and situations, we need to reach out to such measures. When we talk about sustainability and that part of it that the positive trends are economic, let us not forget the discussions we had both during this year and last year. We can't ignore the fact that it was here today and mentioning it, the health system. Thank you very much for your sacrifice, for what healthcare professionals and technical staff do, the whole sector. However, we also need to remember how much the state additionally separates beyond what is collected from the health fund. The peace, too, system is unsustainable. The state is also intervened, so it's not enough. So, although our trends are positive, we do not need to be ignored, and so I am speaking in the context of this situation that now is an opportunity, that the economy itself is more difficult in the market economy of the sustainability of its systems and that the state must also seek the sustainability of public finances. What is also necessary, the prime minister said today about health work, suppression, EU solidarity. What I certainly expect, and I know that the Government is also in this presidency right now, and we are also in the position of the Minister of Economy and Minister of Finance, the goal is to seek some level and European economic solidarity, and I think of our exporters as a priority. Our processing sector is over 80, 85% are exporters. So primarily on European markets and if there are no agreements, common positions at EU level, I fear that the damage to our exporters will be more and more than we may expect now. Of course, neither President Macron nor Chancellor Merkel has to be interested in the situation with the economy in the Republic of Croatia, but I believe that it is interested in the businessmen who are importers of our products produced by our economy. In that part of the minister, Deputy Prime Minister, also one appeal to be made, although I believe that at that level talks are held at the meetings of the European Council, but that the moment is particularly apostrophealed. The mention was local self-government, of course we are aware of what we can expect at the level of local self-government, what is waiting for us and with our budgets, these more practically, we will in some way lose our income so to say, other than those dedicated revenues, local self-government, contribution, some rent, I don't know, holiday tax, communal fees, etc., we have in one part and a bill proposal which we certainly support, but equally from discussions, from communication with colleagues to relax this situation at local level, we know that a large number of units of local self-government have one of these dedicated incomes that can be used for some intervening situations than just maintaining or self-intention for which it is used. So I believe and certainly will go by the HNS club to support this proposal, and we will also refer to the Ministry of Construction, the proposal has already been made by colleagues from the IDS, to go to that part of the local tax, to go into relaxation, or to not come to one gray zone, so as not to make some kind of review, let's say, infraction or God forbid, some other level of crime. This is just one example, why am I quoting him? I cite it for reasons because in communication in the Parliament, even though we were at a decent distance, we were able to exchange experiences, I think it's the interest of all of us, and it was hard for the government to see all aspects of all the laws at this point. Similarly, I cannot say what we are getting, primarily at local level, because we are in direct contact with both the economy and the agricultural producers as regards agricultural producers, spring crops, protective funds, etc., so that, if necessary, we are all ready to intervene through the time period of the session and when there is no session, when there is a break, we all have to come and vote on certain measures that will be in the function of primarily preserving health and the same economy. What I would also like to say, a large number of investments that are happening at national level, as well as at local level, need to be found a way to stop these investments for the sake of possible liquidity. It must not be stopped, so the state must primarily seek that those investments that are started, which are in the budget, which are in local budgets, and one part of these funds also withdraws European money because it generates jobs for us, it is a guarantee for us to keep jobs no matter where investments are, how much they may be in this situation primary, but every investment pulls out certain jobs and retaining jobs. There should not be, I say, too strict in that part, but certainly we should strive not to slow down investment, not to stop because it is one of the ways that we from the local level, along with this flexibility of dedicated, strictly dedicated incomes, we can contribute to the prevailing of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188923	The next club of representatives who signed up for participation, Club of Representatives Independent for, I apologize, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188924	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we have heard a few debates, we have heard one dying speech from our Prime Minister, whom fellows are constantly calling prime minister, so he is not prime minister but Prime Minister, the post of prime minister in Croatia does not exist, so he is the Prime Minister, he would like to call him prime minister, but he is not, he is the Prime Minister as he is behind me sitting vice president of the Parliament and not the chairman or I don't know what he is. So the situation is very serious, regardless of what we have heard calming speeches and speeches that have tried to calm the situation and tried to calm the Croatian people, the situation is extremely, extremely serious. Unfortunately, we have our hands held back, so the citizens of Croatia, Croats and Croats have nothing to do but wait for time to do its part and that this virus, that this virus disappears, or that the situation I will tell myself to fix because we are unfortunately still not in sight. And the problem I highlighted in the last debate is that Croatia is simply not relying on its own resources today, that Croatia is not enough for itself, but Croatia is based primarily on the EU and at the time when the EU, or when neighbouring countries tell us that some raw materials resources do not give to Croatia, we simply will not have them. And that's one big problem. It's a problem now that I'm constantly thinking, it's really hard to talk here I hear some conversations, I'm not at.../incomprehensible... if you can just one octave, octave quieter, and I'd be extremely grateful, thank you very much for understanding. A little bit on the scale of these laws, specifically the Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the General Tax Law, one of the most important laws we are passing today. We are passing a law that the article i.e. says. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So we don't actually bring anything, we're actually giving the Bianca Law to the Minister that he does whatever he wants, because this law is not prescribed anything. The specific circumstances include events or a certain situation which could not be predicted and which could not be affected, if the specific circumstances referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article affect the possibility of subsisting tax obligations, the tax obligations resulting from or which have been reached in accordance with specific regulations, may be postponed or may be granted by the Minister, and how this will go we do not have a concept that only the Minister will have to write. We're actually giving binco paper to the minister to write the law that he's going to implement. Are you colleagues and colleagues aware of this? That's one thing. The other thing is that the entrepreneurs, here are more entrepreneurs, contacted me on my cell phone and said the state here forgives nothing than delaying, exclusively delaying. What do we got? So, if the crisis ends in 2 months, 3 months, a year, all those entrepreneurs who haven't paid these payments then they'll have to pay all the backlogs, and then if the crisis hasn't destroyed them completely, then the state will destroy them because they'll have to pay the state until the end of June for everything. So this is simply not a measure that will contribute to the economy, which will contribute to entrepreneurs, is not a measure and we need to be aware of that. Third thing, people, let's not burn down a number of a few tens of thousands of newly unemployed the last few days. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic ignored it, he pretends not to hear that number. So it's going to be pretty soon, unfortunately, 100 thousand newly unemployed, people who don't have any income. Two years or a few months ago, when someone was out of a job, everyone would have advised him to go to Ireland, go to Germany, go to the boat, go to the navigation, go to work on a black thing. And what do you advise him today? There are no more Black Jobs, no more boarding ships, in Ireland and Germany the situation is the same as in Croatia. So, I don't want to be disastrous because the Croatian people are resistant and tough and I just said it, but here we need to know that we are facing a crisis that we've never had in history, we never had because this time we have nowhere to run. Someone was running when there was a war, so he ran off to Ancon, and now those who want to run, they're going nowhere. And who's going to help us now? No one. You know why? Because there's nothing to help you. And now it's actually that policy that's most important, and it's a sovereign policy that you see as a necessary policy. If we had thought through all our self-sufficient resources, if we had enough food, whatever products from Croatian fields, from Croatian pastures, then there would be no problem. However, we did not think that way, and today we suffer. I'm afraid not of myself personally, but of course, I'm terrified of everyone who's already lost their jobs, but they're out of a job. Here we had some measures, for example. in Slovenian if I do not cheat on Parliament and elsewhere that representatives have given up one salary, here I propose the same measure, even if we show that we representatives, that we care about our citizens, will not save ourselves, but let's at least do one measure and we as representatives give up one monthly income to show that in the same way as those who no longer work to feel a little bit of it today, a fraction of this crisis. So the situation is extremely bad, extremely difficult. Our Andrej Plenkovic here is trying now, in fact, regardless of some measures that are not bad at all, I'm going to say, at this once apparent calmness to get political points. Unfortunately, it will not succeed, and I will only tell you, regardless of which he is not particularly responsible for this crisis, it is responsible that for 4 years he has not created a self-sufficient Croatian economy, a self-sufficient Croatian state, a sovereign Croatian state that can deal with these crises, and that is why he is guilty. And if he thinks he's going to profit on this, I can only tell him that Winston Churchill won the war and lost the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188925	Representative Glasnović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188926	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we don't know what else is going to happen, this situation is uncertain. We know that we cannot separate the economy from the policy, we cannot also separate the economy, this situation economically from this pandemic. Like it or not, we're in a global village, accepting it or not accepting it. Whatever happens there in Thailand, Malaysia, China, America, has a domino effect on this situation in Europe. What's going to happen to inflation, GDP, unemployed, we don't know what's going to happen, but the key things need to be now is to contain the pandemic. All this economics talk, who gives a shit about GDP when it's in bed with 41 degrees of temperature? He doesn't care about that. Here, Americans have made, please little boys that Mr. Pernar and Mr. Zekanovic, you can after ironing here, Americans have made the worst scenario that this is. That it will infect 1.1, 1/5 of the population will get infected, which means that 0.5% of the population, 327 000 dead, is the worst scenarios in America. What's going to happen here? If we have a scenario like that, that's what I asked Field Marshal Maric, I don't know if he knows if they have that script on the table or not. That's the patient's second plan, the economy. They're interested in this, we should be interested in this, how many governments have separated the hospitals and should be commended, first people on the first line, these are medical personnel, people working in stores, they also have older people at home who can be infected, we have older people here who are in danger, we have, for example. Secretary, he's escaped now, he's gone, he's here today, he's also an elderly person, it's interested in people, Croats, whether there are enough beds in intensive departments. Is there enough equipment in medical, fan, oxygen? According to some estimates from China, if we can believe their data, we don't know what's going to be there, people are going to be reinfused again, there's going to be a second wave of that pandemic, in China 5% of the infected ended up in intensive care, we can expect that here, we already have a pattern there. Not only are older people in danger but they are, of course, already know or may not know, those with high pressure, there you could all be tested last week, there were medical staff, older people of course, pressure diabetes, etc. The medicine is gone, it should be repeated, until the vaccine arrives, the pandemic will end and there will be no vaccine, of course. You're testing drugs against this, for example. against Ebola, HIV, etc., it's far, far in the future and we can't expect anything here soon. Of course, we can only have lessons learned and collect data, information from other countries and analyze it. Last year, I mentioned Taiwan bordering China. The city is a million-and-a-half people in China, or live there, and there's what I know, the lowest rate of that spread of the virus because they already had a plan there, an action plan that they immediately launched, should be learned from such people. What about those who expand the discrepancy in media space? This is a national alert, this is a national state, a state of emergency, a national state, what about those who have spread the information? Who lied? What about those hackers who did how many attacks on the online system? What's going to happen to them? It takes one sharp answer, I'd have them, I'd have said it before, I'd have picked them up most of those hackers and these others, put them in federal prison, we'd have been going for two years, and there we'd have separated them into a department with paedophiles and snitches. It's for them. This is a threat to national security, this is a war, if you do it in war, you are a traitor and a traitor to me. He mentioned Mr. Zekanovic well, let's give up our salary. At least one. There's no pockets in the dead shirt if you go over the bar, at least you can get that money you stole, if you did, give 1/10 to the least charities. Caritas has now given up his equipment, everything is at his disposal, this is teamwork. In the end, I would just say that we shouldn't listen to conspiracy theorists and other salon strategists about how this started, it didn't escape from the lab, listen to the profession, these viruses are mutated, COVID-19 is just another version of SARS, the virus is called SARS, COVID-19 is this disease that SARS 2 is causing. That virus was identified in the '60s, it's called the crown for the crown, it doesn't look like a crown, it looks more like a floating mine, it's a submarine, and it's a very good description for that virus. As we sit here and talk, viruses in Africa and South Asia mutate. We remember the Ebola, and we need to be ready for the next pandemic. We remember AIDS, HIV that came naturally from Africa, spread to America through sodomy, where it was dying I would say, a large percentage of homosexuals in California, San Francisco, and there took time for people to find out what it was. Now we know about these viruses, and we all have to accept responsibility, individual responsibility. The foundation of every normal state and health is based on individual personal responsibility. We have to wash our hands, of course, in money you have everything there, when they test the money, you have everything, from feces to cocaine. Wash your hands, help the elders there,... If you know anyone in the apartment building, look at these people, wear the mask, and everything will be best if we stick together and respect these standard procedures set up by the Ministry of Health and other institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188927	The IDS-PGS-RI Club also reported on their behalf the representatives of Sponza and Demetlika. First in line is Representative Sponza, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Every crisis situation also offers its opportunities, it is up to us to recognize them, it is up to all of us that after numerous missed opportunities after the Homeland War, we show that we know how to manage the crisis or, I don't know, which times, the crisis will govern us. The strength of every community, including the state, is measured either by its weakest point or by its weakest member. If we want to change the climate in society, we need to help the weakest members, if we help them, then every community improves and the state becomes strong. To help, for example. Seasons, workers, pensioners, we need to help the economy with concrete measures and sustainable measures. And as the virus changes our rules every day and creates troubles, I also expect that after these measures have been adopted we will be both ready and fast if we need to change again in walking everything we see is needed to change towards both craftsmen and entrepreneurs. But I also expect the richer ones to look less at profit and the more at work, because all of us in our lives have shown that the more we give, the more we get. We also need to be aware that in doing so everyone will have to submit a sacrifice, from state to local level, from least to largest community. We in IDS both here and in the assembly and in Istria are as ready as ever to make our contribution. If the situation persists, and the overall effects will be negative, our task is to make sure that the overall negative effects are reduced to the least possible measure, and when the indicators are positive, our task is to do everything possible to ensure that growth is indicated to the greatest extent. And lastly, I would like to say that I would like to commend the headquarters of the work and communication so far, to commend the Prime Minister for calling on all representatives of the parliamentary parties in this crisis to act together and to hold that in the future if the Prime Minister continues to act and call on and include all other parliamentary parties not to make a mistake. And I'll repeat, the IDS in this crisis will behave responsibly and make a contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188929	Representative Demetlika is next in this same presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188930	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President HS, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. We are in a crisis situation that requires crisis measures. It is now up to us to find the best possible solutions in this parliamentary debate today. I therefore expect good will and mutual respect from all. The worst thing that can happen to us is a late reaction. It is therefore essential that we discuss today and tomorrow and declare whatever is necessary to adequately respond to the emerging situation. First, what is most important is the health of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and there we must have a system that will be quick and effective so that the profession, health workers, can react as soon as the need arises. We see that it's worked well so far, and it's necessary to continue in that direction. I therefore commend all the decisions of the headquarters so far, as well as the Government. As a policy, we absolutely have to listen to the profession and make the best possible legal solutions available to them so that they can continue to do their job successfully. Another important issue is how to help entrepreneurship, the economy, in all sectors, has given it traffic, tourism, agriculture, manufacturing and processing activities because it is already obvious that 80% of the real sector will have negative effects caused by the coronaryvirus. And that's where two key tasks are set. First, to keep existing jobs or to prevent the layoff of workers and others, to provide liquidity to entrepreneurs in order to be able to pay their salaries to workers. We can't get into a situation where there's a fire wave. And that state must jump as much as it needs to by measures to reduce tax duties and subsidies from the EU or other funds. Postponing or delaying payments and the possibility of a periodical payment is considered not enough. Help needs everyone, and special focus should be on protecting micro and small entrepreneurs, OPGs and craftsmen. We have to bear in mind that they have invested a lot in equipment and other resources, and they are in debt through credit, and it should be clear to everyone that they will simply not be able to repay those loans, and therefore we support the loan reprogramme measure. Today we have on the agenda and a united debate on these 18 laws and a series of acts that together have 63 measures, and it is impossible to discuss everything in such a short time. I will say immediately that we from the IDS Club will support the adoption of these laws and these measures. However, I must also say that we now see that these measures will not be sufficient and further measures are announced that arise from communication between social partners such as HGK, HUP, the Croatian Association of Tourism, Trade Unions, Clusters, Wood Industry, and we expect for the following measures a greater contribution primarily from competent ministries, I think of the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Labour, Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, because these measures that we have on the agenda today have come from most of the Minister of Finance. by the Ministry of Finance. And what I certainly have to say, and that comes out, what I'm saying, from all the contacts we've had, first of all, with the businessmen and entrepreneurs that right now our economy needs a reduction in the tax press, not just a delay. The state must take over a certain burden at this time. In recent days, Minister Maric has been constantly repeating, the budget is stable, the budget has a surplus, there is agreement and co-operation with the governor and the CNB, certain pension funds have been provided, which gives certain security to our pensioners, and the funds for the public sector are also provided. However, we now need to talk about paying salaries in the real sector. And these measures propose to secure the minimum wage for all those entrepreneurs who do not quit, and that amount is €3.200,00 and now questions are raised whether this is enough to secure liquidity for the economy through credit? Our proposal is that up to the amount of salary that is the average of the Republic of Croatia, this amount is released from all contributions and taxes, to be released, not to postpone payments through some kind of, some period because today we are asking ourselves how this entrepreneur will repay that loan after 3-4 or not knowing how many months, when he starts business activities. Therefore, we repeat, it is necessary to work to reduce tax duties because at this point it is extremely important to help entrepreneurship. And now I'm going to take the opportunity to repeat what my colleague Sponza said in his replica, and I'm going to look back at the Law on the Communist Economy. We, in the IDS, hold that it is necessary to enable more flexible use of dedicated resources that are incomes to local self-government units based on municipal contribution and municipal compensation, because in this time of crisis, these resources could be used for the other necessary needs of cities and municipalities, and we need to amend that law ourselves. That is why we ask that, for a certain period of time, these funds do not have to be strictly intended but to be distributed where necessary. And these are examples, he gave it to meet the needs of health care, welfare, entrepreneurship, fire department. And that's why we're going to submit that amendment. In the end, we generally support the proposed measures, but we must be aware that new measures will likely be taken eventually, or these will have to be adapted because the situation changes from day to day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188931	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Panenic will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188932	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, Your Honor, Ministers with Associates. Of course, in the context of this debate that we are talking about today, it is very difficult to assume that somehow everyone warns that this package of measures is acceptable, but it is also insufficient. And what was left in the very discussions given to us by the prime minister, which is dynamics. So if we agree here that a large majority of the votes will pass this package of laws and if it is not enough what is already indicated, what will be the speed of the government's reactions? Is the government really aware of the need to express a deficit this year if that's the situation, what does it want, intend? I think that's the key question, and here's Minister Maric, the Deputy Prime Minister, would ask if we're going and in this direction, certain countries have already announced that they will protect their economy as much as possible and that they are willing to enter budget deficits just to preserve the substance of the economy. And today, when we consider difficulties, we need and we need to appreciate the thoughts of our entrepreneurs who are already feeling the first pressures, who are already dealing with certain decisions that are never popular, especially those relating to the release of the workforce and their desire to survive. They want to survive because if there won't be a tourist season, they want to survive it to welcome the next one. So, it won't last forever, it'll get rid of itself within a certain period, but next year there's a tourist season coming, they want to be liquid, ready, able to hire, to keep their supply chains, their suppliers. Is if we look, so tourism is not just a catering facility on the coast or an apartment or a hotel or anywhere else on the continent, but also its suppliers. And those who need to distribute, I don't know, wine from the continent and expect and not only to expect but also such capacity that his tourist season is crucial, he has no alternative, he has no alternative, unless there is a clear view of the government and communicated to our trading houses primarily that the priority is to sell supplies that exist on the domestic market. There's no law for that, there's no law. In the end, I would say, perhaps in this situation, we should call on the Romanian model, they simply ignored the European Commission, passed a law establishing that there must be at least 50% of the goods originating in Romania in each of their trade chains. And of course the European Commission is pressing them and they are through implementation, here I'm not sure if they've changed it under pressure now, but they've secured a year, two or more time for their producers to enter the shelves, to strengthen their production, to strengthen their position on the market, and thus to catch up. Once you get in that position, it's more difficult for you to get away. And therefore, with these measures being proposed, the key assessment of both the Government and the experts is whether our measures are sufficient, are they strong enough to defend our processors, the goods producers, so that they do not find that, with the strong measures of other countries, especially EU member states, their products quickly enter our market in a more favourable manner, and thus in the context of this crisis, squeeze our producers? It's a key question that's being asked, not only what's going to happen in 3.4.5 months, but whether it's under measures here saying about Germany what Merkel announced, they're going with the strongest aid package since the end of World War II, so Germany has said the strongest package. And when it was an economic crisis, they didn't have that strength and they kept their auto-industry and their capacities. Therefore, we should consider that such countries with such statements support their entrepreneurs and they will fight if they cannot already make enough revenue, perhaps even in traditional markets to win new ones, to fight for a new market, to be there new players and to push out those who are weaker, smaller. And I'm afraid that our businessmen could be just the ones who will be pushed out, and that's where we need to look very specific how to help those who could be under this threat to the EU, as much as it is to the community, shows through these examples that there is a large competitive market in which tools are not chosen, and even at a time when we should call for solidarity. And today we had a prime minister calling for political solidarity, calling for economic, all forms. But on the other hand, it should be understood that those who may be around him today too and support that the second day will bring about measures that will endanger exactly the country in which he is prime minister. What I'd say is that we're talking about focus now, so we need to be very focused, we can't have, and I agree there are measures that help absolutely everyone than there are those who will be threatened in one short time and we need to create measures that are now ad hoc, which are related to one liquidity cash practically measures. And we see that we have countries that have provided their citizens, entrepreneurs with such allowance, quick money that can get over them. Great Britain has such a measure, I looked I don't know a Hong Kong gave its citizens $1200 equivalent, so it just means they have to boost spending. And that is exactly what needs to increase consumption capacity, demand on the market so that we can preserve the existing situation and perhaps compensate for losses. Political decisions, political measures are expected to help in this direction and, of course, the concern of entrepreneurs is when they are offered something that is delayed with what will happen after the end of the crisis. At some point, the epidemic will stop, it will settle down and then the government will say here at this cabinet session, the prime minister will probably have that attitude, I can announce that the epidemic is over with us, life goes on and after that all those who provided the delay come and say ok, now we come to collect. No one said that delay that happens is going to be distributed within what time? Is that short notice? Is he going straight to charge, in a year, two, three, after the crisis is over? I understand, the approach is, and I support actually the attitude, the measures will be considered through this time that is coming, so if there are needs and extend the execution of a certain one, but no one has said at the time when it ends what is the period of stabilisation in which all that remains as a commitment will in some way be broken. It's a good message when you tell someone maybe if it takes three months, you'll have a year, two years to pay for it, so it won't push you. That was missing today in this debate. What I would look at now other than what was a delay was for municipal donations, contributions, I would say, of course, that the local self-governments that are a little bit talked about here about local and regional self-government, have space on the one hand to fire something, on the other hand, to provide support that will be very specific is better known to their entrepreneurs in their area and can approach them and of course they will look for models to help them. There I would ask here we have, we have no Minister of Agriculture gone in the meantime, the support programmes in agriculture were well suspended for deminimism which was spent, we need to talk hasty to talk to the European Commission to free up that space that we have as a national limit, so that it can be helped through such small programmes to local entrepreneurs where there is a really small amount can mean survival or in some way delay what might happen within a short period of time due to this euphoria, panic or anything to stop production. So you should think about not only that delay but really ask for any form of liberation from something because it is now being talked about today and tourist membership and tourist tax. When we look at whose income is that? Income, tourist tax income is a tourist community, local self-government, I believe that those who are the leaders of local self-government to ask them themselves would have told you 3 months we will get over it, you can free to free up what we will also preserve the tourist community and help invest if necessary, so that would have been a much more serious message than just a delay which of course, everyone will welcome here something you have delayed but on the other hand means this I singled out as something I consider and personally that can happen. I was a note to the prime minister, so he said the minister would respond, but here's another point. In times of crisis, which took place particularly elementary disasters, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as regional local self-government for landowners, brought measures on partial or total release. And that's what happened. We had no idea in 2004 when it was drought, in 2012 it was an elemental disaster, in 2014 of that flood, we were bringing relief measures. Now we have a measure here that only puts off the charge for three months. With me in the municipality believe that most agricultural producers failed to pay in many years until June 30th, they were paid by September 30th, they were charged some interest, but in the meantime they had income. The harvest came to them, they made some income and they paid it and no one was making a problem, that 3 months that now brings the government actually on the ground there was in real life and no one was dramating about it, it just wasn't a problem. And now, if we look at it, I also mentioned to the prime minister the Agricultural Land Act for all new leases allows the lease to be paid by December 30th, December 31st of the current year. So here, on June 30th, there is a delay until September 30th, and on the other hand, the new law gives much more. So I'd say, let's do these available programs as soon as possible that people simply have deadlines until December 30th, and this measure then is much weaker. So we already have a conflict with the existing law and we should, we should make sure that sometimes we don't banalize, we go in the package, there's a lot of measures and everything, and then we have these examples of some measure which was a delay that was common, and often when the president of the Republic is called here and when he was like this, he's made.../incomprehensible/... now that they're all much clearer, smarter and better at the end of it now. What I must welcome is a measure of support for the preservation of jobs. Of course, there is still a question of how to choose and worry about it, and it really needs to be given a lot of effort, an effort to identify which entities are directly threatened, which may be indirect, may spread that base. I see that it goes with one quite broad approach but of course by voting here we need to give confirmation, I think that those are colleagues from the IDS, we need to give support that it is good, and we don't know the frameworks, there's a lot of things in sublegal acts and it depends on the minister's assessment and sometimes it might happen that you vote for the right title, and eventually when there are a million criteria that make it impossible and it wouldn't be the first time in Croatia. We always have nice laws, nice support options, and then when people need to collect their papers and come in, then they're asked for 100 and one document that's always one of those controversial ones that can't be solved, and eventually all of us who's expected to get to a limited group of those who can achieve certain support. Some suggestions, let's always be that, we have to finally come up with some proposals, at a meeting of clubs in the government, it was said that the government would meet and really consider any amendments that would give representatives clubs or opposition to improve those measures, but when we look at these proposals, you have virtually nothing to give the amendment to because we are limited to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament only to what the Government has touched on this could be an amendment. So our space is very small and now to write some amendment that amendment would be declared to be actually incorrect in the Rules of Procedure and dump it in the trash. So I believe that because of this, and you will have much stronger communication especially by opposition clubs that will communicate with the media that have better suggestions, that they have different suggestions because we cannot formally direct them here, which is a very limited space. What results especially from the situation of small entrepreneurs who are practically both owners and only employees, means that they have to pay themselves actual contributions and practically pay their wages, I think it's one of the measures that has been discussed, but here and the minister is very deep in it, so we think that it would now be free from such pay, and it wouldn't be one of the other Member States, but I've seen it, they've adopted such a measure with them that it might not be crazy now for a limited time word, okay here we are, because whoever is the entrepreneur, who is the one who runs, is carrying the whole risk, and eventually it turns out to be for cash that money that is insufficient to come into the problem of paying and everything else is being brought into problems that are unnecessary. We now have final accounts were, tax returns were made within a year which was solid. Based on this tax application, the Tax Administration will cut down tax advances for this year, but it is already evident that revenues will not be at 2019 level. Because of all this, there will be a certain decline and it would be reasonable to approach the fact that advances are significantly corrected to a lesser extent, so that in some way entrepreneurs are freed, or that, during a certain period of time, they are allowed not to pay advances but only to access them on an annual basis. A common measure if you look at other countries, here there was a prime minister said we are among other countries, this-this, we have very good, but let's take a look at it, here I will give all my fellow MPs and MPs a look at some of these measures that are other countries, so one of the measures was to allow lower costs of energy, electricity, gas and everything that in production can sometimes be significant, and in our case, by removing certain, temporary measures if you don't want them to be permanently, then by abolishing temporary certain fees, such as the gas security fee that is, and so, I would say from my position a little intriguing thing, and we might also find space in that, we also have in the supply of electricity, meaning especially in this transport system which is owned by the Republic of Croatia, there is a place to relax this situation. One of the initiatives that came, which is really thinking about us in some future to learn about mistakes now, to ask ourselves once again what the government's intention is with the Immunological Institute. When this has shaken us, and when these crises come to light, then something that may not have been a priority now suddenly becomes, it would have been a very good message for the government to take a positive stance on the Immunological Institute and say that we will still try to preserve as a state such a single entity that in future can help us in conditions, especially in these crises, that there is one security that citizens are looking for, because ever since this crisis has come, all the debates about vaccination have gone missing, not vaccination, it would be good to open up a topic now if we find a coronal vaccine would we be vaccinated? Yeah. Yeah, but here's the simplest thing to do, and so I think that immune can be in it, that we regret one of the links that will prevent what's happening like this. He would warn on another case in this short time that can happen, which means self-insulating in a agricultural economy where someone should now approach the processing of their agricultural areas, and he will use the tractor as a means, he should find a dose of flexibility, I can't now tell on this case that it was 100%, but I can say that someone in self-insulation needs to do agricultural work that should give him such an exception if he's going to sit in a tractor and not be in touch with anyone and do something to have space, it's such a purely pragmatic, pragmatic thinking. Twenty minutes can sometimes be very short, here are the ministers, the associates, what you do a lot and try even better measures to give. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188933	The HDZ advocates' club also reported for participation in the debate, MP Branko Bacic will speak on their behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188934	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We, our Club, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the amendment of the proposed laws in the emergency procedure. First of all, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, I would like to give full support to the work of the Government, but also to the Civil Protection Staff for the past activities in countering the spread of this pandemic, the coronary, the coronary virus. The result of this work so far is also evident in the fact that in comparison with the other comparable countries, we were able to stop the geometric progress in spreading the virus in the first phase, and what we are witnessing is happening in other countries. To compare how this process of spreading the coronary virus has its geometric progression, it tells us that it took 13 days for us, namely the first one, the appearance of the first diseased, suffering from the coronary virus in Croatia, took place on February 25th, and it took us 13 days to reach the 13th, and only yesterday in Croatia, for example, 13 of them. So this clearly tells us that with a new day the geometrical coverage of the infected coronary virus is expanding. This is why it is important to respect the decisions of the Civil Protection Staff, as Minister Beros said today at the third stage of defence against the spread of the Crown of the Virus which means full mobilization of the Health System, and in this sense it is very important to respect these decisions, primarily to reduce social social contacts between all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in the second part to respect all other decisions on self-insulation, on work, on movements and everything prescribed by the decisions themselves, on the decisions of the Staff. This is why these measures, which the Government has referred to, in my opinion, came at the right time and I believe that they are indeed a very comprehensive package of measures that goes towards reducing to the greatest extent possible the consequences of the coronary pandemic of the virus will certainly have on the economy of the Republic of Croatia, and we do not doubt that. But what I can say, and aware of the situation in which the Republic of Croatia was in the great economic crisis that hit the world, and then Croatia in 2008 and 2009, is still significantly more stable today, and thus can come up with such measures as the Minister said in the first wave will be around 30 billion kuna. So 63 measures announced by the legal decisions that we are now going to adopt, which, by means of a number of sublaws or regulations, or rules that arise under these laws, is necessary at the level of the Republic of Croatia through public finances, to provide 30 billion kuna. What's more important is to say that these 30 billion kunas we're about to single out now, we can factor out where and where simpler given the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Croatia, and that stability of the financial system has not come in itself. I have often spoken of this Parliament and this speaker as saying that the assumption of the economic stability of the Republic of Croatia that the presumption of the stability of the financial system was a stable political situation, and on several occasions I was talking about it so that we could implement the measures that we had implemented, which led to better economic situation in Croatia, which was seen through an increase in wages, whether minimal, whether median, through increase and pension, through an increase in the number of employees, through a reduction in the number of unemployed, through a reduction of the tax press, through the abolition of a number of administrative barriers that made it impossible or significant for Croatian entrepreneurs to work, which then clearly led to the fact that the budget of the Republic of Croatia was balanced or in surplus, which further led to the increase of credit rating to the level of investment rating, all of all of which allowed Croatia as a country as a country to deal with such a package of measures proposed by the Government of Croatia. When we talk about this political stability, at the very first moment I think of the decision, or the Law on Extraordinary Management, in the companies of sister importance for the Republic of Croatia, if it hadn't been for this political stability, we wouldn't have been able to implement the Emergency Administration Act. I don't know, and surely Agrokor couldn't get that roll-up loan then at a time of crisis, the political crisis in Croatia if we had gone into extraordinary elections, surely then that roll-up loan that allowed the recovery and handling of the extraordinary administration in the way that led to the subsequent settlement could not have been implemented. And what saving Agrokor in the context of this crisis means, I'll just give you some information. According to the accounts of the business of Konzum in the last ten days, I will only give information that Konzum has delivered 30%, 30 percent of all the goods that the Croatians have bought in the last ten days, that thanks to the fact that we have responded to this law, it is possible for Beje to produce 20 % of its pigmeat spent in Croatia or 50% of all domestic pigmeat production, that 12% of its milk in Croatia or 5% of our domestic demand is also allowed, that we have preserved 50% of our capacity to produce sugar, and in sugar we are self-sufficient, that 15% of the amount in the Agrokora system has been produced of wheat and corn production, that 15 % of the total hero in Croatia or youth produced in Croatia. If it were not for this not only to bring down numerous OPGs in Croatia, not only would a number of food industry manufacturers be in a very insecure situation, but the fact that employees would also report 30 thousand in the Agrokor system and many others who were business-related to Agrokor fall to the state budget. Would the state budget at that point be in this position? I don't think so. And in order to do all of this together, we would then result in the fact that we would not be in a situation where we could finance the measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this way. Well, in that sense, I wanted to stress the fact that political stability in the country was a prerequisite for successful numerous economic measures, so if you want tax reforms and all that followed, which allowed the increase in wages and everything else that is very important for the functioning of the state. When I mentioned the political system then I think that at this point we as a state and we as a society can look with confidence at the Croatian legal system. I think it is very important at this point that the trust that the Croats have in the health system is very important. We often attack our health system, talk about the problem of the health system in Croatia, talk about the problem of hospital functioning, debt, etc., etc., and now we are witnessing that many rich countries in Europe are much stronger and based on national GDP per capita have major problems with the functioning of their health system. For example, Italy, now Spain, which is stronger than Croatia, sees how difficult it is to deal with this system. I do not want to say that in some extremely difficult situations if there is an escalation of the epidemic or pandemic of the coronary virus in Croatia, that our system will have no problem, either, but we see that despite everything we do, it is a Croatian health system and I thank all doctors, sisters and all the participants of the Sanitary System in Croatia for everything they do so far. Therefore, it is very important to point out that although we are the biggest critics of our country, the critics of our system see that this system, and in these times of crisis, is working very, very, very well for now, and I hope that it will remain that way until the end. But as far as concrete measures are concerned, I think that these measures are primarily aimed at preserving jobs, which I believe is very important, and this is the most important emphasis for me, that in this crisis when a number of employers are really going to have problems, when there will be a major decline in business activities, when it will significantly reduce their financial revenues, when practically some activities are going to die, when simply with measures that civil protection headquarters will prescribe, the work of certain facilities, etc., etc., is important that the state intervenes then and that what happened to us in the 2009 crisis does not happen in all sectors, that there has been a huge fall of employees. I think that in this way with these first measures that talk about that for all those entrepreneurs whose employees do not have, they can't be employed, that in the event of keeping these employees, they will be paid a minimum wage, I think that this is the first measure that we can and should support, praise and, on the other hand, the clear possibility of delaying the payment of public fees, whether this delay will later mean write-off, whether or not this and how it will be done, I would rather, what the government has said, waited and saw that and how the situation around the crown of the virus in Croatia will be realized. The moratorium on credit payments is very important, which is what I think more than a welcome measure that must be consistent not only with HBOR, but also with all banks. What I would also like to point out is that although we are going through this crisis and we are thinking about preserving jobs, it does not mean that many employers in Croatia who have entered any of the systems of using European funds and have entered into the realisation of their investments, in order to enable them to pay off the advances that have been settled by the regulation, so far in a way that they pay 75% and that they have to have a bank guarantee for those 100% of the advances, that they are now immediately paid 100% so that they do not have to pay additionally to the banks to cover that part of the advance or advances and that they are fully immediately if they continue with investments, they can only get a bank guarantee for the part that represents their share in the realisation of certain investments. I already had a conversation with the Minister of Agriculture this morning, which is a number of investments led by the Ministry of Agriculture through rural development and through other measures that are at the state level, to enable all of them to be fully paid an advance in order to practically enable them and give them the air to not have to take bank guarantees to the full amount of advances. The other thing I also wanted to say, that is, I have already mentioned, the delay in paying tax obligations, as the minister said, according to his estimates, is the amount of somewhere between 9 and 12 billion, I think it is a very important measure, that when significant liquidity falls among certain entrepreneurs, it is possible for them to make clear that they do not pay to the state those obligations they have under the law. This is very important, thus safeguarding the liquidity of certain companies. Many of the measures defined by the Income Tax Act, with this Profit Tax Act, it seems also very important to me, the company that gets the incentive not to enter into its income tax base in such a way that it remains at the rate prescribed for natural persons who are taxpayers of profit tax. The law on the implementation of the state budget, defined the payment of the unscathed loan up to the level of income tax and the contribution which will at this time, given the reduced activities, further reduce their revenues. I think this unambiguous loan is very important that it can function normally further. What I also wanted to say, during the morning I even intended to replicate, is about the position of the seasons. The position of the permanent season. We have made this law possible if I am not mistaken, Mr. Minister, when all permanent seasons in Croatia, regardless of the place of residence, regardless of nationality in the event of a crisis, the next 3 months. They will receive financial support. I would like to say especially in the context that we have witnessed and heard what is happening to our many young citizens who have gone to Ireland, who have gone to Austria, who have gone to other European countries, that this social sensitivity when it comes to the payment and minimum wage in those countries that are certainly higher than in Croatia, with the fact that many are not even health insurance, that they are now forced when there is a crisis in those countries, simply getting fired, left without a job and returning to Croatia. We, as a state with such a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Act, show the sensitivity of the social system of the Republic of Croatia. So, acting this way towards all the regular seasons, regardless of where they are from, what they're doing, we're keeping people's jobs on the market, employees I'm not at least for so far, only that maybe something pleasant doesn't surprise me, I haven't seen other richer countries where many of our fellow citizens have gone over these past few years since the freedom of the labour market has been in the area since the EU allowed. He'd also agree, I think it's Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev said the part relating to the Law on Tourist Membership and Tourist Tax, that, the Law on Tourist Tax, that only allow the billing or subsequent payment, the postponement of payments, should be considered a clear and complete release from these obligations and payment of the tourist tax and of the tourist membership fee. So, with the many measures that we have, which are mentioned in these 19 laws, I believe that at this point the Government has reacted very well. Of course, over the next period, there will be a need to prescribe new measures, I am more than convinced, that there will be a dependence on behaviour, on the treatment of the coronary virus, that this will require a number of other measures that will go hand in hand to the citizens and how, which would go in favour and entrepreneurs. We have already heard several good proposals during the morning aimed at further facilitating the conduct and business of entrepreneurs, as well as the lives of our fellow citizens. I have seen and seen the amendment given by the IDS Club in a way that allows units of local self-government to be able to make the revenues from the municipal fee prescribed by law as intended and their income, and can only be spent on specific projects prescribed by law, so that during these special circumstances as we have called through this whole set of laws, the time of the virus corona or similar possible situations in the future that income to local self-government units comes from the basis of the collection of municipal compensation could be used unintendedly. I think it's a good amendment and I've also had a conversation with Vice-President Stromar, he said that this amendment at this point, given the lack of income of another type, and this is also income tax, etc., and that the more the Income Tax Act stipulates that local self-government units will, at 6 months, significantly feel the return of income tax that citizens have sought on the basis of their tax returns, there will be no income for local self-government units, and in this way, allow them to bridge the situation in a way that income from municipal compensation can be used as, or unintendedly, for the needs they have as units of local self-government and which are provided by law. Anyway, we're going to be at Club Representatives this proposal of 19 seems to me the law is fully supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188935	The next club of representatives who reported for participation in the debate is the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics, and will be the first to speak on their behalf by representative Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188936	The battle we're fighting right now is happening on three battlefields. She's the first one in health care. We fight to measure quarantine and social distance of the crop with fruit and that our ability to take care of the disease does not overload our health system. If we succeed in that battle, and right now it seems that's not the way we're going to look at scenes like those in Lombardia where the dead in the day count not in dozens but in hundreds. The second battle is economic and we are talking about it today. The measures proposed by the government focus on liquidity and job conservation. We can split the measures roughly into three categories. The first is the postponement of public duties and responsibilities, i.e. the collection of responsibilities. The second is the payment of minimum wage to employers who can then be paid to workers. And the third is, they're credit lines with interest or no interest. I believe this emphasis on short-term measures will, above all, lead at least partially to the goal, but I want to say that they are primarily focused on employers. Self-employed citizens especially artists and those in the creative industries have many issues and uncertainty, I want to call here for dialogue in the hope of finding solutions to the problems these people face. There are things that I would like to give to the Minister and my associates for consideration and that we will propose, among other things, as amendments that you will accept, or you will accept them in the original form, either in the amended form or you will reject them with some explanations if your explanations are satisfactory, we can therefore withdraw them. I'm just saying, if I'm calling on us to communicate these things so we can do a common good thing for the citizens. One of the things is that entrepreneurs whose traffic is below 7.5 million kuna per year do not have to wait until the end of the year to move on to pay VAT at the expense of the bill. So maybe if they were allowed to do that by now, maybe that would be one thing. Then, based on the communication of our club with the platform We can and the Association Right to the City, we have these measures that you have provided us with several, several thoughts and suggestions. Therefore, the measure to introduce a stand-style, i.e. this suspension of all measures of forced collection towards all debtors in natural or legal persons for up to 3 months, so we would suggest that this, that the moratorium also applies to the credit obligations of citizens in respect of housing loans at 3 + 3 months. We can also, we would suggest that subsidisation funds for the purchase of apartments are transferred to a fund to help citizens settle housing costs, so there are rents for those who are in private rent. Here I would open a small parentheses, too, we have a question from citizens who, say, have restaurants in places so they're in a private rental where they can't, their question is either how they're going to settle those costs, no. So someone who's in a rental space owned by a local self-government unit can get a postponement, but someone who's in private rent doesn't have that possibility, so here's the clean one, I hope we hear something about it. As regards measure number 15, therefore the unconditional extension of the project's term of completion in March, this is related to the Ministry of Regional Development and to the Funds, hence the unconditional extension of the project's duration with the deadline of completion in March, April and May 2020, as well as the obligation to repay funds with a maturity period in March, April and May for all projects co-financed by the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion which are implemented. So here's the thing, too. Measure 18, hence support for the preservation of jobs in sectors affected by coronary virus. Okay. So one of the questions that we got was about, for if someone gets a business suspended going to HZZ and there they're going to get, they're going to get that 70% salary in some period. So, and then I'm asked by employers isn't it to me, and to the worker and to me a better man to send to HZZ because he's going to get more than this minimumer which otherwise the state, which the state has announced no, then why not simply pay the employers 70 percent to get a bigger fee? That's, that's one thing, one thing to think about. It is clear to me that, perhaps, that there may not be enough resources because, as the prime minister said, we have had before in the debate, if this costs 5 billion kuna, this is a significantly larger amount, it is clear to us, it is clear that the possibilities are not unlimited, but here we are going to suggest it in some form as an amendment to you, you see what you can do about it. Finally, one important thing is the measure 24, so that we have an unconditional extension of the duration of the project of 3 months for all projects co-financed by the Operational Programme "Efficient human potentials" which are implemented and with the deadline of completion in the months of March, April and May 2020. Yes, and there is also a obligation to extend the obligation to repay funds with a maturity period of 90 days for all projects. So there it is, we also mentioned by activating a multi-force clause in these circumstances, so it simply has, in particular it affects NGOs, it would mean a lot if, if these things were taken care of at the time of these measures. So these are some things that we're going to suggest are not necessarily a final list, but here's just to let you know what's waiting for you. And finally, the third battlefield I was talking about is the one for the citizens' trust in our ability to deal with this crisis. It's a fight against panic, it's a struggle for solidarity among other things, and I just want to say that clear communication here is crucial. Citizens have a lot of questions, they have a lot of uncertainty, which is understandable, there's a lot of fear. I think we all have an obligation to communicate with the citizens and, and to do our best to do what we do here together, I think, first of all, you do, but we have a role in this, that, that we can bring it closer to them as closely as we can and in detail, so in that sense, here's the hope that, that communication will be clear and future and that these measures as well as all the future ones will, because we have repeatedly stressed that these measures are short-term. I hope that they will be equally well communicated, especially to the citizens and directly from you, but also to us so that we can indirectly communicate them to citizens who address us with confidence. Thank you very much. Now I'm going to let my colleague Alexic go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188937	Representative Aleksic will continue this exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188938	Thank you, Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, the state has missed a lot of things to do before what happened for citizens to be in a much better position, to have a much better standard than they have. Of course, it's impossible in one day to solve what hasn't been solved all these years. But the state really treats its citizens very machete as it treats the thieves very kindly. Thieves are banks, of course. The banks robbed Croatian citizens of more than 20 billion kuna using unfair contractual provisions, not only CHF, but also unfair interest rates. I've been trying to propose here a law which would return overpaid interest, because overpaid interest is a pure thing, there's no dilemma. There was no dilemma, it was legally solved. However, it was rejected, unfortunately by the government of the Republic of Croatia, so I will quote President of the Supreme Court, Djurus Sessu, with whom I had several times had the opportunity to perform in some public shows, so he said in a public show after I objected that one thing that people were judged was the right to have, to have the right to get their money back, but they didn't get it, he said that the court had no sword, no wallet. The court found that banks had been unfairly operating, but there is nothing more the court can do about it. In other words, it is then up to the government of the Republic of Croatia and HS to solve the problem, which the Republic of Croatia is entitled to. Why does the Republic of Croatia have a right to do that? That is why Directive 93/13 allows it to do so. I received an answer last year at the 9th month from the European Commission to which I forwarded both Ministers Maric and Prime Minister and Minister Bošnjakovic, in that answer the European Commission wrote to me on whether the state could pass a law that would deprive debtors on the basis of a final court ruling, the European Commission wrote, of course, that it should. Following me, a similar question was referred to the European Commission by a representative in the European Parliament, Ruza Tomasic, and she received the same answer. The European Commission has said that under Directive 93/13, every country has the right to damage citizens who are damaged by the unfair business of any trader. And we are talking about banks, and that is 8 of the largest banks in the Republic of Croatia in foreign ownership that have robbed Croatian citizens for 20 to 25 billion kuna. So far, only 0.1%, which 1 prominence of citizens has been given the rightful verdicts and only those who have received the judicial verdicts have received their money, during which time the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament on the side are watching and from a distance they care how it ends, let people suffer in courts, who cut them. We now have a new situation where one of the legal issues in the Supreme Court has not been resolved, and this is a question of the right to compensation of credit users who have converted CHF currency into EURo, where it has not been resolved after 4 years of conversion in the Supreme Court, whether these people have the right to compensation in Croatia. In the European Union, this is settled, the EU Court said, and that is binding on our courts, the EU Court of Justice said if legal intervention is carried out, every consumer who has had such legal intervention, who has converted his credit into another, new credit, has the right to determine in the national court whether or not that conversion has been compensated, and after 4 years of conversion we still do not have a legal question on it, although it has been resolved at European Union level. Let's get away from the converted loans, there are 70,000 people who haven't converted the loans, who have the power to rule in their favour, who have the right to receive and paid interest, and the subscription rate, and the corresponding tight interest, 70,000 people have the right to get it, no more dilemmas, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not interested in these people either. I understand that what is not legally settled that perhaps the Government of the Republic of Croatia should not still be interested until it is legally established at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, but these 70 thousand people who paid off loans before the conversion or perhaps still pay off CHF loans, have the right to receive their money, and can receive it either at the Court, or the Government could settle this by law to order banks to settle with consumers, to propose on the basis of a legal methodology how to repay money, and then, in accordance with the consumer's will, sign such a settlement and resolve their relationship, and a consumer who is not satisfied, who may want to do something else or more, will then establish his right at the Court. I believe that if one such law had already been passed, that a large number of people would agree to it, because people don't like to fight in courts with banks, they just don't like it. The evidence is that they don't like to fight banks in courts is the fact that out of the 150,000 people who have converted their loans so far have sued only 30,000 people, it's not a very small number, but it's still very small compared to the number of people who can sue. And even I suggested to the prime minister, although some don't like to say he's prime minister, but I will tell the prime minister because it's easier for me, I suggested that Prime Minister Plenkovic take me in and talk to me about this subject, he always told me in passing, but we never talked about it, because simply that hot potato doesn't want to be taken in hand, everyone's afraid of that hot potato, and even you sitting here who are in power, you in the Croatian Parliament, MPs who belong to the ruling coalition, some of you support me in the halls, but you don't have the courage to support and serve what I do. We don't have to go all the way, there doesn't even have to be a law on compensation, it could be a law that would facilitate access to courts, the Constitutional Court has already said long before it does, if someone has a material interest, can he access the Court and without paying the fees?, yes, the Constitutional Court may, however, be paid when the judicial dispute is over, and so the Government of the Republic of Croatia could propose a law that would allow people, without paying court fees, if they are covered by collective judgment, to sue, and then when they finds themselves legally guilty, who is not guilty, whoever loses the court dispute, will pay all the costs, including fees, but in any case the bank, I am talking again about what is clean and safe, and those who have converted the loans are safe. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not aware of at all, what the ministers are not aware of, nor are you representatives of many of you sitting here, if you have negotiated the euro loans before 2013, before 2013, in all consumer loans negotiated with a variable interest rate, whether kuna or euro loans, the banks have negotiated a unfair interest rate that is changed by the Bank's decision. The Croatian National Bank looked at it kindly, the government had no idea, the first to point out the activists were the Franak Association, and I among them, and we wouldn't have found it if it hadn't been for the Franak case, if the French course hadn't grown to the heavenly borders, no one would have asked the question of the unfair interest rate that the banks had agreed on in almost all the loans before 2013, and then they were getting away with how they did it because it wasn't prescribed what the interest had to look exactly. It is my dear colleagues and colleagues, one big, huge, bank lie supported by the Croatian National Bank, which kept that lie on its websites and claimed it was all okay, up to a final verdict in the Franak case. What's this about? The Mandatory Relations Act has always stated that the contractual provision must be specific, and only if the contract provides accurate information on the basis of which the contractual provision is amended, if amended, and that information must be market-verified, and must not depend on the will of any Contracting Party, and when the Bank contracts to amend something by its decision, then such a contractual provision depends on the will of a Contracting Party, and therefore such contractual provision shall be valid. So besides these 125,000 Swiss-hit families, at least 200,000 families were affected by unfair interest rates and a large number of them don't matter because when they see me again, this one about the franc, and I'm not just talking about the franc, I'm talking about interest, but the EUR-o and kuna debtors, and it doesn't matter. And if they were to listen a little more closely, they would know what their rights are and I must say that on 30 January this year, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia changed its legal understanding of the limitation of claims and established that the limitation period for claims was based on nothing, that such a limitation period would begin from the date of the establishment of nothingness. Pama, interest on EUR and kuna loans are not obsolete, everyone can sue, but why sue people if the Government of the Republic of Croatia could order banks to offer settlements to debtors. Here, such measures as I propose would bring to Croatian citizens, and for more than 300,000 families over 20 billion kuna, the state wouldn't cost anything, it would cost the thieves who robbed and robbed the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188939	The Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club also reported for participation in the debate. In their name will speak MP Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188940	... I first of all need to repeat what some colleagues have already done on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party Club and independent representatives, thank all employees in the service activities, in the shops of cashiers, medical staff, technicians, drivers, nurses, doctors, cops, epidemiologists, inspectors for all that they do in saving the health of the nation. [[Specially enabled.]] Of course, special thanks to both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and as the headquarters of civil protection, both in so far taken measures and in all these measures that we are having today's debate. I have no intention of repeating all that is, which, on behalf of the motionors, was presented in the opening statement by the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, or by colleagues and fellow MPs, but at the beginning, I must be determined by the time the bill was postponed. There's been a lot of talk here. On the Legislative Committee, I asked the Proposer directly what it meant to postpone, for example, the monumental rent. I got a single answer, no payment obligations, no payment obligations. I hope it's in other cases. As regards the amendments and additions to the laws that we are discussing, as I have said, I have no intention of repeating what we have already heard, but I would like to point out that these proposals preserve jobs through minimum wage insurance, to ensure measures for permanent seasons, assistance for disabled people, assistance in tourism through support for financing of crafts and improving liquidity, delaying the payment of concessions on tourist land, in camps to pay tourist fees or abolishing the obligation to pay the monumental rent. What's important to point out is given my profession, it's a delay in judicial cases that don't require urgency. This, of course, does not refer to judicial cases when it comes to alimony and execution of a prison sentence. It's also a special measure, and that's a postponement of the raid. Of course, these measures, which are also proposed by the laws that are before us, are contained in the existing situation with some projection that this situation with the coronary virus will take place. How long this war will last, which all battles will have to fight, we will see this, and I don't think that this, that these are the final solutions, are the solutions to this situation and the situation that can possibly be projected, and for these reasons, the Labour Party and Solidarity Club will, with due care, also consider the amendments that will be submitted, support the adoption of this law. What I particularly want to point out for the public for a million and so many thousands of pensioners, pensions are safe, they are not brought into question by these amendments and amendments to the law as well as maternity benefits. But I do need to make some suggestions, if you'll listen to me. In relation to the situation of self-sufficiency in certain products, and in particular food, and in terms of food, water, energy has no independence and independence of the state if it cannot achieve the highest percentage of self-determination in those segments. However, this is precisely why I suggest that, in the case of a possible rebalancing of the state budget or when adopting a state budget, you should take special care of the goods range in the state supply that is precisely in a crisis situation, which is their purpose, they intervene. I mean, in particular, the range of goods related to food, milk and eggs powder, meat, meat and wild cans, edible oil, the protection of means of protection for medical needs, but also the means of protection in the event of a nuclear incident. I didn't see in the balance sheet that we had it at all. So these are all possible situations where a strategic stocking programme should be reviewed because I personally think that the funds that are now there for, say, flood protection. That, it can have Croatian water. They'd be obliged to have it. It doesn't have to be in state stock. This is not an interventional means of life, this and people's health. And the second suggestion is the Immunological Institute. I'm already repeating it as a parrot. We have not since 2017, when the Strategic Partnership of the Government with the City of Zagreb was agreed, we have not moved away from the beginning. We had a meeting at 11 or 12 last year in the government. Until today, however, we have done nothing. I personally believe that in order to ensure the public health stability of the population of the Republic of Croatia strategically, this, the Immunological Institute has a strategic effect for the Republic of Croatia. Independence on imports is being realised, high technology is developing, experts and scientists in the country are being detained with a perspective of personal development. I'm not arguing with this that, if everything was okay, that the Immunological Institute was working to get us this coronary vaccine now. But the self-sufficiency of production from the human blood of our voluntary donors allows the safety of the treatment of persons in the Republic of Croatia and is important for the self-sufficiency of the product of the Immunological Institute not only for strategic reasons but also for economic reasons. For example, antitoxins of the production of the Immunological Institute are 8 to 10 times cheaper than import products that are now used. He also has another, one, one significant role. The employment of a new generation of young scientists, investing in their development and creating conditions for the return of those who have achieved significant scientific results in other countries, would therefore suggest that as vice-president of the government, you urinate on the competent ministry of the economy that these matters around the Immunological Institute are initiated from a dead end. And third, yesterday we got to the address of our club by the National Association of Hosts certain proposals for operational measures to help self-insulation and save jobs in catering and transport, so I'll be free to put it on your bench to consider it. I think the proposal is good, I think it's worth it, to consider it, and to take appropriate measures in the context of the National Civil Protection Centre. And finally, let me not be longer, colleagues and colleagues, MPs, say the following, although I suppose you know that. In the assembly, we were over 65 years old. There are 11 MPs and representatives, 11 letters and a number. The decision of headquarters to keep people over 65, some of us long gone, at home. I assure you, unless I'm a little cold, but it's taking a long time without consulting my colleagues and colleagues that we're going to be performing our parliamentary duties until the end, unless the circumstances change significantly, not only in relation to us personally but also in relation to the entire assembly, but it would be devastating to shut down the work of the assembly for the sake of the people and precisely because of what we're saying not to spread the panic, we would have just sent the opposite panic. As far as I'm concerned, if besides the cold, health serves me, you'll see me here every day at the assembly, and if I'm gone, then you need to know that I'm in self-insulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188941	The SDP club also reported for participation in the debate. On their behalf, the first representative of Bernardic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188942	Dear Vice President HS allow me to begin my debate with "Thank you". One warm, human, great thank you to all our services that work tirelessly to stop the spread of this epidemic that hit the Republic of Croatia, but also the whole world. Thank you to doctors, nurses, epidemiologists, thank all those who watch day and night and help our fellow citizens. Thank you to our communal services, police officers, and especially to valuable pharmacists and pharmacists, merchants and merchants who, in this difficult situation, make our lives easier. Thank you to all others who are actively involved in the fight against this pandemic and for their unselfish efforts to minimise the consequences of this situation. These people who in these most difficult times give the most, but the best of themselves are our true heroes. And when it was most difficult for our citizens, our country's people showed solidarity. This is what we need today, especially for our senior citizens who are the most vulnerable to this virus. Our common task is responsibility in these difficult times. The crises require us to be responsible, not to give up, to move on in our plans and to do our best, as our fellow citizens who are on the front line defend against this vicious epidemic each day. And so far, only a little more than a thousand tests have been carried out in Croatia, which is not nearly enough. And if we really want to prevent the spread of the infection, it would be necessary to make testing more accessible to citizens, but at as many locations as possible so that those who are not 100% sure can perform the tests and avoid fears and protect their families. That's necessary. Taking these samples should make people more available to test more people regardless of the price of tests because it is a better investment to invest in tests for as many people as possible and isolate the sick before infecting their loved ones. We called last week for more rigorous measures to stop the spread of the infection. Unfortunately, that went missing last week. But what we know is that experience and Italian cities, as well as European countries, teach us that every day delaying rigorous measures can be crucial to spreading the epidemic. So what happened today, and it could have been too late yesterday, like that. Done in Istria, I mean the closure of cafes, restaurants and shopping malls to prevent and prevent the spread of the infection because the virus unfortunately does not know the borders of the county. We in the SDP have been following the development of the situation for some time and together with our health and economic team and advice, and two weeks ago, we have warned of the consequences that the coronary virus can also cause for citizens and the economy. The threat of the economy is the second most important effect of this crisis. If such a trend continues, it will be a major blow to the state budget, the decline is expected in tourism, industry, trade, transport, we expect both the drop in exports and the decline in consumption. In this situation it is necessary to take adequate measures on the one hand for short-term job insurance and liquidity insurance for the economy, i.e. for entrepreneurs and on the other, to act preventively in the medium term in order to prevent the consequences of the deep recession that can affect us. We in the SDP did not want to contribute to the spread of panic, but as the situation grew worse and more serious every day, after the World Health Organization declared a pandemic, as confirmed by the Croatian Government's decisions in less than 12 hours, we came out with a set of more than 15 measures to mitigate the negative consequences that this pandemic will leave on citizens and the economy, which our advice and our experts have been working on. Given the proposals we are discussing today, many of these proposals remain current. What should be said at this point is that the situation is serious and public means should be managed in a rational and reasonable way. Public funds and spending of public funds, the priority of this spending must be the health of citizens and the health of the economy. Personal and party interests should be put aside, focus must be on preventing the spread of the disease and preventing the collapse of the economy. The SDP will continue to offer quality solutions, we will be constructive. We have already proposed a set of measures to continue to prevent recession or to minimise it and we will continue to work on it. What's here today on the agenda, it's a set of laws that are ahead of which is the time when sublegal acts and some decisions that have yet to live in practice, so from idea to realization is a long way, and time leaks, time just doesn't exist. Today, I am not going to talk about those proposals that we have proposed, which have been adopted, but I am just going to concentrate on solutions that need to be further installed in order for the negative consequences for citizens and the economy to be as little as possible. It is important today that the Croatian public, citizens, but also entrepreneurs know what the government's intentions are and what they can count on. It is a general impression that much remains in the discretion of individual ministers through regulations and other acts that should only be subsequently adopted. For the time being, neither the criteria to be managed by the State in implementing the announced measures are clear. The impression is also that many measures are going towards delays, prolongation in the application of official rules, deadlines, amounts, obligations, but the most important thing today is to avoid the fears of citizens, those who are thinking about keeping their jobs, whether they will be paid, whether the crisis will end by summer, whether they will be able to receive guests, restaurants, chains, apartments, whether entrepreneurs will be able to sell their goods, whether they will cover the costs, whether they will be able to pay taxes with delays or not, quite anyway. We believe that the measures taken today are to be much more concrete and that citizens and craftsmen must feel them. At this point we have a large number of people who have flooded the stock market, who have just started getting fired at this point. And our first interest is for workers to keep their jobs as much as possible and to receive salaries and therefore the state in these special circumstances has to help. We specifically suggested that the state participates in the salary for the next three months, up to 75% of the amount of net salary, and up to 5,000 kuna, that the difference be paid by the employer and made a commitment to preserve the job for at least another three months. Secondly, we have suggested that a more quality solution be made to the situation of workers who, due to this crisis, have either found themselves in isolation or quarantine. We think that the current fee of 2100 kuna for 14 days quarantine is too small a fee that does not ensure normal coverage of the costs of workers and his family. We believe that the basis for determining this fee should be at least the average salary in Croatia. Third, we have not seen anywhere that the problem of parents staying home with children has been solved, after the decision to close kindergartens and schools has been made. Especially if it is known today that even more rigorous measures make life more complicated, more complicated especially for parents and those who have older ones in their care are in effect. What we suggest again is that at least one parent be provided with paid leave so that he can spend time with his children who do not go to school. We also suggest, we appeal to teachers and teachers to continue working from home to avoid further exposure. It is unnecessary for them to come to school every day because they are so unnecessaryly at great risk. We can support all measures that go towards the moratorium to pay off loans and entrepreneurs and citizens, as well as those that will ensure easier access to capital for the insurance of liquid liquidity. Especially for paying salaries to workers and maintaining the business process. However, we believe that in certain segments measures must be a stronger contribution to the prevailing crisis. First, it is not enough to postpone or introduce a flat-rate payment of certain tax and non-taxable duties. It is necessary to directly support entrepreneurs and craftsmen in a way that reduces their tax liability, because if we already know about it, for example. tourists will certainly not come in the next 2 to 3 months it is irrevocably lost and time and money, and according to this, tax obligations cannot be the same as under normal circumstances. In this regard, we especially think of small tenants, co-prices, and all others for whom it is and how it is easy to estimate that this year will have irreparable damage due to the corona of the virus. Secondly, there is no indication that entrepreneurs would be free from paying a profit tax advance even though it is very uncertain whether and to what extent they will win at all this year. Moreover, these days there have been solutions for the flat-rate tax in which the obligation to pay the first war by 31.3. is what tortures people and hangs them like a sword over their heads. Such a move would significantly contribute to the liquidity of entrepreneurs in these difficult times. We are aware that the income from this tax is greater than 9 billion kuna and that in that case the budget would be seriously shaken. However, it should be borne in mind that retaining this model is a de facto credit to the state by entrepreneurs affected by this crisis. This results in the need for the government to deal seriously with budget accounts and to already counter the development of the situation in the coming months. All measures and actions should be divided first into those short-term ones that will help entrepreneurs and workers who are most exposed to the influence of the coronary virus. In this respect, clear criteria should be established because there is nothing and long-term anti-recession measures to help reduce economic activity as much as possible in the long term. Accordingly, we in the SDP have also proposed a whole series of long-term anti-recession measures such as planning and intensifying public investment, particularly from the European Funds. In this context, we need to launch planned projects that we are committed to. These are projects of care for older people and housing for rent. The strict expenditure side of the budget should be monitored due to the expected drop in budget revenues due to economic damage and slowdown in economic growth. It is also necessary to avoid an increase in the tax burden to cover potential gaps in the budget, and to focus control towards non-productive expenditures and reforms which have unfortunately not even been initiated so far, let alone been implemented. What we still insist on is reducing the VAT rate in tourism and catering from 13% to 10% to allow the tourism sector to recover more easily and faster than the consequences of the crisis in the medium term. It is also necessary to increase HABOR's credit activity, which is currently in double the size of its activities than in 2015. At EU level, we have a key task. This should be done in the direction of measures and incentives that should prevent global recession and recession at EU level by seeking greater solidarity for all in these conditions. The government in this sense must be much more proactive. Since Croatia currently holds the Presidency of the European Council, I expect the government to adequately valorise the impact of the specificity of the economic structure on the damage this coronary virus will cause. In this regard, we are particularly referring to the most affected tourism sector which, in the structure of the Croatian economy, is largely expected to receive adequate treatment when deciding on assistance and assistance from the EU. And here we have at our disposal the European Guarantee Fund of 25 billion and it is necessary to include potential funds from that fund in the proposed domestic measures. The other European Funds should also adapt the criteria for the use of funds to the emerging situation, in this process they should be much more flexible, i.e. to allow the possibility of redeploying funds to support the economy that has been seriously affected today. Because today is no longer difficult to assess in which segments will remain neutral, and on the other hand these funds should be re-used for the purpose of repairing damage from the coronary virus. What is still necessary, and what is necessary to run through the Croatian EU presidency, is the initiative to adapt the proposition of the use of the Solidarity Fund to the emerging situation and to enable the resolution of direct economic damage caused by the coronary virus. We have a strong instrument for overcoming the crisis, the Croatian EU presidency. This tool in our hands can ensure that our citizens go through this crisis more painlessly than we'll all feel. Let's take the chance we have, use the presidency to mitigate the negative effects on both the economy and the citizens. Good conduct in the crisis is characterized by discipline, effective implementation and retention of institutions within the framework of powers. In short, maintaining order within constitutional powers to keep citizens safe and confident in those who are obliged to help them and make life easier for them during difficult times. On this occasion, I call once again on all of our citizens to be as careful and responsible as they are so far, and to follow the instructions of the competent institutions. Let us be responsible for ourselves, but also for others. Let the hard situation get the best out of us. The best thing we can do for ourselves and others is be selfless, beware, not expose ourselves to the possibility of infection. Let us look around, come to the aid of the closest, friends, neighbors, and pay particular attention to the elderly or those with difficulties. Let's not let anyone feel forgotten. It's human lives, there's nothing more valuable than human lives. May wisdom, responsibility, and solidarity beautify us in this difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188943	Now will be continued by the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188944	Thank you very much. Just briefly related to the Prime Minister's presentation this morning, I think that two things are very important that he actually said, and the first one is that he has the means to finance the health system. So this is where we listed 30 billion kunas, they said there's 9 to 12 billion to postpone taxes, 5 billion to minimum wages, 17 to loans, etc., no one said how much it would cost and how much money it needed for health care. And this is a good thing that the Prime Minister said this morning that the health system will have as much money as it needs, and it's very important now to say that there would be no panic about some part of it. So through these amendments to the law is... to the implementation of the state budget, this is, in fact, ensured, and we would like to, through the amendment we will give the SDP Club that this particular consumption is at least reported to the Committee on Health and in fact to the Committee on Budgetary Finance. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, these measures, which will be taken by the minister here, will be taken by his rules, that perhaps through a two-week report, the Committee on Finance on what measures were actually taken. And another important thing, I think what the prime minister said this morning, and it's very important in these crisis situations that a smooth supply of goods is secured. It's the most important thing. So, in contact with Hungary, with BiH, with other countries, these are two basic priorities. So, the health system that has enough money to solve this crisis, so do we have people who are currently on the health system and another thing to ensure that the two biggest panics that are actually emerging right now are actually whether the health system is going to endure all of this and the other thing whether people are going to have enough, enough food. So these two measures are reassuring as far as it goes, and I think that, through this reporting that we're going to see, I hope that you will accept, every two weeks of reporting to the Committee on Budgets, all these measures that we're going to see are going to affect the economy, that, whether that money will come to the economy and we said that today there are about 32 billion kuna in the market, so that's an excess of liquidity. But the problem is whether you and how will that 32 billion kuna come to... that is, the entrepreneur. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they have a problem if they're going to give a moratorium they have to give extra funds as well. So they'll all generally say there's money on the financial system, 33 billion kuna. However, we will see in a month how many of those 33 billion kunas will come to a company. This means that if it did not come, if less than 5 or 10% came, we need to change these measures and that is, the CNB has to change the measures to get that money to the final entrepreneurs. And that is why it is important for this reporting to be according to the Committee on Finance and Budget, the Committee on Health so that we can continue this report and propose new measures and have a more quality discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188945	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which it will speak and the time will be shared by the respected MPs Lovrinović first and then by the respected representative Vucelic. First of all, the respected representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188946	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens who follow us, are deeply concerned by all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They write to me citizens, especially entrepreneurs, asking how this situation will be overcome, how it will be resolved, asking me to propose certain solutions, and some of them I have really written here. In recent days, economic experts from the party Change Croatia have considered possible solutions to this situation. So we have one situation that is truly unique. But she's extraordinary. How long will it take, a month, two, three, six, nobody knows, depends on the virus, right? On the other hand, today after the Prime Minister's presentation, I actually realized, first I was impressed by the number that we have over 60 concrete measures, I mean, here's what's really going to be a capillary act if they're hiding all the channels. However, they say this package weighs some 35 billion kuna. However, when I heard all of this, this is really about entrepreneurs, workers, citizens only wanting help in a way that extends their obligations to them and nothing else. So the government here would play one role as a mediator to make life easier. I'd say it a little bit like this, I don't want to heat up any pessimism, but on the contrary, optimism about the message for many goes, you won't die tomorrow, but you'll be about three months from now. Now, the party Change Croatia we do not use mantras, unfortunately here today I have heard a lot even from parts of the opposition. What are the mantras? We need to do everything we can to keep jobs. We need to do everything we can to help our entrepreneurs. But how are my people? How? Have you wondered how the government will help these 35 billion, do you have any idea how it will be financed? I'm afraid you've convinced me that you don't understand. But look, the state has nothing in the state budget to help. I repeat, my fellow citizens, the state has nothing. Did you see how we argued here at the end of the year and that all those houses were barely closed, and now they're talking about the help of about 35 billion kuna? There's no Kuna. So how's the state gonna help? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Who can help? Only the central bank, but you can see it has not been spoken of in Croatia for 30 years. I see and here some people look at me palely when I speak when I say central bank, say what this one says. You know why the central bank? All other banks have to collect deposits first to help, taxes to help, but the central bank doesn't need to collect anything it generates money itself, it can't end much of it. Now, somebody's gonna tell Lovrinovic, and you're gonna put it up to it, there's gonna be inflation. Oh, come on, please. Well, the cash mass has been doubled over the past three years, and we have a problem not falling into deflation. So little Ivica imagines how the central bank works and monetary policy. But let's be specific, so remember, the state has no money, the budget has no money. But yesterday the minister, I'm sorry that he just came out exactly when I was coming here because here when the experts come, then there's no pulling you out for a pay phone, he was saying yesterday he'd be in charge abroad. There is no need for us to be in debt, this country is convulsing in debt especially to the abroad, this government has increased external debt by 3 billion euros. We have enough kuna funds from the CNB, which unfortunately never took part in the rescue of businesses, but now is an opportunity in the real sector. On the other hand, we have 19 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves that we finance other countries, that's where it stands. Therefore, we have an abnormal situation for a small country with a small economy in the net amount to finance abroad. Now it's time for your battery, your foreign reserve and your central bank, but it has to change the philosophy of business. You know why? She's showing strange formulas now, models, she helped with 13 billion a week ago, you know, financial institutions that aren't in any kind of crisis. First, the banks bought a billion euros, beware, from the state reserves, it remained undetected that they were paying their profits for last year's Telekom and the banks, etc., etc. suggests a restrictive measure to buy foreign reserves, therefore, it is a strategic matter of national interest. On the other hand, they've granted 4 billion kuna loans to banks at 0.25%, be careful that's common, and that's the first time she's done HNB. But what is she supposed to do now? It should continue to be approved by banks, so the banks got 0.25%, but the entrepreneur can't get a loan more expensive than 0.4% that's important, that's that transmission mechanism where the central bank can only help. The government, however they can't do anything, they can only pray, talk, crisis headquarters is the main thing besides what the Epidemiological Crisis Command says the next headquarters is the CNB. What can she do? Therefore, let the government stop the purchase of expensive cars around 235 cars that are going to buy these days, not to over-indebted because public debt is going to rise anyway. So the state needs to help the local community, entrepreneurs, workers. How will it help if there are no funds in the state budget? Well, I said only on the basis of a loan from the central bank. It doesn't have to go directly because the current law makes it impossible, but it can go through the HBB and through HBOR it's billions. Therefore, she can play her key role here. And just to say one more thing, since the public debt of the gentlemen is going to increase tirelessly, the public debt will increase, I propose to the prime minister, I am sorry that he is not here, right now or tomorrow to write a letter to the European Commission to suspend all actions related to the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia, because it will destabilize less or more, the public debt will increase, we will have major problems. You see, he didn't say one word to stop the euro-introduction actions, so it's amazing, you can't work on two developments because one doesn't go with the other. On the other hand, don't rely too much on eu solidarity, we saw in 2008 everyone saves themselves, therefore, if we get something from the eu funds bravo, well done. But I said we have our own accumulation of the 20 billion euro equivalent of the savings, we have the central bank, we have 19 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, that's the money of the Republic of Croatia. So we are crucial to our resources to solve these key problems. That's why I call on the finance minister to give up any foreign debt, if he does so at any time, the government will have to account for why she did it to owe the country, and we have our resources. Let's not lend to others, but let's take it from each other. Now let's get out of the position of the entrepreneurs that we measure, this one we propose? We welcome of course in this package of measures, there are positive things, and it is quite clear, we want to, Party Change Croatia with our experts, make ourselves available, so this is an extraordinary situation, we are not allowed about it, and we are not going to participate in ideological political bickering, but what we can help is, therefore, I quote concrete proposals, would be happy if at least one of those who have, who... adopt tomorrow, and I'll be unhappy if you refuse to resist all suggestions because then it really says it's a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm also concerned about a little bit of these government demands to take over the Parliament's powers, you know, then simply, we have a problem with the virus, we have a problem with the economy, it just smells like one totalitarianism, and it's not necessary, it can't be allowed for the Parliament to work, and there's no authority to give to the government, but between us, let's be honest, so the government has long taken over Parliament's powers, there's just a voting machine here that confirms it on Fridays, and the only thing that exists is a small number of us from that real opposition that we're taking care of the people. What do we suggest about entrepreneurs? Just to pay VAT, no contributions and no other taxes. When? By the time the crisis lasts, three or six months, remember there's no payment, so not to delay them so they'll pay, no payments. Why? Because entrepreneurs, workers, pensioners paid for not one billion dollars, tens of billions to save banks, agriculture, shipyards, failures to privatize them, now that the state has to pay back their own, let's say, credit or what they gave it. Furthermore, entrepreneurs must have fast access to cheap loans, I said up to 0.4%, that's what entrepreneurs need. What else do I have to do for entrepreneurs, and by the way, I'm talking about workers? They'll run out of workers, yesterday I was in a restaurant where only a friend and I were the only guests, and the owner says listen if it takes this long, and especially if I'm banned from work, but from tomorrow, I can't survive, so he can't pay that worker he fired. The proposal of the Party We change Croatia, until the duration of the crisis everyone who gets fired pays them minimum wage, they come to the stock market, but one good part of them will be affected by the work obligation in food production, pharmaceutical products, supply and so on, and so on. So very one exceeded, exceeded the proposal. Furthermore, what else do we propose for workers? During the crisis moratorium on all blockades, executions and dissections. This is an opportunity, Croatia, as shown in the war and now, the best functioning in times of crisis and in an emergency, of course, we will now see how the Government will act, if it does not adopt some of the key good suggestions, then there is another plan, and I would not want to believe it, dear citizens. So that's what workers do, they have to be protected who lose their jobs, they can't come home without getting anything else. In this context, what else do we propose? Here is the time for emergency interventions, here counts in hours, in days, we have a good part of companies that have already reduced traffic 50% and more,... If you don't do what you have to do in the next few days, then the thing will collapse like a domino effect, so you can't do it when you're... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That means it's important to act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What do we suggest next? So borrowing on the domestic market through, with the help of the Croatian National Bank, it has to change its philosophy these days, meaning not only to help banks, financial institutions and others, but the real sector, to save production, to invest as much money as it needs these days American... The central bank plans to put in 1,000 billion dollars, German about 500 billion dollars, their central banks I repeat to you, their central banks because both their states and budgets have no money, so the budgets are more or less empty everywhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What else is there to do? Entrepreneurs will be faced with a fall in income, when the decline in income they can hardly function, now is the time, there would have agreed just before one speaker said for the launch of large investment, larger investment projects by the state, now it is time to buy all the supplies of agricultural products from the CAP, small, medium-sized enterprises from the food industry and to guarantee and already contracts means for the whole next, for this year at a pre-known price. Redemption why? Because only if you guarantee the ransom price to the peasants, they will now grow 10 or 100 pigs, or they will engage in the production of milk, that is, this is an opportunity to raise domestic, domestic agricultural production to a higher level. So this is an opportunity to solve the problem of the blocked that there are about 240 thousand, we have a famous model, in that sense we join in means supporting all those who care about our health, all scientific workers, civil protection, everyone, this is an extraordinary situation. We want to change Croatia from the Party to help, so what we can do, that's good suggestions, we'll be solid, we won't engage in any other debate, but we'll discuss the quality of the measures, we'll offer good or better measures, and we won't let this situation that we'll see where it came from at all, you know, and what's behind it, what's behind it, and we'll look at it, but we won't let this someone abuse in terms of strengthening... Let's put it this way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188947	The respected representative Vucelic will now continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188948	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. The Living Wall measures are a momentary moratorium to carry out operations, execution and blocking of accounts, use of foreign reserves and primary money emissions to help workers and entrepreneurs. Buying food from domestic producers for commodity reserves, buying food from domestic manufacturers for trade chains, stopping all euro introduction processes, tax write-offs, cutting and salary contributions during the course of the epidemic, starting from 1.3., moratorium on all loans including interest, 0% tightening interest on all unpaid liabilities incurred during the pandemic period, start production at the Immunological Institute primarily production of natural interferons, ban on water, electricity and gas and until further notice, and as soon as possible during the pandemic and three months after the pandemic. This measure concerns the citizens of those citizens who lost their income due to the epidemic. Cancellation of payment of HRT subscription during the duration of the pandemic, suspension of payment of supplementary insurance during the duration of the pandemic, launch the campaign "Let's buy Croatian, keep our homework". The government's economic measures are insufficient, they cannot help stability for the next few months. And who will bear the burden of this crisis? In the Living Wall, we believe that the burden of the crisis should be borne by the financial sector, the CNB and the state budget, not by entrepreneurs, workers and citizens. This crisis will show how monetaryally sovereign Croatia is, it will show where we are weak. This is a system problem and only system tools can be solved. One of the tools is just the CNB. The CNB currently has about 19 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, which is huge money and will have to be used to overcome this crisis. We are in favour of a strong increase in agricultural production. It's still a calendar winter, and now all agricultural resources, all agricultural areas, capacities, workers need to be exploited, in order to greatly increase agricultural production because we don't know what's waiting for us in the fall. There may be a complete closing of borders. I'm glad that with measures similar to ours came out and the Agricultural Chamber, so we have to gather all agricultural producers, we have to think carefully about what and where we import from. Rescheduling the rent and other fees can help, but they are not a systemic solution to this problem. The Immunological Institute can be put into operation within a few months, its importance is strategic and we must strive to restore it. It has also been shown in this crisis that solidarity in the EU as well as in any other crisis does not exist, and it is at very low levels. Italy is not helping Germany or the Czech Republic or Malta, but helping China with masks and respirators. This sends us a strong message that we must turn to ourselves, self-sufficiency, monetary sovereignty and food sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188949	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When everything is summed up and the entire mandate of this government is summed up, then we can conclude that it is constantly forced to address the crisis from that part of the economic crisis with Agrokora and with the shipyards, and with many more problems, but we have to conclude that there has been a financial consolidation of the budget, financial stability, that there has been a significant redundancy of the economy and of the citizens in tax burdens, that there has been a fiscal decentralisation towards local self-government and that today the prime minister can say that some time ago it would be much more difficult for us to address these problems that we have now encountered in the biggest crisis than it was a while ago. It could be concluded that the government reacted in due time in all the processes that were happening, just as it is evident that it was responding in time and now. And it's really unquestionable today that people who are at the top of the country with the global problem of the corona virus have done a job in advance, that in time followed, that it was well organized and that this battle with the coronary virus is difficult, but that it's still somehow under control and we can only do as everyone here has said today, so I will also say on behalf of our club, to be grateful to all those who manage this system, but also to all those who participate in this system and who are daily exposed and who will be even more exposed and under even more pressure and stress to protect the nation. This is a quick package of measures, so they've been done in a few days and it's not safe to expect that in those few days with the inability to even assess everything that's going to happen because no one's ever been able to assess it in the world, some kind of 100% measure that's going to solve everything now. It will not be safe, as is certain that the crisis will go on, as is certain to be a more difficult situation in the country as it is in all other countries that are affected and as it is certain that the Government and resolutions in the government will follow all this together and in line with the situation that is likely to propose some new additional measures in line with what is the main thought, the main idea that in the first place is human health and jobs, the preservation of jobs. So these are the two things that are highlighted as most important and that are actually at that epicenter to say so to the people who are at the head of this country who run it and who are in this way the most responsible people. Our greatest help will be to trust them, because if we spread our trust, if we don't believe what we're being told and what is being reported daily and what is being proposed and offered, then the citizens will find it even harder to believe and we will fall into an even stronger, deeper crisis ultimately with the possibility of saying so by causing panic. We certainly must not work to create such an atmosphere at any time. Since day one, the government has reacted in a timely, stable, open, and peaceful manner. And these are sort of things that need to be preserved in every way possible. And we as citizens, of course, listen to what professional people tell us, listen to the profession, trust that profession, and act in harmony with what they tell us. In this way, the most we can do is help ourselves, of course, to others and the whole system. We, as a club of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, will, of course, support this package of measures and I repeat our congratulations and thank those most responsible, who work most, who lead this whole process. However, I would also like to highlight and mention only a few problems, or raise a few questions that come to me today during this debate and in the previous days since this session with this package of measures has been announced. So, there will be a problem in the catering primarily with those small hosts, I'm here to talk mostly about those caterers who are in the continental, rural part of Croatia who do not have financial supplies that live from month to month and cannot settle costs if their traffic falls rapidly. They are now experiencing a problem when VAT collection comes by the end of the month for the second month they will generally not be able to pay for it. I know that this package of laws wasn't meant to be, but it would be good for tax administrations who are counting and who have contacts with these entrepreneurs to take care of it and see their incomes, see their costs, not exactly to be completed at the same time, that maybe the 15 days might be about 30 days until people come to their senses. I'm asked by people from private health care, meaning physical therapy, him in the house, they're around 110 business entities in Croatia, about 1,200 nurses, yes, they're telling me that so far they're not involved in this overall system and they're asking what's wrong with them. If they still have to go to work, they don't have to go to work, so they're going to have to be given the same instructions, I believe our headquarters is working on it, and they're going to get instructions very soon and soon. There's been a lot of talk here about food, of course, that in crisis situations people go into fear at the grocery store that they primarily put into wheelchairs and baskets of food that's perfectly normal. I have personally talked in this assembly and in public performances about this problem that many colleagues and colleagues here have spoken about today, and this is domestic food production, but I will not repeat it now, I will just remind myself that on a few occasions on behalf of our club, I have talked about the needs of the establishment of agrocenters in Croatia to organise small economies production, in order to resolve the ransom. We could use that system in situations like this because we'd have someone who could organize it and place it all. This is certain that we will not succeed overnight, as some here have said, starting agricultural production, it does not go so quickly, but let it be a reminder to us, let it be a lesson for us to think about in the future how we can be better organized and how we can build a system that can answer both such problems and these questions. I didn't get it right, so in some way and I want to point out, I know it's already been talked about, but maybe I missed the answer, those people who were sent out of work to self-insulation, and I can't do the job from home, I didn't realize if they would be recognised as sick? So, I'm talking about people who were sent to their homes in self-insulation and I can't do my job from home. Many people can from home, thank God, from home, do chores and work at home. But there are many of them, of course, and there will be more and more that will be forced to be self-insulated, so they are in some way whatever way we want to admit it or not to be sick, and I think that this problem has to be seriously considered and that it has to be solved as a problem in a way that they recognize it as a disease to solve that too. This exemption measure for entrepreneurs, economic operators, craftsmen for the protection of jobs is in any case a good measure. She'll certainly help. A friend of mine told me yesterday who's the caterer that if such a measure would be that he would certainly not fire any of his men, but would try to keep them maximum. And there is another question asked by these young entrepreneurs, or entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who set out in self-employment programs have that 4400 kuna minimum salary obligation for the director they have no accumulation. There's a lot of young people like that. They don't have anywhere to pay for it because they're self-employed. Is this going to be settled on the point that there are no violations in the law if they are unable to pay that salary of 4,400 since it is a service activity where they will not have any income in the coming time, especially if they are engaged in certain activities related to people, with children similar to those in schools where they will not be able to earn anything? Will they be able to use those regulations, rules by the minister, so that they can pay that small salary, or the one of the 3,250 kuna, if they come into such a situation? Here are these few notes of thanks to those who lead all of this with a desire to endure for all of us, for the entire Croatian people. Let this be a good lesson for us after all. In a way, you're a little man and he's thinking with himself. Looks like we've come for the right use. People say everything happens for a reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188951	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that Voice in the name of which Anka's respected representative, Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188952	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am the 12th club, or representative of the 12th club, who will talk about this system of measures. And in the first place just so I wouldn't accidentally forget, I want a really deep affection and a deep thank you to all those who are dedicated to doing their job. First, they are colleagues and colleagues, or healthcare professionals. Then there are all the merchants who are the most vulnerable at this time, because those who deal with food products, so those who work in bakeries, who do work with us all daily. It's all those who work in pharmacies, in the pharmaceutical industry. It is all those who, no matter what, will collect bags or trash cans in the City of Zagreb, who will move the streets that are still doing their job. And it takes deep affection and deep gratitude to everyone. When something like this happens, it's primarily human and human life, and then behind it and a series of other things. That one at the beginning of the crown was kind of far away from us, and we thought it was some devil who was out there in China, and he'd stay there. But that devil turned into a devil who came and traveled all the countries of the world. And if it's a real nemesis, nobody knows at this hour. At this point, the only person who would have a glass ball could look at that glass ball and tell us what it is and what the consequences will be. The government came before us with 63 measures that were defined through 19 laws and will be followed by sublegal acts. When we discussed there last Friday, so not so long ago then we from Glass were immediately the position that Parliament should continue its work, that we should work responsibly, knowingly, that we should create conditions and then we said, and you know, here's the afternoon is look how many of us there are, how long the day will be even less. Only those who will have individual discussions will come. At this time, we in the Parliament really need to use some clear messages. One of the clear messages is that institutions must do their job not in those messages how some who have problems with these institutions, but really that everyone should be responsible and conscientiously doing their job, so we too must do so in the Assembly. The message is that things have to happen and move on in their own order, not create a panic that has already been created. So panic's already out there. The greatest danger to you is the great fear and panic. It arises from ignorance because at this point that the coronaryvirus actually has a little bit, we know what it is but how to fight it there's no way and it's that one out of ignorance is creating panic. Of course, we're all on our smartphones or watching everything in the world, how many in other countries there are, how other countries fight, what they do. In doing so, I must say that those who go out to us twice a day twice a day and say what happens to say it calmly, say it for sure and do everything and do not hide the information no matter what it says – and no, you do not have the right information – do not hide the information, but really we get the information, we get regular information. But what are the scales let's be honest and say that we don't know when, so not long ago, March 11th, today was March 18th was the decision of the Minister of Health where COVID-19 was declared an epidemic, so that was 11.3. Imagine how much happened to us in our lives from 11 to 18.3. All of us in these places have some traditions. I know that a little girl was driving me crazy because my mom always had a bag of sugar and a bag of salt that didn't need it, so then my job was to go with that metal cup because it's already gone and it's all because it's left over from that war. We've been through experiences not so long ago of war where, where the most important thing at home is that you have, except, so live head on your shoulders and you know where you have who, that you have home to eat. I feel like it's happening now. Let's hear it, they say it's no problem and we have to believe it's not a problem, we have a transport that's being taken care of, of all the major manufacturers say we've been preparing for the tourist season, so we've got supplies, but regardless, my husband has, on Tuesday, come down for bread that wasn't anymore. He left and said at the bakery at 5 and 15, half-six, no bread, all the bread was sold out. So, this morning before I went, that's where I met my neighbor who's wearing, so this toilet paper that's pretty enigmatically become the main thing you need to have at home, she goes and says don't look at me, I don't have any more toilet paper, so I had to buy it, so I went so everyone didn't think I was doing supplies at home. Why this toilet paper has become the most important thing is hard for me to figure out. And now we're going, the government is going with all that being followed, faced and tried to get out of it at this point. I estimate that's the way she could somehow, she knew and she got involved. Is he the best? We'll see through time. When you do some sort of system of measures, then you should always do it in the short, medium and long term. In the long run, let's be honest, we don't know if this warm weather is gonna go away, so we'll try to get along or keep going. But let's do it a little bit, and I said it in the meetings, so I'm using it from this pay phone, the opposition is going to say some things, the opposition is going to suggest some things, just listen a little bit, don't automatically when something comes from the opposition or in the form of an amendment to say the opposition is, it doesn't matter. When you saw this whole set of laws that was a proposal, you have at the end the last law is the law that we from the GLAS Club went to, the proposal went on Friday. And I'm talking about some short-term stuff. So, what are we interested in right now? Our interest is, therefore, to see what is to be taken care of, and this beauty that must be taken care of is immensely great. You have to make sure that really people who are in self-insulation stay there and not that they are formal in self-insulation, that they have a solution and that with their friend drinking coffee, even in the yard, in the yard of that friend. So you can see for yourself that cafes, if people were relatively, I would say take it seriously, you see it by traffic in the City of Zagreb, by people as many on the street and on the road. We went with the suggestion that when someone is found to be in self-insulation to receive compensation for not everyone in self-insulation can do their job. Someone can, but someone who's usually a merchant who goes into self-insulation or someone who's infected with the coronary virus comes to buy something, can't do his job. We went with this proposal, of course in this set of measures, and they didn't assess that it might need to go, we seem to need it, we think it would be good if it was in this set, I'm even on Friday when we suggested it, and we suggested, we waited for it to work out a little bit, we said we don't mind, we're going to suggest you, we're going to say well you did, here we're going from our withdrawal let yours go, but we need to regulate it. So it's not regulated at this point and it stays as a problem. Someone from a home of self-insulation can do their job, someone who has to be in self-insulation can't because it's his job to work with another man, he can't. Also, we have a situation, so it's all good if it's gonna take 30 days, we're all gonna get along somehow. We have kids who don't go to kindergarten, we have kids from 1st to 4th grade who are at home, these guys are older, so you're already kind of planning. You can't give those kids to your grandparents because they're in danger. Someone has to have a baby, I appreciate it, until fourth grade, the experience I've had, to be home. Someone can be from home and do their job and his employer can tolerate it, but someone can't. Someone who, on purpose, is a merchant in a place where he's either in a store or someone who's a nurse. Imagine the case of two young health care professionals and have two kindergarten children or up to 4th grade and have no one to leave these two children with. You can't drag him to work, impossible. You have such a responsible job, someone with that child must be home. So these are things, I'm not going to say that it's top priority, but it's something short-term that should be taken care of and something that needs to be regulated and in this set it should have come about. As opposition clubs, we had our first meeting in the government on Saturday. On Saturday, so I've been doing different jobs and I know that sometimes you get in trouble and you start dealing with that moment. I don't think this set of measures is something that's carved into stone, I think he's gonna have to change. My proposal was then to go with one law, to be one law that would define the actions of different sectors, different situations related to a monster called the Coronal Virus. At the time, Minister Maric thought about it, but if he gave it up, it seems to me that it would be good if it were in one place. In this way you are both more operational and write down all sectors that are, everyone knows that during a time there are two provisions in one law where its sector works that way. It's still not too late for some things to change and some things to happen. I think it was already said here that at this point we can relate to this set of measures, so some short-term ones you need to define right now and you need to prevent the situation that you have right now. It seems to us that this is about self-insulation, about the parents you're home, about certain companies that at the moment while I'm talking and while we're being fired in this issue. At this point, the waiters and chefs are the most fired. Everyone who went to the portals sees pictures of waiters and chefs in front of the institutions where they apply because they lost their jobs or got fired. We need to see what other countries have done. Denmark, among other things, passed the same one, passed one law, prescribed a series of things, and among other things it was said that during the time it was declared in the Danish disease epidemic that anyone who fired the worker could not use a set of measures that they had prescribed. I think it should be in these laws too, that anyone who fired a worker he can't use this set of measures because he himself has done something that isn't good. So it can't apply to him. Likewise, at this point, we have something that must not be questionable and that must be sufficient means to operate the health system. And here we must praise and say that we, dear God, have that system of Dr. Andriye Printer, who we have failed to destroy to the end even though we are on our way and which is showing up in these crisis situations well and that goods must operate at the moment. Because without that, if the transport of goods doesn't work, we'll find ourselves in trouble. That's where we can find ourselves in trouble that there's no one else to drive anymore. So we have to be prepared for that, and then these measures that the Government has given these measures, and that word of delay has really bothered everyone in the ear. It would be incomparably better if instead of that delay, a clear attitude. I have to admit that I have that understanding in a certain way. If you could predict how long this will take then we could and predict something else like this you're just postponing for another time, and here we come to this mine so it'd be good to have one law that would make it all more defined and simpler, you'll be more operational, you'll come with some laws that need to be changed and there'll be a problem of operationality. I really do, and we at the GLAS Club are aware of the facts that we've found ourselves in, we're aware that on this option when you have a coronary virus, when you have so many patients, there's no place for populistism and there's no place for locals, it's basically guys who like to play war, and they like to make very important decisions, so they're going to make some decisions. We as a liberal party are absolutely more acceptable to us than that decentralisation and that some decisions should be made at county headquarters, municipal, city and other, but this is a situation where we never doubted at any time that decisions must come from one place, that indeed these guys put themselves in uniform, take pictures in uniform and threaten someone. So that's not your situation. It's not a situation for the population to use this pay phone, so we're pretending to be very important what we should, if we should, and so on, but neither is the situation of pretending you know that the grandmother is combing, and the village is burning. Me and us in GLAS when we're looking at this set of measures, so we should be, we're going to be, we're really confused, but we're finding a certain way of understanding, that you know how long we could take and you know how much you have at your disposal and we might be able to define some other things so we're sure that when we see some more things, there's still a set of laws to come in and some more things to iron out, and there's still some things we need to work out. But what we need to do at this point, we need to do and put all the heads on the pile and see what the medium-term set of measures we need right now. So, you have free artists who can't do their job, you'll have craftsmen who, by decision of headquarters, will question what day it will be, no they can't work, there are other than the hospitality that we're all talking about, we're a very successful part of craftsmen under quotes, of course this is sarcasm solved. But here you have craftsmen who provide a man's service, so here you have hairdressers, you have pedicures, you have cosmetic salons, so we're talking about what women are, but it's not what men are very fond of. So you have all this other stuff that they're no longer allowed to do. During a time when they can't work, so we have something that will be able to pay their wages but a series of other things, and it will be, and we have to let them live. There are all kinds of people who have really been self-employed, who are more, all those who do their job in direct contact with the parties with people can no longer work. This is the moment when, as she said at the beginning, the devil seemed to us to be the devil, and now the question is just how much is this nemaniac who knocked seriously on the door of Europe and seriously at the door of Croatia how long it would take to open and a series of things. But I wish we hadn't come out of this like every time. You know, when something happens, then we all shake and kind of adapt, and then we forget. This points to two big things, and what we've been saying all along. The first thing is that we hang on tourism and 20% of our GDP hangs on tourism. And when tourism happens when it gets a little cold we have all these serious problems. The other thing is that for years we have really hired food production, so what we should have taken care of was simpler and more comfortable from some other countries. And that's two things we need to be seriously concerned about. But there's one more thing that needs to be taken care of at this point. We have a lot of young people who have left, exchanged with Europe. Europe has bigger problems, and I think of one Spanish, and I mean even one England that ignored it, Ireland, I mean France and Germany with serious problems. That's where it's gonna happen. They don't just fire at our house. He'll fire anywhere. We'll at some point find ourselves in a series, a series of troubles, and we need to take care of it. It's final now. Let's think about that short-term, think about these two measures that would really be good. We understand the government's efforts, but what's at this point doesn't stop, but go on and see what else needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188953	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats, and time will be shared by respected representatives Mrsic and Vlaovic. First respected representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188954	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. After the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia decided on 11 March to declare an outbreak of the coronary virus 19 in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, a series of measures have been taken to limit the work of certain services and business entities. Here I would show my admiration and trust to my colleagues who are now on the front line of the battlefield against the coronary virus because we are at war. We are at war against the virus and in that war we need to set up certain things and measures. And what's to praise at this point is how the government and the health authorities control the crisis. The very goal of crisis control is therefore to reduce the health system and the pressure on the health system to the maximum extent possible to allow the system to function. And so all the measures to be taken and to be taken in the coming days are going to reduce this pressure, and that it curves the incidence of new cases as low as possible that we do not have a big increase because it simply will not be able to endure it. What happened in the last few days was to expect the virus to come to our hospitals. That's what happened in China. In light of the experience of Chinese colleagues from Wuhan, I think our colleagues at the Ministry of Health know what to do now, because what is most important is to provide a sufficient number of doctors and nurses who will take care of patients. The virus is absolutely safe in the population, and we are probably expected to be banned in the next few days because it is something that allows us to control the spread of the virus in the population. That's what everyone has to be aware of. I think she's aware of both the government and the measures she's now proposed are for things to be controlled. I would refer to some of the things that are now waiting for us and the things that should have been better solved by this set of laws that are today in front of this House. I have already pointed out on several occasions that the labour sector, especially this part that is related to the Croatian Employment Service, is expected by our workers from the Employment Office, given that in many activities it will stop working and that it will not be possible for workers to have their salary to be better prepared, I think there is still time, although it is late. What should be expected is that in Croatia we will lose about 45 to 50 thousand jobs in the next week or two and that is the fact that is ahead of us. That's the government aware of that. However, it is obvious that the Croatian Employment Service was not ready because the ranks are large in front of the Institute itself and I do not know why it is necessary for someone to come physically to meet the unemployment application and to have the right to receive compensation. The idea of having a minimum measure as a compensatory measure is something that is one fire measure. However, it should really be thought that a large part of the people who will be fired as a technological surplus will come to the stock market to have the right to 70% of their salary. Well, then they'll be paid more to go to the stock market than to stay with the employer at the minimal. It's one thing to think about when a decision like this was made or to combine the funds that we have available to pay the unemployment benefits along with these means that we thought and wanted to allocate for the minimumer to make the fee slightly larger, to stimulate employers to leave workers in a working relationship without sending them to HZZ. I have already pointed out to the prime minister the problem of our sent workers, but also to the problem of our fellow citizens who have gone to Ireland or other countries, there is a lot easier and much faster than in the Republic of Croatia and since they have the right to compensation for unemployment, most of them will think about where to receive this fee because they have the right and the possibility to receive compensation in the Republic of Croatia. If they return to the Republic of Ireland, the funds should then be refunded from the Republic of Ireland and should enable them to make it as simple as possible, as efficient as possible and that return and that trauma they experienced to make it what, as simple as possible. As far as the economic measures are concerned, I think that in that part of it it was necessary to have a better step because we will certainly come to these measures, there is an old when, an old thing, and otherwise in medicine it is known that when you have gangrene then you go to a healthy one, and you don't cut a piece at a time, and in this situation where we are now, I think you should be braver with the measures themselves, so the Democratic Party, we suggest that you think about paying for all the workers working in all closed activities for up to 8 weeks to ensure themselves for the next two months because it's absolutely certain that the crisis itself will continue. We also propose to suspend the payment of housing loans to the first real estate, a state guarantee fund should be established for this purpose and it is necessary to ensure that this moratorium is at least up to 18 months. Support for small and medium-sized, small craftsmen and self-employed persons who are in 2019. They did not receive more than £100,000, so they will be forced to suspend their activity, most of them, very few will reduce them, the state must find a way to compensate them, from these measures we have not seen such a thing. The government has proposed a postponement of payment of salary contributions. But what we think about in the Democratic Party is that it will eventually need to be written down and that it should have been made clear that it goes into writing it down and simply won't be able to solve things so that in the end it is compensated. As for the pay cut, it's in local self-government, but I think local self-government has to go along with the state and that it should also think about stopping that tax because you won't have anything to charge because, if people can't, they can't work. Also suspending the collection of rents, business premises owned by cities, municipalities and county is something you should think about and the government is, I think, supposed to give a certain abandonment through it. It's absolutely certain that these measures that are now going after delays and for everyone else are actually measures that go for the full payment of that, so that simply people won't be able to pay for it, but they'll have to write off. He would also point out here another problem that is related to people who are in the status of fees, those who, for example, have, therefore the copyright fees, are not, therefore, in that RPO system or are not craftsmen, so if they can't work, if they are in quarantine, if they are on self-insulation, they have no right to be sick, so they have no defacto at the time when they can't work, they can't pay anything and certainly that leads to problems in their work, and we certainly believe that the state, apart from the functioning of vital and public services, should be clearly determined according to the personal spheres of life of citizens, so that at this point we should tax free journalists, and employers should provide certain measures to ensure that the compensation of contracted monthly fees is paid to permanent associates or free journalists. These are all things that need to be seen in all of this. The Democratic Party will propose a single amendment in the assembly as well. In fact, the government has decided to tackle the resources involved in training persons and hiring disabled persons, we believe that this is not appropriate or that, because, if we do so, the epidemic is ongoing, then it is necessary to limit the powers of the minister because the legislator has provided that the minister can do so by one decision, we believe that only up to 20% of the funds paid. A colleague of Vlaovic will move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188955	The respected representative Davor Vlaovic will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188956	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, my colleague Mrsic also said that this package is a measure, 63 measures are welcome and are necessary, but we also think that the HSS are partly and late and are not enough. When I say that they're partly late. 63 days late is evidence that the presidents of the wood industry, who first felt this crisis, wrote to the Government early in February and indicated what problems they faced in the placement of their products and that they could not secure the market or placement for their products and that they would have to fire employees, propose concrete measures, there was no reaction, here until today, and also the newly fired workers were 500 reported to the employment office these days by new people who had lost their jobs, for them was the late implementation of these measures. We expected more specifically from HSS, faster help for craftsmen, family farms, micro and small businesses and tourism workers. For, above all, aid to agriculture and assistance to the consumer, as well as to the function of protecting the health of citizens. And once again, congratulations to all public health professionals officers, customs officers and all those who are in the service doing fantastic work, but if we really want to be a real and legal state, if we want to feed our consumers and our population and have a healthy population, then we need to ensure food production in the Republic. And I guess it must finally be clear to everyone, especially in this crisis situation when the borders are closed, when the goods are a little short, it becomes clear to everyone that it is necessary for Croatia to have sufficient food production for its population. We certainly can do that on agricultural land and other resources. Why we don't do this is simply not clear and certain that we need to turn to agriculture and ensure food production for all our population, that it is sufficient and that it is followed, which is important in terms of protecting the health of citizens. We have not taken advantage of the possibility of short, short supply chains from field to table and surely we must now ask ourselves where our stock supplies are and in what state they are, 500 million kuna is the value of the stock as much as is in that value of agricultural and food products. I agree I don't need to panic, and the economy minister told me this morning that they're tracking 50 products on the market, the state of the shelves, and they're going to react, yes, they're going to react, and from where they're going to react, if the borders are closed, if there's nowhere to be introduced. For example, here is just a lack of livestock food, soybeans should be introduced as a basis for the production of livestock food, there is nowhere to be introduced, and we exported our own. And the fact that our producers, our food industry, are in the scissors of import and export lobbies. Now we want to keep working on them getting rich, and that's going on the burden of our residents and on the burden of our citizens, on the burden of our producers. The fact that this payment delay has produced one new effect that no obligation to the supplier is paid. You've got the goods delivered, we know the buyer's got that liquid on his account, and he's not paying his dues, he's waiting, what's he waiting for. I think that the Ministry of Finance has to react hastily and send it to the field, see who these speculators are making money in this situation, and who don't pay their dues, because then this producer and the food industry will have to fire workers if they can't pay their dues, and here's a tip from the field. And that when I said that these measures were not sufficient grounds for this, it was a memo from the food industry producer from Slavonia who said, we are entrepreneurs from Slavonia, the government measures we cannot accept, we cannot preserve jobs but we must fire the workers. Why? The adoption of measures in this crisis resolution package comes with a debt we didn't have to contribute workers who didn't work. Only Plenkovic and Maric can accept this and no employer will accept it. Please say that in the assembly as well as what the employers are thinking. And it's not true what Mr. Plenkovic said that he was supported by employers. Signed by employers from Slavonia. It is likely that small craftsmen and entrepreneurs, micro entrepreneurs from all over Croatia think alike, and we need to find models to write off their debts because they simply do not work, if they can't pay for neither workers nor contribute. And only through a new loan will it be drawn into a new debt. Also, here I have to highlight the problem in the woodworking industry that I have already mentioned, and it was the first to feel the crisis they are exporters, somewhere revenue from exports from the wood industry around a billion and 200 million euro. Over 50,000 people have been employed in this sector, have finally lived a little and started production, and would remind them that in 2008, they also felt a crisis and over 6,500 workers were fired in this sector. Let's not let that scenario happen again, they are looking for urgent interventions towards the wood sector because it is not enough just to postpone their payment to the Croatian forests from 60 to 100 days, although they have asked for 120 days, but also to seek direct credit lines from the HBOR because what business banks are offering is not counting on business banks because they are already over-indebted and will not pass at business banks and expects the state to use HBOR direct lines to the wood industry. They are also looking for an urgent response for the sector of pellet production in Croatia where we have finally reached some level that we are a significant producer at the world level of pellets. Currently in Croatia there are 1,000 trucks of finished goods we have no place to place. It's over 5-6,000 jobs, and here's just one example of how it can be solved. The government orders HEP to incinerate pellets in TE Plomin along with coal, to buy these pellets from wood growers, preserve jobs, and we also have an ecological approach to move from coal that pollutes the environment. The prices of wood mass should also be seen, go with the reduction of the prices of wood mass towards the wood industry, and what is crucial is what farmers are looking for, and here I am speaking on behalf of representatives of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, Association of Family Agricultural Economics Life and other associations that require urgent payment of all incentives, up to 100% of the amount of 15.4. in order to ensure quality spring seed. They're looking for a credit reprogramme, freezing payments until the crisis is over, i.e. .../incomprehensible... a period of one year. They are also looking for new credit lines for family farms to ensure liquidity, wages and sick leave because if the OPG holder is self-employed in his OPG and self-insulation that he will pay contributions and live on what he will do. It must be paid to him as well as to a worker in such a situation. Of course, there are important and entry prices of reromatries, so here's just an example of the fuel of the blue diesel they use to increase quotas and to build production and to lower the price of blue diesel, reduce excise duties on blue diesel, here's an ideal parameter if a litre of blue diesel were a litre of milk, and then they could produce and be competitive with European manufacturers. And also a reduction in electricity prices for farms and other processing facilities, at least to pay only consumption not to pay the employed power. Here is one of the measures where the Government and HEP can be urgently involved and helped by our producers. We also need to help our agricultural producers who have exports to the food industry due to the closure of borders, in which way to resolve and see how to allow this transport to go and that these goods are travelling, and what is important is that they can enter the spring seed and ensure that food is sufficient, here is a proposal for the stock reserves to write a public invitation to organise production as much as Croatia's wheat, corn, soybean, sugar, sugar and production contracts with concrete repayment deadlines and with concrete prices. This would be the biggest and best aid to agricultural producers, and if we want a healthy nation and if we want to eat food that is from domestic production and is known to be of origin, then let us help and raise Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188957	Thank you very much. It seems to me that the esteemed representative Lovrinović wants a break, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188958	That's right. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia, Live Wall I'm looking for a break of ten minutes. Why am I looking for a break? After presenting the Prime Minister with a package of 63 measures to help the economy due to problems with the coronary virus, I was definitely convinced that the package of measures would not achieve the expected results. There are also good measures, but it didn't hit the srid. I ask for a break to further consult with each other, as well as with our party experts to change Croatia. Namely, what does this package mean to entrepreneurs? He does not solve anything important, the situation will deteriorate, the total income will drop, the number of employees will be reduced, the number of cancellations increased. It is necessary to postpone or charge only VAT, all other taxes, taxes, contributions, contributions not to be paid as long as the crisis takes place. I've recently received an answer from the IRS and asked only how many unpaid taxes, they said 28 billion kuna. Last year they wrote off 2 billion kunas, I asked who, they said it was a tax secret we can't tell you. In the state budget, a total of all income taxes are collected by the state 2 billion. Please, I'm telling you very exact indicators, I'm asking the government to do this, it doesn't mean anything to entrepreneurs to prolonging because that means you won't die in two, three days, but you will in a few months. write down their taxes, revenues, etc. And so this is how it's handled, cancel the purchase of 235 cars, and I'm asking that today's decision be made and that we turn to the right complex and designed solutions to this crisis. And at the same time, I want to commend all those who in their jobs, especially in health, police and civil protection, are doing their job. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188959	Thank you very much. Of course I'll give you a break and I'll see you again at 16.05. I'd just like to draw attention to us still have one club of representatives, and after that we have reported a very large number of individual debates, I hope that with replicas we'll be able to finish this before the end of today or 24.00 hours ago. Here, I'll see you like I said at 16.05. It's 3:55 p.m. Here's a colleague and a colleague, our break is over, and now, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16.05 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188961	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The atmosphere is truly self-insulating in the Parliament, and what I would like to begin on behalf of the SDSS Club is the following, 100 years ago, a pandemic, one of the largest that has been hit in history by a shell species after two, three pandemics of the plague, which in the 16th and later in the 17th century, which is the pandemic of the Spanish flu, Spanish or Spanish as it was called in certain regions that it took away, since it began at the end of World War I, carried away millions, I will not now say what number because it is not reliablely true, but an enormous number of victims. The reasons why it was so are the following, first because it was hidden under wartime circumstances hiding disease and hiding disease data. Another reason why so many victims were, because countries were mostly broken down, exhausted from wars, and poorly organized and with poor medical opportunities. Fortunately, today's situation in Croatia and in a number of other countries in the world is different, in some like Singapore or like South Korea or China, in some worse ones like Italy, such as Spain. We'll have it under control for now, and let's hope it stays that way. In this respect, and in this regard, I would like to say the following about what we are discussing today, about the measures that the government is taking in the economic sphere. Before deciding on these measures, she set up health care in a way that responds adequately to the pandemic and indeed the results are visible, although the pandemic has not reached its peak and has not reached all those levels that it can reach and although we do not know how long it can last. In any case, health care is fortunate with certain weaknesses in certain places and shows the ability to act as regards the health of our people and at all health in Croatia such that it is beyond the expectations that we are used to discussing here in the Assembly, discussing waiting lists, discussing medicines that are missing or about a number of other things. This shows we have capacity. I will feel free to say this because the other parts of public health in Croatia that were developed at that time not only since 45, but after World War I, when Andrija Stampar was developing along with his... and others in other parts of the former Yugoslavia developed public health according to the needs and needs of people and their possible illnesses, which at that time were as lethal as tuberculosis or pneumonia or similar types of disease. Another reason why it's so effective is because we reacted relatively quickly and learned from the experience of those who paid the most, which is China in the first run. And in that respect, we were a little more allergic and that's why we should commend the government no matter which side we belong to because we were more allergic than our neighbor Italy. We were a little bit happier when the doctor's behavior occurred and we hope that these failures that occurred in certain hospitals will not be continued in any way. Another aspect that is extremely important is information including our actions, sending our messages because this is how people behave. The more accurate the information, the more concentrated, the more objective, the more convincing it will take for less cops and soldiers on the street. This means less spending, less reaching for the repressive parts of the state's apparatus. That's why all the media, which is why every one of us who speaks must show maximum responsibility in terms of what is necessary to make all local communities, including all forms of joint organization of the church, not the government organisation. Minority organisations such as minority organisations, which I belong to, must contribute to creating objective information and react without delay to inform people about how to behave and how to behave, at the same time promoting solidarity with people who cannot provide themselves with what is most necessary. As far as the economy is concerned, I understand as someone here said this was the first and necessary step, the first and necessary step. Let us hope that some more will not be needed, and it is not excluded because no one can guarantee us how long this condition will last, as long as the disease develops, and let us hope that it will not be renewed as I mentioned from 918 and 912, respectively. So the Spanish influenza subvirus of the bird flu or the subgeneous bird flu of that time. So let's also hope those who advocate more radical measures at this point have arguments for that I'm sure. But, like when it comes to the control of the spread of the disease, so the hospitals don't choke like this here in the economy. If we were to pay off everything now, if we were to crack everything we could shoot now, then in that case, we'd be at our disposal in six months if God didn't have to. That's why we support these measures that the government has taken and there are. It's a long list. In the short version, it is almost 30 measures, and in the longer version it is 63 measures in which a whole series of reliefs will be made for economic operators. Is there a reserve for more? There is. Some say lower salaries to people in the public sector. If it has to be done, it'll be done. But the balance of these three elements must be taken into account. On the one hand, try to maintain growth or stop its further decline and liquidity. On the other hand, preserve budgetary users. Imagine reaching out to radical VAT measures to preserve tourism, so what would we do with healthcare under these circumstances where health needs will be further increased? And the consequences of these needs are also further strengthened. So we should have in this respect a measure and we understand the government when it decided on this kind of combined compromise approach when they are in response to this measure. It's not a small amount of money, but let's also keep in mind that it's possible for it to be even bigger money and to reunite and we need to gather to be able to take additional measures in this regard. Another thing I want to say is solidarity, especially European solidarity. In particular, the solidarity of the European Union in these circumstances with countries such as Croatia, such as our neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, such as Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia and other all countries, and Italy and we will not skip it from economic inequalities to other members that deserve more solidarity than we do at the moment. I can understand that everyone takes care of themselves at first, but the EU is then not the Union if it does not take care of what is the situation in the common area of it, what is the situation in certain Member States, because this will preserve not only cohesion in economic terms but also preserve cohesion in a political sense. Then those who say the EU made sense to everyone who says it didn't make sense, so you can see it makes sense. If it doesn't, then it will strengthen those amongst us, among our citizens who will say, so what do we care, if one Germany has decided to ban, exports will sell their medical devices because of the fact that they can have their own, and the rest of them can manage, then of course, no one wants such a Europe in which everyone will be selfish. In these circumstances, solidarity should be shown. If it has already lagged behind in the economic crisis with Greece and other countries as well as ours, then it should be shown in this situation because this is a humanitarian moment, much deeper than whether it is spent this much or so much money in the budgets of certain countries. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic has a significant reputation for European institutions and among the people who lead the EU. And I am taking this opportunity to say that we trust that they will take advantage of this reputation in order for the EU to turn its attention to those who need help because we are neither Trump nor Johnson, nor Macron, nor Merkel, so that we can single out hundreds of billions of dollars, any EUR, we are not capable of tens. In this regard, we hope that, as was the case with so far in some things, the Prime Minister will open up space in talks as many as possible and as soon as possible, especially now as the Republic of Croatia is the chairman, to strengthen the element of solidarity given the consequences of the economic and overall consequences of the spread of this virus and its devastating consequences. The third thing I'm going to mention is this is an opportunity for anyone who gets through some kind of trouble or anyone who experiences a disaster like this, if she doesn't learn something from it, then she can hope for the next one. What, though, do we need to learn as the other lands are clearly learning? America is only now introducing free testing, Singapore has never abolished it, fortunately neither have we. So not only should we keep what we have from public health and the public sector, but it needs to be strengthened. It is likely that the number of hospitals should be reduced, but primary health care should be strengthened and people should remain here, doctors, sisters, and others. Second, research and science. What kind of world is this where we live, no matter how many reasons the ordinary world or each of us will admire the history of Ronald or the Messiah or one of our players who will monthly arrive at a million euros, and a biologist at a research institute in Madrid who currently suffers from hundreds of people who are suffering, 1800. Is that a good idea? It's not. Is that supposed to stay? You don't have to. Such a world must change because it is wrong. And the third thing I want to say is, our economy can't rest on tourism, it can't have devastated agriculture, Mrssic and counterpart Vlaovic said well, stressing the importance of these two sectors. Once the stock reserves had live meat, we barely got frozen today. Sometimes it wouldn't be any problem to have the masks that are needed, and we today, our people in the economy whine if they didn't have money, so what kind of state is that, what kind of economy is that that isn't able to produce masks? How was she led? How's she conceived? And in that sense, it is time to imagine that the prominent people, experts led by the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic of Croatia, are gathering together to start a debate about getting out of this dangerous trap that we found ourselves in when it comes to our economic policy and the structure of our economy. Otherwise, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support these measures. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188962	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to an individual debate and the first one will speak to the esteemed representative, Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188963	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state. I'll just do a few things over and over again, really be as brief as possible, because I don't think the Republic of Croatia has time, not the public, not all of us, to talk too much in this wide and inconclusive way. So, before us are the measures that are going towards the consequence of this security threat. We also have other measures of work that go towards prevention, enlargement, so also towards stopping panic or information. I think we need to stop everything for three weeks, just keep the minimum minimum running, and something like when you see what happens at the 8th month in Zagreb or Osijek, so there's no living soul. And all the roads are less or less empty and everyone's gone somewhere. That's what we need. Then why isn't anything falling apart? Then why isn't it panic? Because people know that in three weeks, they'll come and work and move on and have a job. We take it seriously, and at the beginning we take it that way, and we're going to have a good time and we're going to go ahead and we're going to be able to go back in two, three weeks, and it's going to be... So it will-it won't, a little bit or two, so we're waiting for it to take three months, and that's the difference in that anyway in the next month of this proposal, the measures according to... [[You don't understand.]] to delay. [[You don't understand.]] Not delay, but allow the moratorium to see what that means. The state should pay here we can call it its kind of interkalay interest, so from the moment of termination of payment to the first annuity to pay that interest on the used funds and that perhaps the state subsidises the economy and citizens. And when this is over, they just keep going, not have three wars waiting to be reprogrammed, add and then iron over the next six months. It's the first and most basic thing for citizens who are out of a job, who are going to get paid, who are going to do whatever this is, and if we take it hard, clear and certain these three weeks, we act like they're all on a yearly basis, but then they come back because we know what's waiting for us in three weeks. If we're disciplined, we're informed, then we won't have a crisis. She's already here, but I'm talking about something bigger. I don't get it, this one of the measures here that we see, more or less we understand each other, and I just don't get it in my head when someone says three, the other says it takes four, someone says I'm gonna give five, the third says I'm gonna ten. That bidding I don't want, I think it's done with the aim of courting the citizens. But the idea first is that we recognize what the criteria are for someone to say he's an entrepreneur with difficulties. Now this could apply to a large part of the entrepreneurs. How will they prove it? If you look at it according to the bonus, so you look at it on the 31.12. Then no one will be or very few will be with difficulties if we take it as a criterion. I don't know, that's what I asked, I didn't get an answer. That's where you'll be looking for that shade. And when we talk about not sharing money because it's the easiest thing to share, we try to get all the state resources we have to hire people in different sectors. I mentioned it was a kind of application of one of the articles of the Public Procurement Act where it can go into the negotiation process in three offers, shorten deadlines or not to enter months to work, to equip schools, to hire wood industry, to hire co-workers, to employ processors of various and diverse service activities, masters. So everything that could be left out of a job for the state to do with its intervention as well as a kind of mini-new deal to go into these two, three months and maintain full employment. That way it'll help people best, give them money. The construction sector, the roads to do, what is planned on Croatian highways by the end of the year, let everything start to work now. I was driving here yesterday anyway, two trucks and seven cars were on their way to Zagreb. So one lane can automatically close the highways and do whatever it should do because a lot of times aren't exactly the brightest anyway. Now, find the means to do it and move it, so by different sectors, it'll tie up lawyers, public notebooks and these caterers that today thousands of them are out of a job. I don't really believe it like my colleague Anka Dark said these guys are waiting in front of the Bureau. The office is closed and does not work with the employment parties. But that a thousand were already out of work. Now use it when we're going to get that part of the diet attached to it, and we've already done it. So that's a particular thing. Do you change the Public Procurement Act? Do you apply this article? Do you go to European Union level with directives? Do you lift the thresholds? Whatever. The goal must be to make the state act effectively in the next two weeks to order jobs for what it will have to do anyway. Let the kids get new benches, new chairs, plates, work in hospitals, whatever. Maybe hospitals shouldn't be touched, but we know what I mean, not our famous system to start getting something, so six months... And that's how it works for... [[You don't understand.]] So that would be some suggestion where you can consider moving, to get people to work and work on the conditions that are controlled and in health care. [[You don't understand.]] Once again, agriculture is a secure topic. We see now that no country in the world is independent, and even Russia, which is huge, depends largely on both imports and other things, and on technologies. No one can be an island itself and be enough for themselves. That's illusory. It's illusory. Russia can't, but Croatia could never be sure of that either. But what can also work on the European market together in the European Union, which now shows its real meaning and now competes with its production while there is more seed, while it can still be detected, while they can still detect what are important cultures and that a little more is being hired and helped already means existing agricultural producers to get as much into the market as possible, which could be estimated to be missing. And in that, in these two ways actually regulate all the negative things that await us. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188964	Thank you. Here's to your exposure. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188965	Dear colleague Curray, here you are proposing three weeks to stop life. As far as I know, you're in the ruling coalition, so make a deal with Prime Minister Plenkovic. He's got other things to do. You can't act like an opposition here, suggest some measures, and on the other hand, all mention what he says. So, make a deal, you're in power, you're in opposition. As far as I know, you're in charge. So don't pretend to be in opposition or you'll do everything your big brother says so that these remarks are too high and ridiculous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188966	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188967	Well, I'm glad you didn't care if you reacted like that, so I said something good and did it. I'll continue to do my job, what you think when you were in power that you should keep quiet and be smaller than the mac's grains that's your attitude, mine isn't. I do my job. Thank God every other day and I have an amendment, something to accept, something not, fix, it gets better. Tomorrow we're going to have a birth benefits bill, and that's where I suggested, so I suggest here, too, because it's my job. Just because I'm interested in the benefit of all citizens, and not myself, we've entered this coalition through these educational reforms now it's seen that it's a good thing in the end and it wasn't, it doesn't mean that now we're gone, we've already proven it many times. But I think that's what makes you and it stings, because we were standing by our views, and then when you thought we wouldn't, and you stayed loyal to yours, and that's why you split up into... so I'm glad you found yourself a little upset here, so I'm doing a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188968	The next is the replica of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188969	Dear colleague Curai. Yes, we all agree that this intervention taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is very effective and very good quality and what it would particularly point out, which is our health care. No matter how much we criticized it, we see that it is very prepared for both health care professionals and doctors and the entire system equipped regardless of what we and some have constantly criticised this very same health care because it creates losses, etc., and now we see that it is quite ready to respond to all the challenges that are happening and in this case pandemic. And when you look at the fact that now compared to two days ago with 45, six just happened to some 80 people, so in that context you should be commended.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188970	Thank you. Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188971	Thank you. Yes, I also said at the outset that one big thank you to everyone, especially healthcare professionals, workers, crisis staff, everyone who works, because we recognized and acted. We see that around us from Slovenia and beyond the country goes much worse and that means that we have done something good. That also means we don't need a stat. This at the health level I think works well and that I really did and I read it somewhere, that our public health care is at an envious level, whatever we think of it but our public health institutions are really well organized, people know their jobs especially now epidemiologists, so on that side really thank you and I can agree with you there. And we need to ensure only and that's the same thing that we don't need to forget a fellow Pupovac mentioned, we need to provide them with unlimited work and all the resources they need to get. It doesn't need to be forgotten, and it's all the same tax pay, so let's remember when we have to share it with a hand and a hat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188972	The next replica is the respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188973	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Curaj, this idea of... that would be complete is one of the possible approaches of course, about a third of the countries have decided on such a thing, a third of what we did, and a third has decided to leave everything to fate to say so. The problem with this approach lies among other things in the fact that Europe and other countries have not made a single approach. We can solve the problem in Croatia in two weeks, open the borders for a passenger to come from somewhere we have the same problem. So there's no I'm afraid of a quick solution to the situation we're currently in, and I think it's important that somehow we all prepare ourselves mentally for one trench battle that won't be solved in two days, maybe not in two months, even though I really hope it will.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188974	Thank you. Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188975	Yes, in fact, that unitarian mentality is good for us, that Europe is not a subsidiary, that everyone thinks for himself, but now we need a strong Europe that's being heard from the central. A lot of that co-worker wouldn't exactly agree with that. Why do I say three weeks? Because that's what I've been offered, today I've come out of the Parliament, I've seen out there that there's really no people, there's not such a traffic jam, and it's all reminding me it's not that much at the 8th month when in August there's no living soul and it's all working and nobody's saying and nobody's afraid that they're gonna lose their jobs, everyone's on a yearly basis. The way that sharp cut really works is, and let's say it's going to be two or three weeks, and then we go, so what God might be the best solution. Not to say it's going to be to the end now, but literally, two weeks everyone inside, and then after what God lets us go back to this model, maybe something would get us better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188976	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188977	Comrade Curai, this is a war, a war against an invisible enemy, i.e. Coronation of the virus. However, the key question arises when we call for solidarity, we are all unanimous here that we should take measures, some we agree with, some we disagree with, but we will all support some of the measures proposed by the government or proposed by the opposition or by the majority. In Croatia, however, war profit has been waged if the war against the invisible enemy has been declared, against the virus. If the mask that was 50 June today was 12 kuna, it's a classic war profit, that's what we Parliamentarians need to talk about. Someone now creates capital on the victim, there was a similarity in the Homeland War, war profits should be condemned just like those in self-insulation, and they go even harder.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188978	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188979	Thank you. My colleague Bulj, as picturesque as ever, may not have used such words, these are still the laws of supply and demand in question, but it is the market that dictates the higher demand price rises up, regardless of what conditions. But I agree with you and I think that the government agreed with you and Prime Minister Plenkovic, and therefore the fixed prices are at 31.1. or which is the date this year when this world epidemic was declared so that now you just need to make sure that those control mechanisms work again and that something, I also saw on social networks and I got messages five days ago that the same article in the pharmacy three days ago was 30% cheaper, after what the government said were freezing prices. So obviously he's not sticking to it, and we should say that there's a little more to look at, and that can be done with more or less regular electronic checks of the fiscal accounts themselves that are being issued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188980	Comrade Bull, you've raised your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188981	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes because I warned you earlier in my speech. pointed out here in the Parliament on war profiting that is happening is a mask that is of 50 lip before the crown of the virus, against the war not only of Croatia but of the global world war against the crown of the virus suddenly that someone can claim that we need it, that this market situation imposes. No, gentlemen in the state of war are subject to the laws of war. No one can create empires and riches while other people die, others sacrifice themselves in solidarity, other people volunteer and even cheerleading groups that we often attack Torceda, the BBB organize help, and you will create tycoons of their empires. It's gentlemen, Mr. Curaj it's a war profit that needs to be condemned and legally prosecuted worse and more drastic measures to have than to those who inflict great evils that do not keep self-insulation and thus endanger the lives of our fellow citizens and ourselves. We need to be clear and precise here. If everyone talks and if the Prime Minister says and all the world leaders say it's a war, that this is a war against the crown of the virus, then there's no profit, not 100%, but from 50 limes to 12 kuna, which means 30 times the price. Well, gentlemen, it's a classic war profit against humanity, humanity. If anything must be us, any opposition, be ruling, be citizens, be the poor or those who have at this moment must be men, we must be men. If we don't have this humanity, then we haven't learned anything from this crisis, but we're encouraging wartime profits who have won their empires in the market and the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188982	Thank you. And colleague Curray raised his hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188983	I'm also asking you to take a 10-minute break to consult a little bit in connection with a colleague named Bulj. So, to be clear, I don't justify it, it might not be called war profit, perhaps before the crisis profit or the source of profit whatever. Someone recognized their position on the market, recognized the demand, and brutally raised unwarranted prices, and this was recognized and fixed by the government. And now all you have to do is make sure it's done. What's certainly important is that it's now diagnosed, that it's foreseen, I think even until it's taken some huge scales and that we really need to work more on informing people. I said here early in the morning, yesterday I went to Osijek, went to the high school playground of hundreds of people, hundreds of people playing football, basketball, volleyball, let's get those running around all right. Look, basketball is a contact sport I've played for 20 years, it's certainly not something that's recommended as preventing an infection. So if we already want to be in a city that has diagnosed patients we need to educate our citizens, especially the youngest that means being calm for two weeks, which means not being exposed, what are the measures. And at the same time with that information to prevent any panic and those 17 wheelchairs with the mocking toilet paper and I don't know what it's all about is another extreme, so it's always in the middle of the best. So I really suggest that these two weeks be maximum, because we know that the period of incubation is two weeks, etc. That is, while it can be shown that it is being limited as much as possible, but that immediately at the beginning it is said, that after Easter, everything goes back more or less in the old way, no matter what the picture is, and that might have any effect, and that might have a slight effect on the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188984	And my colleague Glavasevic raised his hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here on behalf of our club, I'm also asking for a break to consult a little bit. We found it very interesting what my colleague Bulj said, the idea of war laws, and as we know in the war executive powers, the President of the Republic gets. I am pleased that my colleague Bulj recognized the qualities of our new President Zoran Milanovic and wanted to give him more authority in these circumstances, so here we would consult among other things, so we are looking for a break of 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188986	Of course I'll take a break. I'll see you at 16.53 minutes. I hope we don't have a lot of breaks because then we'll stay here longer than midnight, but I'll see you like we said at 16.53. [[It's 4:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,38 HOURS]] /Tony recording problems./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188988	In agriculture, problems are getting bigger and bigger, you said well, now the opportunity to sow is to provide sufficient amounts of seeds, fertilisers, everything for plant protection, organize production, balance Croatia's needs and secure that production in Croatia, without it we will have no agriculture and no food for the population. Then there won't be a healthy population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188989	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188990	To actually agree, I should think as a second step, you can't of course all overnight we know that this has been done in the last few days and that all the movements on the market and generally the safety aspects and that when we talk about that knock down when it's all closed, of course it doesn't apply that life has to stop, that people can go to work in the field, let them do it. That's one reason. For example, Germany has exempt from the ban on retail trade, weekly markets, delivery service providers, pharmacy, specialized retail stores, drugstores, gas stations, banks and savings banks, postal service providers, dry cleaners, laundry shops, printers of course, shops of products from the office of the programme, garden and pet shops and wholesale shops. Why? They target it, of course, with control measures, especially hygiene measures and access control and all that to be done at the level to prevent spread. Why? Because they maintain and recognize actually the need to do one part, the good part and the agriculture sector, and also the buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188991	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic, vice president of this high house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188992	Thank you, thank you, Vice President. This is not the time for laisse-faire politics, nor for free-hand politics, but for most or invisible hands, so this is mostly the time for a stronger one in my name state intervention, therefore, concerning fiscal monetary policy. So, with a set of governments, the government measure that I support, I think we should actually think about some more of these measures right now. So, first of all, some administrative bureaucratic, which is a measure that concerns a more flexible relationship with the reduction of working time itself. So it's absolutely to be easier, not to be complicated by bureaucratic procedures. The second thing you need to think about is even influencing the VAT Act and in the short term you need to reconsider that you might absolutely abolish the tax on, the VAT on food delivery. After that, and what else the SDP has suggested I do not repeat myself. And think about it, now it's irrelevant, about free highways, about free ferrys for two months, I think it's a drop in the sea in the whole situation that's going on. Now, what is the crucial problem, the goods and money problem, is that we depend naturally on the economies of Italy, Slovenia and Germany. So we as a state can't afford to say we don't even have a higher fiscal capacity than 3% of GDP. Now, I think that these measures of prolongation, delay or later charge 24 months of different taxes of state let's call them taxes that should seriously consider including and contributing, I'm talking about the Law on pay and salary contributions. In fact, not to go into prologue, but to one-time measures, therefore, to be paid to entrepreneurs, so that, of course, through criteria, they enter critical sectors, whether it is logistics, hospitality, hoteling, so that they are refunded full salaries for workers who will remain at work. So full pay and pay contributions, not prolonged. Now you're asking me where it came from, like every question? Here's a fellow Shuker looking at me. So, we have one fact, and I'm just going to say in the beginning that I am, personally, a general advocate of the EUR, therefore, as a common currency, even Croatia to enter the euro area as soon as possible. Look, you have EUR 19 billion foreign exchange reserves and if we had now completed the entry and acceptance phase of the EUR, then we would have had EUR 6 billion left for a special fund. So when we pay for all the participation in the European, ECD,.../incomprehensible/... when we take the risks, then there would be EUR 6 billion that could be used under quotes extensively as we want. Smart countries make a certain fiscal fund, stability. So, we are now, so no one is stopping the finance minister or the governor of the National Bank from agreeing, of course, with the European Central Bank and now creating a fiscal fund under the management of the CNB, which is very important, from a billion, billions and a half of euro which has just served to cover these so-called so-called. A hole in the budget. I don't think you should be afraid of it at all, so it's no populism at all, you don't have to be afraid of it at all, you just have to take it responsibly towards how in the future what you're trying to prolong it so that it doesn't actually get to all of us in 6 to 12 months because you're going to bring the entrepreneurs back to the same story. It's going to be a problem where you take.../incomprehensible/... slave flows are disrupted. So, people are already waiting from Italy, Germany itself, for the production to stop, but I say this is how you try not to waste time, and in this way we give everyone together through measures of monetary and fiscal policy stronger intervention in the Croatian economic system. And I finally think, so purely intimately, I think this is the time for our extended community, which is called the EU, to see for itself its own reasons now, and I think that this is a good response of Europe to various populist movements, various different prophets, that it is with one common policy of solidarity and therefore by enabling stronger monetary policy so that we can together, I repeat, together, answer these questions. So I say, finally and finally try to go in this direction, make a fiscal solidarity fund together with the CNB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188993	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188994	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdash Doncic, you said something in your discussion about prolongations and helping the economy. So my view is absolutely that we need after the health or prevention that I am now thinking in focus and the most important thing that people take seriously the situation we are in. After that, it is important to see how companies survive, how the private sector survives because people stayed with 0 kuna of income overnight. Now, I'm the attitude that would be a much more quality solution not to make the state freeze debt than to simply pay off subsidies incentives per job. It means that it's pumping some money into the economy and it's helping, because I don't see the point of getting something out of the way that we know it's not going to be chargeable anyway, because we can't charge people with taxes and expenses and they don't even have swear income for a few months. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188995	The answer of Honorable Representative Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188996	Thank you for your observation, my thinking trail is similar in this case to yours because I think in this way we basically generated further personal consumption as the biggest... The anti-social product is a much better measure, so a direct subsidy, a direct donation, so not only to the current sectors that we now see are at stake than here, if there is a large number of closures, it's probably a small twist from, I don't know, a hairdresser to a pedicure, so it should basically be a direct subsidy from, I don't know, 25-30.000,00 kn should actually make it easier because this second definitely won't make sense in the middle term. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188997	And another replica of the respected counsel of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188998	Thank you very much. I'm glad you guys opened up some questions here. I was the other day when we discussed the Insurance Act tried to boost the debate on how much the power of the financial sector is total in the Republic of Croatia, not only the financial sector of the bank, there are also II. The pension fund pillar and insurance companies and all and ultimately it is the CNB. And this is the financial potential of the Republic of Croatia, and I am glad that it was the first meeting that we sat together at the table, and we in the coming days, not for weeks but days simply have to watch how this financial potential of the Republic of Croatia, it is definitely the Croatian potential of financial, use for measures to preserve what we can preserve. And that's the whole point and the whole story. And that's why this first package of measures was adopted. He's not a closed story, he's just the first step to be upgraded. But I think today we would show one big thing if we were just discussing this package of laws on behalf of clubs and thus showing the seriousness of this whole thing together. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u188999	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189000	I'm glad that you're involved because you know yourself that if you only pay for last year's CNB credit report in the Republic of Croatia, most of the credit actually went to the tourist sector, it went so for security loans, not security, it went in principle to loans without certain currency clauses, actually for fast loans that were exclusively focused again on small investments in the tourism sector. And precisely because of what we can predict, which is the decline in tourism income, these people, whether natural or legal, will have problems with return and therefore should activate the Croatian financial sector and the CNB and pension funds. So, uh... in a situation that isn't normal. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I definitely think, together with fiscal and monetary policy measures, that this can be tempered at the first moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189001	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189002	When we talk about crises, and this is a crisis, here's what we've been talking about all morning. Of course, every crisis shows what we have not done so far about the economy, about agriculture, about energy and how much it has actually done to the Republic of Croatia or its policies to make it self-sustainable. I'd just say that in the Republic of Croatia we have 800,000 hectares of land unprocessed. When I come back, I just recently gave a number of laws to protect agricultural land. to get our peasants to agricultural land because the fact is that out of 400 000 hectares of agricultural land that is under the weeds in the Republic of Croatia is not, is not divided, i.e. is not assigned to the Croatian peasant, the Croatian farmer, but is still under the weeds, and before 2nd g. We passed the Agriculture Act. In order for some measure to have its success and for a country to be sustainable i.e. in the Republic of Croatia, self-sustainability is under a large questionnaire, and this crisis must teach us to currently import EUR 2.5 billion of agricultural products, while at the same time 2.g. The Law on Agricultural Land was passed where it did not divide the land, so under our farmer, out of 400,000 hectares, only 11,000 hectares were divided, which means 2-3% of agricultural land in 2.g. For what? That's why, because it's so complicated this law, I've called it a kosher wheel. I'm sorry it's not the Prime Minister or the Minister or someone from the Ministry of Agriculture. A glass wheel when assigned agricultural land. Why? Is in this law a valid agricultural land of countries i.e. The Ministry of Agriculture provides an opportunity. It has determined that local self-government should develop programmes and divide the country, but with the opinion of the county. The mayor. And most have returned to those opinions, i.e. the land is not divided. That's the kosara wheel, that's that import lobby, that's those county pressures against local self-government. I can understand that to confirm the Ministry of Agriculture is property, a country owned by the state. Now, that's a goat's wheel, everybody's holding everybody and nobody's letting go, everybody's dancing. That's why we have production, the one who first smokes in that kosara wheel, that's the law of the kosara wheel, which is why today we have a colleague Curaj 400,000 acres of land under the weeds and 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia from your Slavonia to my Dalmatian burn, that's a fact, and that's why I've made a bill of law. Thank you to all parliamentary representatives, 20 parliamentary deputies who have signed to go into emergency procedure, to remove the county that they have to give opinions if they give political keys means everyone there controls, every one of them, and two years the law and there is no divided agricultural land, and what is worst Ministry that admits that it is wrong, Majdak, Secretary of State, admits that it is wrong, and no one is doing anything, and we import food products, if, and we have nothing to wait for, now the crops, are immediately passed the Law, if it is difficult to accept it, to accept my proposal or any other proposal, then let the Government freely take it as a measure, and let the country be shared with the Croatian village, because until the Croatian village is at the helm, until it is rich... The peasant, Croatian village and Croatian peasant, we will always be addicted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From this crisis which is of a healthy nature and, of course, economically, that is why these measures are being proposed, until the Croatian village and the agricultural land are processed, until we send messages from here, let's buy from Croatian peasants, buy from Croatian peasants locally, until then, always fellow Schuker will speak there and will not listen because of course they don't care that 400 thousand hectares of agricultural land are unprocessed. It is important that we dance the kosara wheel and that everyone holds, I will not say for what, and no one lets, and 400 thousand acres of land is unprocessed, we import 2.5 billion food products, in tourism when our branch is now threatened, instead of saying we will reduce our tourist employees, that is, to the owners of tourist facilities and everyone who deals in tourism, tax, because there is no and there will be no tourism if this crisis is such, it will be reduced, God forbid this is interrupted immediately. So instead of making conclusions now, learning something from this, we're not literally doing anything. Every inch of the Croatian agricultural country stands to be processed, planted, we have a market, a country that must now buy everything we have in this crisis in the OPG market, in all our producers, and put it in stock, and not that in crisis we depend on convoys of humanitarian or any kind. We have conditions, we have a village, but unfortunately empty, 2/3 of Croatia is empty, and that's what's wrong with politics, but if we see that we don't have enough food production, to import pomadores, as I say, or tomatoes from Italy in the tourist season, while my Sinjsko polje is not irrigated and drought or Slavonia is empty, or to import the most grains, bakery products in the Republic of Croatia, we import a billion kunas of pork, so what are we talking about? So bad policies, import lobbys, vermin in the ministry worked against the security of the national Republic of Croatia, 2/3 of Croatia are empty and now the coronary viruses, is the one that needs to learn, is the moment when we all have to take some kind of lesson and start solving problems. They call me from Dalmatia hosts, they call me entrepreneurs, they call me from other parts, and they say what it means to delay for 3 or 6 months, no, you're not going to die today, you're going to die in 3 or 6 months, so we need decisive measures. The Croatian state has the tools of decisive measures, and a decisive measure is not delaying, but forgiveness, not even forgiveness, after all privatisations, banks, robbery of social property, everything that has been created, everything has been destroyed, and now we are fighting for every job, essentially we are postponing these measures of death, essentially for 3 months. Every measure is supported by the triba, but would ask you to think about something, about getting back the main food production as it used to be, it's embarrassing when you go to Slavonia unprocessed land, my Zagor, Licom, there's no cattle fund, what stock is there?, I remember today I gave the prime minister support with his measures, I'm supporting the Staff in the fight against this virus, the Corona virus, but let me think, I don't get out of my head the moment our Ministry of Agriculture signed with China to export milk, so do you know if they're aware of where our dairy production is?, so here's when you're heading towards Sinj, according to, here you're from Tomislavgrad's respected secretaries, when you go down to the valley do you see cattle as you once, have cattle? No, there's only election time then if there is, then the lambs move and the promises are made, with that policy we have to break, the paradigm changes. Under emergency domestic production, let's not crash like geese in the fog, not to take lessons, that is, if we don't learn anything now, then it's a disaster. Or just before his colleague Curaj said, the market determines how many masks there will be, from 0.50 lips to 12.00 kuna, 30 times more expensive masks, protective masks, so that's classic profit. It's a disaster, it's a disaster. Any measure that helps the current economy, the economy, the health measures we take, of course we must welcome and thank everyone from the Parliament at this time, from police officers at the border, officers who are inside, our merchants, merchants, all people who work, security guards, all those, volunteers, fan groups, all who work and sacrifice themselves, and who sacrifice themselves to all volunteers. I'm proud and I'm heartbroken when I saw Torcida yesterday in this size and members of my former comrade of the 4th brigade moving the hospital to the Crosses, my heart... But if we don't, if we're not ready to make the decisions right, then there's nothing left of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189003	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, I think you've had enough time in general, but now you'll have more time because you'll be replicated by more people And Sagara too? [[We've also got a Sagary.]] All right, all right. The first is Mr. Maras. No, up, yeah, Dobrović, Mr. Dobrović. [[/Intruder: No, no.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189004	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj. You said that maybe now this crisis with the coronary virus is an opportunity to rebuild our agricultural policy, and I also think that this might be the last chance that this narrative situation where we export a billion euros less than we import, instead of us having this surplus that counts in billions of euros, which some other masters would certainly be doing to master this wealth and these resources. And especially when taking into account what is too little into account with us, which is the quality of food that our producers are able to produce. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189005	Well, it's amazing how many food products we're importing, and we've moved out our village. Okay? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[/Intruder Radin: Here you go.]] So it's amazing how empty our village is and how in fact targeted policies and pests and import lobbys have moved out on purpose the Croatian village because 800,000 hectares at this point have unprocessed land, and 400,000 hectares are owned by the state. In the last two years since the law was passed, only slightly less than 3% of the land has been divided 11,000 hectares. I'll tell you one example, we've got Castelan greenhouses that have been rewarded for their products and people who are fighting to survive that greenhouse on purpose are threatening them, the greenhouses are gone, and now there are people who invest all their energy, hire people to keep these Kastelan plastics working, but they're not allowed to work. It's the same with the fish farm that was in Ruda, which was the largest producer of trout in the river, was also targeted as we import fish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189006	Time. Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189007	Thank you. Col. Bulj, I agree with you that without agricultural production, food production we cannot develop a stable society and a sustainable economy and certainly there is no agricultural production without basic resources without agricultural land. The correct information is that 430 municipalities and cities have applied to the ministry for consent to the available programme, about 250 have received agreement, and another 200 is awaiting consent. And all 30 municipalities and cities have opened competitions, and all 10 competitions have been completed for the lease and the day the agreement is carried out in the competitions. It is late because the ministry was late with the adoption of the rules, it is late because it is not defined water protection belt and forest land and it is not the chiefs' fault. And the postponement of the lease will not help agriculture, they should be freed from the rents and concessions for this year while the crisis is and the production should be organised so that each hectare is sown, not that we pay flour with gold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189008	Thank you, time. Mr. Bull, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189009	Thank you very much. If any of the mayors of the municipality or mayor is holding back the division of land, i.e. That he does not respect the program which was assigned to him, so here we will give every chance to the Ministry of Agriculture to share land with people who want to deal with agriculture and who are engaged in agriculture. I'll give it to them. Here's my suggestion. What are the mayors involved for? To control the situation of the chiefs who are other political views, not to let them be given, to lobby, to give what is left out, the country to sublet for someone to get money, and the one who does not get an incentive. Croatia has never given more for incentives than it is now, and never less for agricultural production. It's so unsustainable. 400,000 hectares are currently state-owned land unprocessed under the weeds, and we import harmful GMO products that are health-damaging, and also endanger national security, we see in this first threat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189010	Mrs. Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189011	Comrade Bulj, you mentioned war profiteers all day we've been talking about it, but not to think that just within the health system those who should supply it are doing the problem, I'll just mention that they're doing it now and the banks. Like what? You have a bank that's known here to collect out of 1.4 a payment receipt from 0.70 to 1 kuna, collects an e-mail payment order from 2.30 kuna to 2.70, and collects a deposit of cash on the counter. I can tell which bank, RBA bank, and it's on their website. So in this whole situation we expect from banks understanding because they've been making very, very good, this is their answer to this crisis, here's the problem. So it's not only the problem of those who are really going to further endanger the system by their war profiting, but other entities as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189012	It's Mrs. Strenja's time. It's time for Mr. Bull to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189013	Thank you very much. These measures had to stop the decommissioning, it had to be stopped, so it could be profit-making and bank pressures on people, but obviously we didn't make enough of these measures. I accept all measures, all of which contribute, but strong measures to ensure that the security of citizens who will stop the raids, mainly with these RBAs, the empty cooperatives, banks that function as they even paid the PR to lobby in public tenders at the Constitutional Court, speak of how these banks behave. Therefore, we must take strong measures to protect Croatian interests, national interests and every citizen. If we don't have that power now, when will we? This crisis must be a new paradigm of state governance is the current way policies have led the country to its knees, to the fact that two thirds of Croatia are empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189014	Thank you very much. And Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189015	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull. You encouraged me to replicate one important thing, food supplies are a serious thing. There in 2009, when there was a big wheat robbery when the peasants were damaged from then on, we can't really talk about an adequate supply of grain in the Republic of Croatia. Here, these days Minister Maric cried out we have food for months. Look, you can come to Slavonia now and walk under the silo, quite freely, no more pigeons on silos. 2018 We've had more cases of cattle disease since the peasants fed cattle with fresh corn. So, come to Slavonia, no more pantyhose, no more corn at all. It's serious stuff. In the Republic of that stuff, I've been saying since 2009, they haven't been solved here, and if we don't think about it in the future, then these crises that happen to us can definitely hit people, especially in the most sensitive part, and that's food for [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189016	Thank you. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189017	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, unfortunately, the truth is that the mixed silos are to the wheat grain and today we have a problem with what is behind the pork most imports of pastries, billions of kunas, these products, these grains. The Republic of Croatia is importing, and Slavonia is unprocessed. Pork, so cereal, cereal products, it's a disaster, it's a disaster. We import pomiras into the srid of the tourist season, tomatoes we import from Italy, and my Sinj field, as well as Slavonia is not watered, and Cetina goes along the srid river, the pie Cetina goes under the srid fields of Sinjski. And we're missing funds, cohesion funds, and 2020. We don't have irrigation systems, so what are the counties for, what are the ministries for, we have to go through the paradigm, so let's buy some homemade, buy some Croatian, buy some local And urgent. [[Intruder: Time, time]] [[Intruder: Time, time, time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: You were clear]] [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189018	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Grmoy has his word, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189019	Thank you, Vice President. I think colleagues have said most of what these measures are about the government and Mr. Petrov has actually expressed what our position is on this. So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Therefore, under one, tax exemption, the suspension of the payment of profit tax on companies, as well as the tax on income tax on craftsmen, the introduction of a relief for reinvested profits and the abolition of income tax on payouts, the temporary release for 2020. from paying the flat-rate income tax for renters, flat-rate tax and membership fees to tourist communities. We know that the tourism sector will be the most affected, so actually this crisis and we will have big problems and these are the measures that need to be taken urgently. Also, the reduction of other charges to entrepreneurs means that it is necessary and would like to be listened to by the Ministry of Finance, suspend mandatory membership fees and compensations to the HGK and HTZ, expand the possibility of paying VAT for all entrepreneurs, regardless of the amount of their income, free entrepreneurs and we think that this is the key, from paying contributions in 2020. So, if we just go into payment delays, it will welcome all our craftsmen, all entrepreneurs, everyone who deals at all times in the Republic, and we know how much they are affected and actually that they can't make any profit now, I can't afford those funds that would delay it, or whatever comes to them with a delay. It is also necessary to preserve jobs, the prime minister said in his speech and to encourage employment. So covered sickness costs in full pay, extended birth leave from 6 to 12 months with the right to pay full salary, extension of “permanent seasonal” rights also from 6 to 12 months, encourage work through a flat-rate craft and introduce fees and support for reduced working hours. We consider these measures necessary. We also see a great opportunity in using European measures to help the economy. It means making better use of the European Cohesion Funds, especially those for agriculture and infrastructure projects, of the announced measures from the European Social Fund and the European Solidarity Fund. And what I was in the replica, it was one of the first replicas, the first one was given by my colleague Bulj, and then I had towards the prime minister, to cut budget expenditures. I see after my question, the prime minister gave up buying these 260 or as many cars as it was, this guy realized that it's just not the time. I suppose he will go in that direction, but not now because it would be a huge reputation damage for this government, but reduce all non-critical public procurement, reduce material expenditure at all levels of the budget, control the pay mass in the public sector. So all that money, some colleagues here said that we should be cut into politicians, if we need to cut them both here and all that money into the economy. It's the only way to save this Croatian economy. These measures here that the government has proposed, we will support them, we will also give certain amendments, we cannot give a lot of amendments, because simple amendments can only be given to what is changing, but we will give our proposals, we may refer these days and certain legislative proposals, and everything the Government proposes we will support. We have shown ourselves to be very constructive in this situation, we have agreed to a united debate, this law was passed this morning without any debate, although it is so much questionable, we must be aware that a lot of constitutional rights are limited by the fact that we have given such powers to the headquarters of civil protection, from freedom of movement, the gathering of freedom of work, the right to entrepreneurship and all that is guaranteed by the Croatian Constitution. I hope that by ruling those powers will not be misused. I also hope that you will not go into the suspension of the work of the Croatian Parliament, the Parliament can sit without a problem. We have a situation in other European parliaments where we even have diseased from the crown of the virus, so then we have some voting methods special, here I suggest that club presidents can agree and then that club presidents actually vote here when voting on behalf of all MPs or find some modality, but that simply Parliament must continue to work. We see that there is a tendency to go into the shut-down of the Parliament and that actually the government and headquarters are taking over all the powers in the state. That's not a good way to go, I hope a colleague from the SDP doesn't agree. We must seek the modality of the work of the Croatian Parliament, but we must not allow that in this crisis situation, here is my colleague Bulj said that this is a war situation, the prime minister is talking about the state of war, but the Croatian Parliament should not stop sitting. So here I have reiterated the measures of MOST, concrete solutions to this situation, we hope that by ruling if they are not already part of these measures they will accept because it will be necessary for sure. This is not enough what the Government has proposed, we are at our disposal and as a political party with all the capacities we have here in the Croatian Parliament, but also at the level of the state, all our offices in all cities, we have employed all our people and made available to the National Staff, volunteers, colleagues Bulj commended the fan groups, but our volunteers, MOST volunteers throughout Croatia are already helping the needy and the elderly, and in this sense we will continue to act in this crisis situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189020	Thank you very much. We have replicas, Mrs. Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189021	Thank you. In this situation, it is relevant, credible and transparent reporting, and we ourselves commended the way the National Crisis Centre communicates, but we must not forget that it is transmitted by the media and that the media are also key at the moment. So what we didn't notice in the government's measures, it's that other than everyone they've been thinking about, they're not thinking about free journalists, about those who might as well be after the last crisis when 53% of them are out of their jobs, about measures that could possibly be directed towards them. The open letter was sent by the Croatian Journalist Society and the Croatian Journalists' Union, and I also consider this aspect to be considered, to see how they are exposed to circulation among all the people who are potentially infected, until they have to keep their jobs and have bread for the times to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189022	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189023	No, Mr. Grmoya will still answer this time. So, Strenja colleagues, I agree, there is no interest in Croatia that will not be affected by this crisis, and definitely in this sense it is necessary and the government should respond to all these challenges and see how all people in Croatia are protected. I think these measures that we have proposed are also going in this direction, as well as the crafts, the co-eds, and thus free journalists. So we've given concrete solutions, we've gathered an expert team, and I think if the government has the will and the hearing can respond, if not with our solutions, then they're going to make some suggestions, and we're certainly going to support anything that goes in favor of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189024	Thank you very much. Mr. Dobrović, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189025	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of the Grmoys. You mentioned a series of quality measures that could certainly strengthen our economy in the fight against this global crisis. However, there is one specific our home which would be very important you missed out on her now, which is excluding clientele from public money management. Namely, I will remind you that Croatia has big public money for certain infrastructure procedures, European and domestic. For example, it is interesting to give an example of the waste management center Lučino distance near Dubrovnik worth half a billion kuna. A solution that is so much better than that costs 10 times less.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189026	Time. Thank you, Mr. Dobrović. Mr. Grmoya, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189027	So, I didn't mention Dobrovic, of course, and I couldn't mention it all, but I said that we should go into cutting public spending, and in particular we should go to cutting this clientele as you called it, and it could be called a lot of difficult words that public money, the money of our counties, the state's money throws into megalomanical unnecessary projects, and we have a system of sustainable waste management where we can make money or we can turn waste into raw materials, and we can't decide on garbage, to burn garbage, to destroy our environment, and for these expensive projects where mayors share money, but unfortunately it's a picture and opportunity for these in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189028	Thank you very much. And Mr. Bulj has a replica of a member of his club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189029	Thank you very much. My colleague Grumo, this threat that is ahead of us, the coronary virus tells us that simply in Croatia, especially in Croatia, and so in all the world, but Croatia is a specific person, that we have given a number of measures that you have listed, I have personally given today a measure to facilitate agricultural land in an emergency procedure with the signature of these fellow MPs that I thank. We must call for solidarity here, we must call for unity and ruling and opposition, all citizens, but we are all in the same problem. But when I hear from my Dalmatia cry out I can read it, dearly asked the Lord of Government what to do about us who are employed in the hospitality of the two of us in the family, ask them how we, how will our entrepreneurs, pay us if there is no It's work. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] That's the key question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189030	Time, thank you. And now he will speak, answer Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189031	Thank you, Vice President. Coli Bulj, there are a lot of questions coming from concerned citizens, sent to me by people who are blocked, afraid of what will happen, whether this crisis will survive, what will happen, whether the quarantine of this one will be declared, but I think it is now this opportunity and have spoken to others before you, in fact to apply what you have been saying here in the Croatian Parliament for four years, which is self-sufficiency, turning to our agriculture you have spoken of so many times, the prime minister here insulted you when you have warned about the problems of Croatian villages, and now we see that he is talking about changing the paradigm. I think you'd be much more pleased if Croatia had implemented such policies without you being right in the end. You are finally right, but Croatia is unfortunately in a very difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189032	Thank you, too. And now Mr. Dobrović has his 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189033	Thank you very much. Therefore, a set of measures to mitigate the difficult economic situation that is expected after the pandemic of the coronary virus has largely been given a lot of praise or approval, but it is very important not to stop there, it is very important not to stop there and not to continue to look at things and solutions in a way that are not exclusively individual sectoral measures as they are now finally shown. I will set an example here, for example, of food, especially of which there has been a lot of talk. Is now not the right opportunity for Croatian agriculture to move out of this unusual situation for decades, to import, to have no self-sufficiency of food production, that it is practically below 50%. In fact, the situation is even worse because Croatia imports, exports of agricultural products mostly of a higher quality, and imports of more unquality food that is placed very successfully across extended shopping centres where people are exposed to goods, feed unverified qualities, unconfirmed composition, of course all inspections, I do not say that it is an incorrect food, however, the quality of food produced in Croatia is certainly far more quality than the one imported and bought by our citizens and fed with. And here we have one great untapped opportunity, and it may be a good time to step aside now and make all the production, not only of this existing but also of the one that might be able to bring us to Croatian shelves and bring our citizens closer. Also introduce quality monitoring i.e. Discovering these valuable properties of our healthy food because it is not all about the price. If we are able to introduce food labelling in terms of quality, these are a variety of nutritional properties that are certainly possible to be specified, however, there is also the content of various contaminants, so it is known that all the substances with which they are protected, so all the chemicals used to lag behind in that food and they are consumed. There are also polluted soils, there's a polluted atmosphere that also pollutes food. Our food, our milk, our butter, so especially these fatty substances where these various organic contaminants are usually more quality and cleaner, and if our citizens didn't know it, they don't know it well enough and it would have to be, to become a quality parameter that greatly affects food. Because I think we're all ready for food to extract something more if we knew it was a neat and healthy food that was produced, especially the ecological one where there was enormous potential. In this respect, there are also recommendations from the Croatian Agricultural Chambers and various associations that exist and quite certain that the Government and our Ministry know that, and I would be very happy and many citizens to consider them and that the policy towards agriculture, according to producers from the foundations, is changing and ultimately taking advantage of this opportunity and from the trouble we create an opportunity in the agriculture sector. Another interesting segment is energy, namely the big opportunity to achieve synergy effects and connect the sector. If today we have a wood processing sector that is on its knees because of the loggia or the weak winter, they have failed to place everything they have produced, and on the other hand we have our energy sector, which in its energy mix or mix, contains and coal that we import from largely distant Colombia as far as I know, and if there is a technical solution that a part of this energy that is driven from distant coal is substituted with wood mass, then I do not see why a country sovereign that leads systematically and modernly its policy would not reach for the measure to connect two sectors with one virtually save a difficult economic situation, and that the other sector is practically without a lot of trouble, nor is it such a threat to the price. Of course it will be said so the energy of coal is at least twice as cheap per unit of energy compared to bio mass and that is accuracy in strictly economic terms. However, we need to know that there are external costs, there are hidden costs, there are hidden benefits, there are benefites that try to engage in the calculation, so that climate neutral bio mass certainly has its place in energy and would not be a problem too great because Croatia imports over 500,000 tonnes of coal, so only 5% of substitution can solve the problem here. So connecting the sector brings great benefits and saving many jobs. And in the end, what I mentioned in the replica of Agent Grumoja, clientele. We have infrastructure facilities, we have big money at our disposal in the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion, and as it is known to have priority building centres like Luc's distance whose contract has been signed recently. So half a billion kuna value center at 400 metres above sea level in the wild where there is no water, no electricity, no roads to build, knowing that there is at least 10 times the cheaper alternative to achieving the objectives then this means that the system and these investments are run by a clientele that cares about its interests because these are not the interests of national, citizens' interests because an alternative that would mean building a compost that would mean a reuse centre, a sorting plant that can ultimately be significantly closer to having more favourable effects on pollution, greenhouse gases and the economy of the system. And in this segment, therefore, the detachment of the leading clientele, not only in the waste management sector but also in some others, there is a huge space for public money to be used by European money, which is a national way to achieve significantly better effects. Because a network of composts and composts across Croatia with which 700,000 tonnes of decomposable waste would be converted into at least 300,000 tonnes of composts of value compost as produced in Prelog or Krk which has great properties, it would be useful for each agricultural production to mean a lot of good in the agriculture sector or in food production. Yes, therefore, these measures that we have had today will be very little to hear if they are not subject to concrete objectives in certain sectors and, of course, to the deviation from clients, which unfortunately are systematically embedded in our governance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189034	Mrs. Strenja's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189035	Thank you. So in all the measures we've heard, I'd like to warn you about measures that we haven't actually heard clearly enough, which I expected, except for these economics, we'll also think about people with disabilities. So, in recent days, I have often received e-mail warnings through really different media that virtually disabled associations have been left at will, especially those who organise assistants for disabled people, that these personal assistants do not go to their homes or if it is possible to organise themselves in any other way. We did not come out clearly enough with measures to ensure and capacitate them, we did not even provide children who are 100% disabled, and parents have work obligations and such things, so I expect the minister to cover and solve the segment. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189036	Time. Thank you very much. Mr. Dobrović, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189037	I agree, therefore, that the problems and sectors are very much, it is very important that they are all addressed in quality. Therefore, each minister in his area must know exactly what to do and, of course, must respect the profession previously and those solutions must, of course, be relevant to the spread of the infection or infection, and must also be reasonable regarding all activities and services that must take place. It is similar with drivers, so it is amazing that our manufacturers who export goods when their drivers return with goods delivered to Croatia they have to go into quarantine for two weeks instead of being allowed to carry out a new, new boot drive, so goods in, according to Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189038	Mr. Sagar's second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189039	Dear colleague Dobrović, we can observe in two ways. Or the common agricultural policy Europe is pushing us to, in fact, pay us not to produce enough food. Or we got it all wrong, so the green payments that are given for so-called. Eco-surfaces, we understand in a way that we boast of the constant quantity, so the amount of surfaces that are under eco-plants, and we ignore the fact that food is produced on these surfaces. And the other problem is, let's say, the problem with the garage. We had, I think it's 2017. 30,000 acres of land under the garland, and that's what you get a boost for. Finally, the common agricultural policy that is just leading to the sustainability of the village as the production of safe and affordable food because in our whole, completely and vice versa, the reverse goals achieve and exactly what you are saying, instead of having more and more food, we are producing less and less food, and I say, we can accuse Europe of paying us, without producing us, but I think the problem is deeper and the problem is with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189040	Thank you very much. Mr. Dobrović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189041	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sagar, I agree. A strategy and policy-making cannot be attributed. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia did not prove to be a capable ruler or master of its agricultural policy and instead of going to watch what its comparative advantages are, where the chances are, it simply takes over the policies as it is led somewhere and feels there is nothing to be done. So we absolutely need to change our position in which the Croatian village is actually in a bad position where when they produce something is not safe for placement and sale, and we see that the overall result is defeated, and that is a very low self-sufficiency of production.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189042	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Peja Grbin's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189043	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm going to talk about a few proposed legislative proposals, talk about the measures that the government has proposed, but also about the things that are not here, and I think they should be introduced. So I would start with the measures introduced primarily by the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, but also by other amendments to the tax laws that we are discussing today, which we will believe by a very, very broad consensus tomorrow and adopt. By that law, laws are given broad powers to the government, extremely broad. Under normal circumstances of powers that would violate the trio of authorities, not in exceptional circumstances. Let me explain. The law on the implementation of the state budget will allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to redistribute all money within the framework of the state budget, including on items not foreseen by the state budget without restrictions. The formation of a state budget is one of the fundamental powers of the legislative authority. That is why we of the SDP have proposed one amendment and one conclusion that we hope you will accept and support. First, it is an amendment to the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2020. which we propose to inform the Committee on Finance every two weeks about the redistributions that the Government will make on the basis of amendments to that law. In the Committee on Finance, among other things, and two former finance ministers, I think it would be logical to report to the Finance Committee, thus ensuring the necessary parliamentary control at a time of crisis, but on the other hand, the government will not block itself from taking the necessary measures. We have referred the same proposal in the form of a conclusion, and it concerns this series of tax laws that the Government will also adopt regulations and broad measures, we propose that every two weeks the measures carried out be notified to the HS Committee to ensure also parliamentary supervision, but also the need for public information on everything that the Government is doing. I believe that you will accept this, we believe that this is a reasonable and necessary measure which, I say once again, and in times of crisis, will provide parliamentary supervision, and without the suspension of the work of the executive authority. Second, the second proposal I would refer to concerns the judiciary sector, and I will ask the Honorable State Secretary to respect it with the Minister of Justice. The European Court of Human Rights suspended deadlines Monday for a month in proceedings pending before the court. Therefore, in order to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, there is a certain pre-inclusive deadline which, if a party is violated, loses the right to appeal to that court. However, while respecting the situation in which the entire Europe is located, the European Court of Human Rights decided on Monday to suspend the passage of these deadlines for a month. Given that already several thousand today, it seems to me that some 9,000 of our citizens have been told today are in isolation, that it is to assume that at least some of them are in the lead and judicial proceedings, that this isolation will be tightened, that the possibility of access to the court, as well as to lawyers who would represent citizens in certain procedures in the next few days will become more difficult, I suggest that we consider such a measure at the level of the Republic of Croatia. If you look at the measures proposed by the Government, measure 9 relating to the "stand still" executive procedures launched by the banks is actually one step towards what we are proposing. I therefore give the initiative that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already sent these measures to the economy for the next week, to amend the Law on Courts and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in order to create legal assumptions that the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court will make a decision to extend the deadlines. I'll remind you, the outdated course, the deadlines for filing complaints are ongoing, the deadlines for initiating court proceedings are ongoing, and the citizens will find themselves in a situation where they can't be respected because they simply won't be able to approach any court, or lawyers. These situations may not be as important as those discussed today, but they are especially important for those in need of judicial action. Let us postpone, as did the European Court of Human Rights on Monday for the start of a month, and then we will see if the situation worsens if the delay is extended. And the last thing is about the content of these measures, my colleagues have already talked about it before me, but I find it important to repeat it. Many tax solutions provide for a delay, but I will talk about one specific case, here I look at my colleague from Istria Kleman on purpose because he may understand me best here, it is the problem of small tenants or housing in the household. As we know, they pay both the flat-rate fee and the income tax, but see the income this year as things stand will not be. Since the flat-rate is paid in certain segments three months, I suggest that the measure to postpone accommodation in the household be converted into a write-off measure. For the start of one war that applies to a third, and then if this situation lasts and the next wars, because if we only give a delay, and there are no guests how our tenants will pay for it, and we already know that the first half is over. There is no Easter, it is hard to expect guests to come during May and it is clear that those revenues from which these fees should be paid simply will not come. The second thing, the measures are primarily directed towards the economy, I mentioned measure 9 from those government proposals that refer to stand still, but stand still refers only to the handling of forced collection procedures. I think it is time to seriously consider one decision that the Parliament would make, and if necessary, to avoid any proceedings before the Constitutional Court, may be a constitutional law which, during the duration of this extraordinary situation, will stop the flow of interest on the obligations of Croatian citizens from the epidemic of the coronary virus. So the obligations will not stop, the obligations will not be cancelled, only during which many citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia will not be able to pay interest and nothing more will I suggest at this time, but I don't think that anything less than that should even be considered. And the last thing I'm going to stop with is actually caused by images that I've had a chance to see in Croatian media today, which are numerous citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are waiting in line outside the Employment Service. Except in a terrible situation that in a time of crisis like this, they were left out of work, they were forced to stand in ranks which, as we know, are especially suitable for the spread of each epidemic and so on. I therefore appeal to the Honorable Mr. Secretary of State and the entire Government to ensure as soon as possible the conditions for citizens to exercise their rights without waiting in such lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189044	Mr. Vlaovic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189045	Thank you very much. Dear Grbin, you have well mentioned that tourism and tourist workers and tenants will be the first to suffer and already suffer damages because the guests are gone, orders have been cancelled until the end of June, July and surely more specific models need to help these tenants and I agree with you that it will also be a write-off of this first quarter of the first round, and think about it for the second because by the 6th month we know that there will be no guests. And here I would mention the problem of tourist guides, and they are mostly organized by various organizational forms, most of them are either craftsmen or flatulents and the like. They also don't have jobs now, they can't pay taxes or contributions, they don't have salaries, and we haven't heard in these proposed measures that they've been taken care of because there's a significant number of them who have made their income that way, and I suggest that these groups of people be included in measures to help them save their jobs and secure income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189046	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189047	Thank you. Dear colleague. I have, of course, limited myself to that sector which, among other things, is because of the area from which I come close, but of course there are tourist guides as well as many other professions of crafts, etc. Although they are covered by certain measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia predicted. What I still miss here, but I am comforted by the announcement by the Prime Minister that this is not the end but only the beginning of measures that will protect the economy and the status of our citizens affected by this crisis is the fact that many other countries last week were more radical and determined in their first step. But for now we're going to do this, and then we're going to have not much, but we're going to have at least a little time to prepare a second step that should come as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189048	Time. Mr. Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow coat of arms, to agree with you that you should think about it and write-off. For now, as we have come to appreciate these measures that I must say, I welcome as such, that we hope that this will not be the end of the whole story but that it is the first step. Today, we also discussed this on the Committee on Tourism and on the Committee on Finance, and we were assured that the results of these measures will be monitored and that both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Tourism will take further steps. If necessary, I am convinced that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will also have an understanding of the small tenants, of the caterers and of all those needs found themselves in difficult situations, that they will follow the measures of the request.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189050	Mr. Grbin's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189051	Thank you, dear colleague. So I share with you this, let's call it moderate optimism because he is, because everything that you and I have talked about in this sector is particularly important. We know that many families in the Republic of Croatia depend on housing for their existence. We also know that this is not good and that it would be much, much better if accommodation in the household was just an additional income. But we're aware that's just not the way it is. We need to help these families in these moments, the more many of them, many of them up to their throats in loans. So if we don't make that other measure that I was talking about, which is a moratorium on interest, these people will be buried that, not that they won't be able to dig up, but when the state has to help them, it'll be much more expensive. It's this now. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189052	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189053	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. And I would be involved in this debate with a few of my thoughts, and at the beginning I stress that these proposed measures of the Croatian Government are indeed the first start-up package that will have to be continuously upgraded because it will require daily life situations. Therefore, although we are already hearing cries from the field that these measures will not be enough, at this point we do not really have anything else to support them, but at the same time ask the Croatian Government for a proactive action to be ready at any moment to react to concrete moves that will preserve both jobs and business of all business entities in the Republic. Of course, I expect local self-government units to do the same. Here I come from Rijeka, Rijeka has already made a decision on a package of measures that will help entrepreneurs survive this difficult situation, and together with the Red Cross actively participates in the supply of food, medicines and everything that is needed by the elderly over 65. What is most important is that all decisions made by the Government are timely, effective and transparent, this is crucial. I'll repeat, timely, effective and transparent. In this direction, the SDP proposal on budget implementation and redistribution will also go hand in hand, as well as the criteria for these redistributions to be reported by the Financial Committee. And I would add here, given that a significant part of this package and budget redistribution concerns health care, and the Health Committee. I also ask that measures and moves be immediately communicated to all workers who have already lost their jobs and sent to HZZ. A few of them yesterday, I talked to them and really people are desperate. Therefore, although this package represents measures to preserve the health of the economy, it is of course aimed at maintaining and functioning the health and health system of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I remind you that our system of health in 2019 ended with huge debts and that, thanks to the former minister, he was brought to the brink of bankruptcy. I point out that none of this has changed. So, all these problems are still present, they're just now in the shadow of a huge crisis that's caused by the coronary virus. Therefore, it is very important, Prime Minister Plenkovic stressed this today, but it seems to me not loud enough, that the means for the functioning of health care will be provided as much as necessary. However, he did not actually mention how much funds would be provided for healthcare in the list of the 30 billion kuna. I understand that this is difficult to assess, but I would like to hear what the assessment of the necessary means is, not only to combat the coronaryvirus but to have health function in general, because we must be aware that, with the coronaryvirus, the citizens of the Republic still suffer from all those diseases that they have suffered for the past 20 years. and that the treatment of these diseases must not be questioned. So, I expect, and that is what I said today and at a meeting with the Minister of Health that the Health Committee is regularly reporting on all actions concerning the treatment of the health system. Also seen from this crisis is that it is one of the strongest foundations of Croatian society, public health. Public health must be solidarity, comprehensive and accessible to all equally easily and quickly. So this crisis should be used as an additional motive to strengthen public health because in the past we have witnessed absolutely opposite moves and thinking and that the health care system finally becomes fiscally sustainable. Therefore, at the same time as this battle with the coronaryvirus takes place, I expect the Ministry of Health and Professional Services to bring concrete plans to manage human resources that will ensure that their work and training are adequately evaluated, both by the doctor and the nurses, and from those from the SSS to the first graders and magistrates of the sorority, but also by all other health employees. We see on this example how important medical laboratory diagnostics are, and I expect Minister Beros to urgently suspend the discrimination of medical laboratory diagnostics magistrates and enable them with a constitution guaranteed the right to work in accordance with their university education. Also colleagues and colleagues, we are witnessing how important this crisis with the coronaryvirus has shown health and media literacy. So citizens need to know the false news, follow the real information based on expertise and science. So this is also an opportunity to show once again how important it is for our children from kindergarten to have quality education and education for health, but also for civil society and democracy. All of this will help us to come out of this pandemic as a better, healthier society, as better citizens aware of our personal responsibilities for health and responsibility for the health of everyone around us. Therefore, there is the old "What doesn't kill you, it strengthens you", so I hope that we will be such as to come out of this crisis as a better, more organised and healthier society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189054	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras' turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189055	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected by our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who are currently looking at us in the transfer, there are a few things I would like to say at the very beginning of my debate and they are related to the current situation. Like many of these days and I know that there are many pensioners at home, people of older age with chronic diseases, please don't go out, listen to the recommendations of epidemiologists, I think it's important at this point that we all get together, listen to each other, help each other out, that what's happening around the world right now with as little problems as possible, and in some ways with fewer accidents, scars, negative things that are happening to us tomorrow, I would say in a better position to continue with normal life. So it's important that you take care of yourself and the people around you. On the other hand, I'd like to thank all those who are working hard right now and there are a lot of them. If I didn't list the sectors now, it's not just health care professionals, those who allow the state to function normally, that it's safe, that we trust that we will go through this crisis as a state as a society with as little consequences as possible. Of course, we are most grateful to health care professionals, hospital workers who do huge work, not thinking about themselves, but citizens, and in some way in their oath that they made at the beginning that they would take care of our fellow citizens, that they would treat them and try to do anything to tell again this crisis that is huge, which has hit us, passed with as few problems as possible. As for the crisis, it is my impression, as far as the healthcare parties are concerned, I think that the state is doing what it can, that we have solid foundations primarily in people who work in that system, that we trust them, in civil protection we also have confidence, in all those who are doing this hard work now, so I think that on the other hand, about the economic measures and what we have refused to discuss today, which I think we should all support because these are all measures that can help someone but it seems that there are a lot of measures and that there are still a lot of unknown about these measures that they and how they will act on companies and our fellow citizens. So when we strip everything, when we put aside health risks and illnesses, I say that I have full confidence in our health system right now and I listen and I try or I adhere to all those measures that the health system gives, so on the other hand, I think that the economy or only the crisis behind this, the economics deserve a little more activity, a little more messages from the state to get through that part with as little damage as possible. So if we're talking about at this point that there are companies that are out of work overnight and not a small company, that means about right now, over 100,000 of our citizens are left without their monthly incomes because of what the companies have stopped doing. Then it must be clear that no delay, no suspension of the tax and the company's contributions will save them because they neither have any income. Nor can they pay their workers' wages. When we look at small craftsmen, entrepreneurs who are 100,000 at this point, who don't know if they're going to open the place at all tomorrow, and if they open up, how much traffic they're going to be, they're hairdressers, they're bars, it's hospitality, that's all we're saying in some way what's in contact with our citizens every day, from tomorrow very likely, today they might have traffic 20, 30% and from tomorrow if they get tough, that income is going to be the same 0. And on this side, the state has to give financial assistance, it has to keep every job because if we look at Germany where the heart of industry is, so Wolkswagen and BMW from now on don't work, and the state guarantees 60% of salaries to the minimum employees and on the other hand, the company from certain profits and lending opportunities, covering just a little more than 60% of the wages that people have given to people that they don't work until the crisis is over, Croatia has to respond in the same way. It has to respond in the same way, according to tourism, to industry, to people who no longer have jobs today. The message that the minimum wage will be paid is a good start, a good start, but I think the state has to give more. I think the state must give more, I think the state must also send a clear message that no over-investment is going to go, that we will reduce public spending and on the other hand stand behind people in the economy who de facto until yesterday and today, today some companies are filling that same budget, that we will stop and that we will allow it to simply not stop and that, as counterpart Grbin said, we do not have the ranks in front of the Employment Office. On the other hand, I don't think it's necessary to prolong the companies of contributions and taxes, I think that companies in this crisis period should free up contributions and taxes, especially these companies that won't be able to work because what's the point of prolonging them so that these people won't be able to pay it for the next three, four, five months. and then release them afterwards. Public government spending should be reduced and financial support provided to companies, financial support in such a way as to guarantee for each employee a certain amount which must be higher than minimum wage. On the other hand, I think that, in parallel to that, the CNB and the Ministry of Finance should start talking to business banks about suspending credit, paying credit wars to citizens for a certain period, a moratorium in which they would possibly pay interest or a minimum amount of cost to go to banks but also to think about a moratorium to pay off loans to citizens who have lost their jobs and who are affected by the economic or financial crisis. And now we come to the local self-government unit, i.e. the local self-government unit, some like Rijeka have already brought their own measures, I think that local self-government units do not have a large financial capacity but, for example, the city of Zagreb has the opportunity to help its companies and here I will say my own position. There's no need to chase now and finish the cable, no need. If it takes 200, 300 million kunas to be separated, then I am more inclined to support micro-enterprises, craftsmen, 20 to 30,000 in the city of Zagreb and to give them within 30 days, while it will be clearly temporary ban to give them aid of 10 000 kuna. It's a much better quality help for people to survive that period until they start working again normally than to rush and chase with the end of the trachea on Sljemen which is btw. We all know how much it costs. So, on the other hand, the release of the municipal fee should be 100% for companies that don't work, 30% can be a reduction for companies that work. It's what I see suggested by the mayor tomorrow at the assembly. I think you should release 100% of the utility fees of the company, the hairdressers, the craftsmen, the caterers that don't work. I don't see the sense that they're paying communal fees to cities until I can work. At the end of the message, it's very simple. Let's all get together, do what we can as a state, as a unit of local self-government to get through this crisis as easily as possible. And another message at the end of everyone who looks at us, respected fellow citizens, please follow the instructions of the epidemiological service so that everyone can go through this together with the least of the consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189056	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar wants to replicate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189057	Dear Representative Maras, you said we didn't know what the consequences of the government's measures would be, so we know, we saw a crowd in front of the Employment Service, we saw a panic in people who have no way to pay rent, we saw messages from employers who had to shut down their crafts or businesses. What is happening is a social disaster, of course, and an economic disaster, and the government unfortunately doesn't understand what's happening at all, nor does the government actually care. I called on Prime Minister Plenkovic to, as an act of solidarity with other citizens, help them out more and let him cut our salaries in the Parliament and reduce salaries in the government, but he tells me Mr Plenkovic that I am a demagogue and he is so serious. We'll see when this goes through who was serious and who was demagogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189058	Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189059	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, I will now surprise you with my answer. I think the government cares. Every normal citizen of our country is concerned at the moment that the situation will take place and I believe fully and that Prime Minister Plenkovic cares and that the ministers working on this problem is concerned, that the whole crisis will go away with as little damage and as little consequences as possible. And on that side we are the opposition, we cannot manage this crisis, we have our own ideas but we will help as much as we can. Some of these measures may not be perfect, but we will support them all in order to jointly try to enable our fellow citizens to go through this crisis with as little consequences as possible and not to be clear and politicised on this subject, but we all need to get together and try to do what we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189060	Thank you. Mr. Welligaj now has his individual discussion, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189061	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I will welcome, in my own name, these measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course I will say that we are all here in the opposition to be a little bit more, to be a little more expensive, but here is the moment when we can't think about any common economic categories, we can't just think about what our current options are but we need to get out of these frameworks because the obligation of the state and the obligation of the state is not just an anthem, the coat of arms and football team, but the state has to show one responsibility and it's the obligation of the state to intervene in this situation because it is primarily because of it and it exists, so we need to go beyond the possibilities that it currently has. One clear stimulant should be given to an economy that cannot be aware exclusively of these delays but should also consider some one-time support for those sectors of the economy that are most at risk, they are not equally threatened in all parts of Croatia. I come, for example, from Krapina-Zagorje County, with us developed with the industry that is developed, which needs first aid, production of development, let's say, an extremely strong transport sector, they also suffer huge losses today and we know how much we need at this point. Thank you all here for the drivers who are somewhere on the road today and that allow us to have as much normal supply as possible today in our mixed-food stores, with medicines, with everything else that is necessary. Of course, the greatest thanks goes to health care professionals who need to be given a special confession, workers in the Red Cross who work tirelessly and visit our elderly fellow citizens, cashiers, cleaning women, etc. She has shown this crisis in fact and shows that tourism can't be something that we can only base on, that's quite clear. But whoever, and every crisis, I believe this one has a certain opportunity, an opportunity for those who are told today. To strengthen the food industry, the wood industry, all of which, unfortunately, in the past 30 years has been well devastated. What I think should be added urgently by measures, it is certainly to allow one parent a paid vacation, here I will welcome here and a measure of HZZ, I think from today di allows a lot of paid sick leave, that is something that is certainly good but I think this should also be secured, an annual vacation for parents and not that it goes to the burden of employers, whether they are in the public or in the private sector. Consider also that what is here is numerous of my fellow citizens, not only fellow citizens but also people from my constituency, from Krapina-Zagorje County, warned that certain employers are now sending them on vacations, we must keep some kind of humanity in this situation and watch that even though these annual vacations are somehow refunding to employers rather than sending them because they may be the ones who will save as much power as the tourist season in the future. Here's since I'm the head of local self-government, I'll just say that and I believe there's no leader of local self-government who wouldn't give a maximum that can out of his budget, but here we must also be, the emphasis needs one thing. That the financial situation, the fiscal capacity of local units at Croatia level is very different, the original walkways differ, and that is why I believe that this is not the time to share. Some local units may provide a very large package of assistance to their citizens and the economy, some others will not be able to do so without actually going to some big minuses. That's why I'm calling here and the government to look at the bigger picture too, not to get into a situation where parents might have to pay for kindergarten when he doesn't work. For example, with me in the town of Pregrad, of course it won't be necessary, but I also know local units that are weaker in fiscal capacity and may not be able to do so now and in the implementation of some large EU projects, etc., to be freeing us from municipal compensation also in some equal gauges and not just because of the fact that they live in a certain part of Croatia that there are some opportunities for local units to be financially greater that he has certain privileges. This is not the time, this is not the time for this and I believe that in the government they are aware of what regional differences are today primarily at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia. Of course, first we must have security, then rescue jobs, but don't hesitate through this until the end of the local budget because the crisis will go away, it will have a big impact on people's psyche, and then we'll need social life in our small environments, we'll need cultures, we'll need sports, and it's not in smaller environments, it's not without our associations, it's not without our institutions, etc., they'll have a big role to normalize this life and it won't be so easy to normalize after what we're witnessing today. To end the messages one, we need more solidarity, of course, we need to send one message here and optimism. Some humanity, I will say from this crisis and profites, we have some great examples of helping older people, we have seen in Italy that there are Chinese doctors coming, there are Cuban doctors coming, we learn something from it, from the crisis, we have one universal, common enemy and I believe that by common forces we can also defeat it, here our health system has proved to be a very tough health system of championship thanks to people and let us always be human in all these measures. All measures must be man first, and only then do we think about everything else. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189062	Mr. Maras, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189063	Thank you very much, my fellow Vesligaj, for your really emotional debate, I think it is important that we point out that people are in the first place and on that side I think it would be a good idea for all of us here today to have clear support for our health system, according to the measures that we support today, that the government hears, too, there would be no bad proposals of the opposition and to accept some suggestions of the opposition, that would be me thinking one very good message to our fellow citizens to see that we are all together in this together and that we will go through this together. For example, my proposal would be to the Government if the Secretary of State listens, and it is likely to listen will write that during the crisis all entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia will be free from payment of contributions to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Here's my suggestion, what I see is that the government hasn't noticed, I believe it's a failure, but I believe that this will be transmitted by a fellow secretary of state and that this type of contribution is not needed in times of crisis, I think that the state must provide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189064	Thank you. Mr. Vesligai, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189065	Thank you. So here I believe that the government is really going to accept these proposals that we're going to send, first through the amendments, it would be one thing I think is a big message to step down from that usual practice, which is to reject all the opposition proposals. So this is the time when if we all put our heads together, the head set to tell me in Zagorje, then I'm sure that something good and quality can come from this side of the assembly that can improve these measures. There have been other laws of good and constructive proposals, and I know that some colleagues are when and in informal contacts to tell everyone, so it's okay and it hasn't passed, but right now it's really not time to collect some cheap political points, but it's time for us to work on as high-quality measures and as high-quality legislative proposals as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189066	Thank you very much. Mrs Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189067	You said something about the effects of this crisis on the budget of the units of local self-government, what I would add is that the compensatory measures proposed by the government will not allow the breathing of local self-government units because we will not be left with the lack of income tax income, we will only borrow money that we have to pay back. And where will we get it back if our entrepreneurs, if our people, will not work? As a result, those delays in all payments are not actually sufficient measures, but it is really necessary to describe such charges as did the UK for 12 months on profit tax. As is the scene in front of the Employment Service today, we also expect scenes in front of local self-government units because we are the first door to citizens who talk to them when they find it difficult. We'll try to help, but I'm not sure if the government will help us to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189068	Mr. Vesligai, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189069	So here we all know that Croatia is a highly centralised country, that most of the revenues are in the state budget and this is now actually the time for the government to show responsibility. If the country has been centralised for years primarily then local self-government today cannot bear the excessive financial burden of this crisis. I have said before, I believe that every local leader must be solid and should do as much as possible in this situation and provide certain means to save jobs, ensure of course that all institutions function, that the communal system works, all that is required by the unit of local self-government. However, we all know how these funds are allocated, we all know how many times we've reduced the rates relating to income tax, how many times we've increased that tax base, unfortunately today we have the resources we have, if we go towards centralization, then the state is the most responsible... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189070	Thank you. Time. It is now up to the individual debate of Ms. Irene Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189071	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Zrinasic. I'm in office today as an on-call HDZ officer in this assembly, I guess I've studied this package of laws so well that I liked that role. As we have already heard from previous discussions today, we have an extraordinary measure, and above all we need to say a few important facts and information that may not be further highlighted. Let's just say that in Austria, for example, on Monday, and I see it now and in the media 450 companies have applied for the dismissal of part of the workers, and we know that Austria is one of the wealthier EU countries. So today we are faced with special circumstances, I'm not saying that Croatia will go in this direction or should go, nor does this package lead in that direction, exactly the opposite, but it should be aware in which direction the world and Croatia are actually globally going as EU members that this pandemic and the economic consequences of the pandemic will actually be greater than the 2008 economic crisis, and it is not excessive to say that today the world is facing the biggest crisis of the Second World War with the Corona virus. And since these special circumstances were no one could count on, no one could prepare themselves to the end and no one could predict all the scenarios, it should be said that in these circumstances Croatia is still among those countries that were better at a number of facts. 1st emergency organisation of the National Emergency Station, 2nd in preparation of the Health System for the epidemic, 3rd in the Government's reactions to the first disease and further steps in preventive action to protect human health, 4th in emergency measures to prevent major damage in the economic and health system and 5th, but not less important in the strategic reflection of further steps and mitigation of the consequences of this epidemic or pandemic. It is important to say that the Crisis Headquarters and the Government, including all individuals who work day and night, and to them special thanks for their help and organization have shown great responsibility and a good system of organisation. I am particularly speaking to a good organisation system stressing in these examples some countries, and we have neighbouring countries such as Slovenia and Italy that have not managed, let's say, did not respond adequately in time, nor did they think further steps until the end of the strategy. And the most tragic consequences that can happen, the consequences of a bad act or not, are actually tragically inconceivable or done policies that can cause death and a series of tragic deaths that are actually immeasurable to a particular country and globally. Croatia should clearly not go in this direction, nor will it go in that direction, there will be no escalation or decapitation of the system or of the health system, nor of the economic one, and it should be clearly ordered and further stressed. Today's emergency law package, which the prime minister presented here this morning in front of all of us, needs to look at a first aid kit that covers just about all sectors of the economy and all sectors of the system. In other words, there is no sector that is not covered, and that will be covered by the crisis or already covered by the crisis, so from agriculture, tourism, crafts, entrepreneurship to us citizens in private, whether we are in the capacity of employees, whether we are in the capacity of pensioners, health or credit systems. So, for each of the stakeholders, this package of measures offers a first aid kit, and now it's hard for me to talk because all the time my colleague Pernar and my colleague Bulj are talking, quite inappropriately, I keep my mouth shut and listen to others. Excuse me. Simply put, the state gives a set of first aids that should not be underestimated and is not well-innovated. The measures that cost more than 30 billion kuna, and hopefully as we hear here, we won't need the next emergency aid set, that this will be enough for us, but unfortunately no one can predict it at this time if everything goes on together then we will go on with further measures, and of course again with the same goals. From tomorrow's emergency package should therefore act in the sense that it mitigates damage and that is the basic meaning, but it should be made clear that not everything can be in government, there are many other stakeholders like employers and yet they are not all in the same position as all citizens in the same position. It's easier for some people, and it's harder for others. In particular, the large employers, and the government has also appealed to them and we appeal here in the assembly to take greater responsibility. It is therefore particularly important to commend those who have already taken action today and rewarded their employees, but unfortunately there will be those employers who will, despite the measures, fire workers and decide on this measure, unfortunately, as I said at the outset and should say that the government will compensate as much as it can in the economic sector, but should know that there are special circumstances, they will last for months and should in some way appeal to the reprogramming of the awareness of those employers who remain exclusively profit and profit base and sole goal. Because no matter how rough it sounds now that some will still want to make extra money in the crisis, some will want to make extra money. And it should be said that, of course, the role of the government is important here, but it is also important that the smaller set and the reprogramming of employers' minds, because if one employer can reward additional employees for additional work, then it is not necessary for others to quit. There are other measures that the government has presented today. So, the goal of these headquarters measures is primarily to keep people from being fired, to preserve jobs, but also to help everyone who is on the other hand, so entrepreneurs don't literally fail. Help craftsmen as well, and as much as it is possible to mitigate the damage just literally for all of us, regardless of our current status and position on the labour market, either personally. It is important to preserve and economic, it is important to preserve both the health system and, in particular, our citizens personally and our families, regardless of what part of Croatia they were in, in which part of Croatia we lived, which we are professionally, where we work or whether we are employed or unemployed. In this sense, this package of emergency measures has a total value of more than 30 million, billions, billions of kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189072	Thank you, too. Mr. Pernar has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189073	Your Honor, I have a very simple question for you. Imagine that you have a company and imagine that the state forbids you to work, which is going on tomorrow, so you can't stop working, you have, like, 10 employees, would you pay these employees contributions or not, or would you fire them? The fact is that the state will not pay tax and contribution costs but will only give a temporary delay, which means that when you continue to work, and you don't even know when you'll have to continue to work again in the end, you'll have to pay all that even though you haven't done all that time. The question is very simple, the question is personal because we can see how effective Plenkovic's actions are on the one hand and how honest you are on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189074	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189075	Dear fellow, the measures are effective and I am honest and do not draw attention to myself with such statements I do not know what your organisational abilities are, but this government certainly cannot object to not responding adequately, not reacting in time. It's easy today to point fingers at the government maybe something's not doing well, and today it shouldn't be done and nobody said the government's doing the wrong thing, but this government is doing very carefully, very systematically, and what you can see from the results is a little look around you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189076	Mrs. Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189077	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague said there are no sectors, no activities that are not covered by measures, but we have heard from my colleague Strenja today, I will repeat there is one, at least one sector that is not covered, that is the media sector, that is, journalists and the Croatian Journalist Society. The journalist's union warned that the culture ministry is unfortunately not in its own measures that are too small and too general, so it put no aid to the media sector. We already know, therefore, that there has been a discharge, especially by free journalists, freelancers so-called, part-time associates, and it is certain that there will be even more, so the media sector has also suffered in that major crisis, economic and financial 2008, only slowly recovered, if it recovers, many journalists have been fired, some have never returned, so it is not true that all sectors in these first measures are covered. So we hope that the Ministry of Culture will after today the hearings, however, are heard; and [[Intruder: Thank you]] So, our suggestions on that. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189078	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189079	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Today, Minister Obuljen was on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and was asked by me and some other colleagues. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although my colleague Jovanovic was, but he was a little late, so he didn't hear and I can tell you that in this first package of emergency measures he wasn't covered, that's true, which doesn't mean he won't be. I hope it will be as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189080	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debates, Mr. Bauk is on, turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189081	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As far as these measures are concerned, it's very simple to describe them. The government is looking for space, buying time to come up with something that will try to further mitigate what is happening because neither she nor we know how long it will last and what exactly consequences it will have. Most of these laws are actually allowing government members to, by means of intervention measures through the Regulations, try to solve certain things. And the prime minister announced that we might be discussing again soon, I hope that we will have to discuss an additional package, and in that sense this is one, one of the bianco bonds that we also give from the opposition to the government because we will have to vote for these laws, not because they are somewhat over-quality, but if we don't bring them in, it will be even worse. So that's it. Of course, they don't solve most of the problems, but we actually have to become aware of what situation we are in and what problems we can face. Prof. In the prime minister's replica this morning, he made it very clear that some of the fundamental rights that we otherwise enjoy in the normal situation have already been announced or already suspended. The right to public gathering, the right to freedom of movement, the right to exercise economic activity or the right to work in order to protect the population from the epidemic. The Constitution predicted such a situation and in fact the Constitution provided for in Article. 17. that in times and major natural disasters, which this certainly is, certain freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution may be limited, and that the scope of the restriction must be appropriate to the nature of the execution, and for the consequence cannot have an inequality of persons with respect to race, skin color, sex, language, religion, national and social origin, and that even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the state, the application of the Constitution on the right to life, prohibitions of torture, cruel or humiliating treatment, and freedom of thought, conscience and religion cannot be limited. Anything else if there's a valid reason will bring, will bring, may be questioned. Is this the situation? Maybe not today. Will it be in two months? So, if two months of this goes on, if we're a state where we're only going to be doing stores, pharmacies, where they're not going to work at school, or they're going to be working from home, where life will be completely blocked, where it won't be possible to fill the budget because, because we're either gonna postpone or forgive, and no one's going to work, then we're coming into a whole new situation. I hope we're aware of that. What we point out today as a problem, in two months we could forget. Like what happened in China a month ago, we were looking at it from some distance, like it's not going to be in ours. This story with... It's important that no one remembers that anymore. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What were we discussing here from New Year's Eve to this day? And can you imagine what we'll be discussing in two months if the epidemic control measures don't produce results? And from what will people live after those two months when they don't work, when can the state come into a kind of blockade? That's all we need to think about. And that's why I agree with those who say they might be found, and that's Mrs. A petriel said we might be in the biggest crisis after II. The world war, it will be if it lasts. So if it's over by the end of the 4th month, it won't, it'll make up for it. So, two months, and then the tourists will come to the 7th month instead of the 6th, we'll have some fall, but that fall will be, that fall will be something smaller than it would be to have this extended to, by the end of the summer and then fall 100%, because if no one can go anywhere, if the borders are closed, those who come 15 days into isolation, so when they get back to their country for another 15 days in isolation, there who's going to be on vacation, so that's what we're talking about here? Therefore, the first thing is that in these crisis situations the state must have leadership, and when I say leadership, then I think of both the President and the Government and the Assembly. And that leadership must build trust. And while that's the case, we'll avoid the blackest scenario. And all of these situations where this trust that's currently being looked at through an increase, those who have failed him, will return strictly to them negatively later on. So this car buy story probably hurt everyone who called on citizens to be patient, solidarity, to give up, and they decided to buy cars and don't, so it's not good for the country to do it that way anymore. The second about suspending the work of the assembly, so even during the time in danger of the state of freedom of mind and religion is not questionable, it is even worth in our Constitution above the state, above the existence of the state, and the Croatian Parliament is the only place that can control the government that we have given great authority to, as well. If this can't be done by the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic can, but the government without control with the maximum powers in situations of crisis has a very great potential to move into dictatorship. If this lasts 3 months, 2, 3 months and we are in danger of even having fundamental democratic values being questioned because the people will have no choice, no political choices but will have to survive, somehow, if the state is weak, if there is no opportunity to help because there is no money because no one is doing anything, and it does not work to protect ourselves, it is a vicious circle. So, for example, units of local self-government, which will operate during this period, how they will execute what they expect citizens to do. We'll discuss it, but unfortunately we can't talk about it today. And that's where I give the government one loan because she can't predict all the consequences yet. These are fire measures, but my God, if you come with a boat to the drowner first throw him a belt, he'll stay in the sea if it's a bad weather, he'll be cold but he won't drown, but he won't be able to stay in the cold sea for a long time to get him on board, and then the ship back to the mainland. And now we're in one storm that we can't even know yet, we can't even know when the storm is gonna stop and what's the best way to land, and how far the land is. I don't want to go into these general political debates anymore, but they're good enough to face the situation a little bit. I want to highlight a few things that the citizens have been watching this debate of ours have asked me to say. First, the question of paying rent for craftsmen in state spaces. So, the craftsman rents state space, pays her rent and works, and then the state forbids him to work, and then he can't charge him a lot of rent. So, specifically the state will have a lower income, but that space that it rented today de facto is worth nothing today because it can work on, it's a market price. Secondly, the issue of complete termination of the work of entrepreneurs, the one that produces toilet paper has a large order, he did not stop working, but, let's say, the textile industry, especially which is dependent on partners from abroad, we got one such mail that has completely stopped working, has closed trade because it has no income, and it is not, it's not exactly that profitable activity that now can pay for 3 months even contributions. What about them? So, one thing that is, then I was warned by citizens from the southern part of Croatia about increased entry into the Republic of BiH after the announcement of this in Mostar that it is positive without self-insulation. Whether this criterion is respected in terms of security and whether self-insulation should be applied in such cases is one of the questions that I have received to say. In the end, this is not an opportunity, this is actually an opportunity for everyone to show responsibility, to show responsibility, that we are able to pass a law that is urgent within 5 seconds without debate, that we are able to put important differences aside because we are facing an even more important danger, but all the incompetences of the government that they have made so far have not forgotten them, but here they are not a priority right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189082	You, too. Mr. Klisovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189083	Thank you very much. In his debate, Mr. Bauk mentioned the constitutional possibility of restricting human rights. And it's really like that. Human rights as we know are one of the greatest values guaranteed by our Constitution and should be very, very careful in their restriction. However, if they are limited for reasons that require a situation to be managed such as an epidemic, it must be strictly restricted in accordance with the Constitution and laws, no different. And all the data and I would like to stress this in particular, all the data that the government or government has come to through the restriction of human rights must also be treated in accordance with the law. So they don't abuse themselves for different political or other purposes tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189084	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189085	Thank you. In various stages of our democracy, we had various rights. Six months ago, it would have been unthinkable to talk about that, if the post office in Zagreb had been working until 18, that most shops would not work, today, that the Croatian Parliament would, so we would have been kicked out of the hall two months ago because we were sitting there, and now we were ordered to sit there in those seats. Therefore, human rights and freedom always need to be fought and re-proved. Because here we have a case in our neighborhood, they've been going a little tighter, a curfew of 20 hours, over 65 don't leave the house, the army guards the hospital. If it'll give us the results, we'll see. If they turn out to have a slower spread of the infection, then it turns out that these human rights are justifiably limited only to not limit them too long and they don't need those restrictions to stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189086	Thank you very much. Mrs. Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189087	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bauk, this is really going to be the biggest crisis since World War II, and I didn't make that up, but that's what those who know better than me say. I can't answer you now in this replica to some questions from the security domain, but what's important today is to say that we as a council are sending a message that it's not the time for recklessness and untested models, that it's time for urgent action both for reasonable action and for seriousness and responsibility. I agree with you that parliament plays an important role in crisis situations when the state is in crisis, and unfortunately this is such a situation, the factor in parliament is very important and it should remain at the level at which it is. I don't like dramatism, but unfortunately it should be said that in the coming weeks and months there will be a lot of stress and a lot of damage both individually and collectively, and it would be a lie if they didn't admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189088	Mr. Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189089	Thank you. I agree that it's not the time for reckless moves, I mean it's never the time for unthinking moves, although sometimes I'm criticised for being calculated, I take it as a compliment, not as a criticism, but it says jealous who can't count. And I know very well what could possibly be the consequences of this, so in 2009. I was a congressman when that crisis in Shucker was just looking who in God when he came with some package. We didn't have an excessive opinion, but at the time we were very fond of him because we knew that something had to be done and that the minimum of what was waiting for us was all right. According to a well-known Croatian politician, "just let the man be healthy", he should have little luck because they were healthy at Titanic, but they were not lucky. So if it doesn't take too long, all these other things will be easier to make up for. If a man is healthy, then he will later [[Intruder: Thank you]] be happy, I hope. [[/Agreement: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189090	Mr. Maras is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club in order to be able to consult further on this law, but also to listen to the MP of President Zoran Milanovic, who is currently starting on HTV, I call on all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to hear what the president has to say about the coronary crisis so that they can act together, so that the consequences are as painless as possible and as easily all together as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189092	Thank you. Approved until 7 and 15. [[It's 7:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 19.13 HOURS]] 9 and 15, we continue to work, Mr. Damir Mateljan has his own individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189094	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, your colleagues and your colleagues. Well, a lot of people here today are talking about this crisis that came upon us talking about some invisible enemy we're fighting. It's not an invisible enemy, so we all know it's a virus, we know its structure, we know how it works, and God's effects are visible. This isn't the first pandemic in history. However, the first pandemic to occur in our generation is the first situation in the 21st century. So there's no experience, so there's no recent experience that we could rely on. In situations like this, in situations like this, citizens turn to themselves, turn to their families. In these situations, however, citizens are turning to the state expecting the state to protect them. And we have to be honest and say, so in this case, in this crisis, the state has reacted well. This applies primarily to the National Civil Protection Centre and to the public health system and citizens thus perceive it. I therefore agree with all those who say that picking up political points in a crisis like this is not allowed in this situation and that citizens would understand that such behaviour would, of course, be condemned. I'm the last of those to support any centralised system. However, today's additions to the civil protection system law that we have made and where we have centralized decisions are actually necessary because this country cannot have 20 public policies relating to this crisis, it cannot have 20 headquarters that will work through each other, all decisions taken must be harmonised, be clear and must be enforceable. Many of my colleagues today speak of these 60th, 60th laws, 60th measures being taken, so they said of that segment of the Croatian economy to which these measures relate, primarily to the service sector, to catering, to tourism, so to those entrepreneurs and to that part of the workers where it is necessary to help entrepreneurs to retain, retain their workers in jobs. However, in my debate, I would refer to that group that nobody mentioned today in this house, and neither is it mentioned in these measures, that is, which is the group that actually received that first blow of economic damage from the spread of coronary viruses, these are day-to-day migrants, or our citizens who work in neighbouring countries, above all in Italy and Slovenia. In the south-west of Karlovac County, in that part bordering the Republic of Slovenia, in 5 units of local self-government with more than 30,000 residents between 30 and 50% of all employees work in the Republic of Slovenia. Since 11 March, so these people can't go to work, they can't exercise their right to work. They get confusing messages from their employers from Slovenia asking them to come to work, although they cannot, although they have orders from Croatian institutions that they cannot exercise their right to work. I do not, of course, expect our government to bring, bring measures to help or protect Slovenian, Slovenian employers, which will, of course, bring more or less success to the Slovenian Government. But what I expect, or expect these people, is that the Croatian government stands behind its citizens who work in neighbouring countries, that in some bilateral talks that will surely be held with our neighbours, they will stand up for their labour rights, because this month they will certainly lose their wages, and these people, like everyone else, have to pay the directors, have to pay the credit wars, have to raise their own, their children. Today, in this acute crisis, we are taking acute measures. This acute crisis tends to become chronic. These acute measures tend to bring more rigorous, more focused, which will, therefore, be even more effective than these fire measures that are being taken today. What I expect as a representative, and I believe what our entire SDP Club expects is that the government, by looking at today's aphimatic and constructive debate that was in the opposition benches, is that they do not go deaf to the votes, to the ideas, to the measures proposed by the opposition. In fact, at this point, we need the synergy of all those who want to get out of this crisis that is the way it is and it's going to be even bigger, we're going to get out, we're going to get stronger, we're going to get out of it, we're going to get out of it, we're going to get out of it, we're going to get out of it, we're going to get out of it with as little damage as possible. And finally, in this crisis, we must not suspend humanity and humanity, but it is equally important, it is equally important that we do not suspend democratic processes and stick to the constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189095	No replica, thank you very much. Mrs. Karolina Leakovic has her own discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, if I didn't repeat my speech about many or all the vulnerable sectors in the Croatian economy, so what we heard earlier from colleagues and colleagues I would focus in these few minutes on the area of culture and the media. I hope that the Minister of Culture or someone from her ministry will understand well on purpose what I have to say by conveying, of course, the messages of cultural and media employees. And as we had heard earlier that today's meeting of the Education, Science and Culture Committee, the minister, in some ways, admitted herself that unfortunately her ministry was not among those who responded quickly, spotically, focused, so the measures that should be taken immediately rather than in fact said that many things are still being analysed as data is being collected and that measures will help culture and the media in particular during some subsequent period. This does not encourage, of course, I, as well as of course all cultural and media employees, expected that among these 63 measures as many as today, which we are discussing here today, will be somewhat more concrete, focused and effective measures that relate precisely to the culture and media sector. In fact, as soon as an epidemic was declared in Croatia, different events immediately began to be cancelled, the cultural sector immediately felt problems, and of course the media immediately entered not into 3 but 5 speeds and without, of course, the contributions of journalists and journalists of all media employees, I think that the flow of information in this satisfactory way that we have today at this high level would certainly not be. In this context, it is important to mention that journalists and journalists are also at risk of being first hit by the risk of coronal virus infection, and I think that their employers in this context should be aware of that. It seems to me that I can say that employees of culture and media with the right of the competent ministry expect more focused, therefore more courageous, effective measures, and I think that one goal should be to avoid losing jobs in culture and in the media and that this so-called. The coronary crisis or the coronary crisis does not turn into a crisis that will affect culture and the media sector. It is, in fact, one if so can the very fragile sector and has only just recovered, if he has recovered from the 2008 crisis at all, I have already talked about it. So by 2012, almost half of the jobs were lost and employment suffered in Croatian media, of course. Many journalists ended up at the employment office, I hope that this time such things, as well as in relation to all our other fellow citizens and fellow citizens, can and should be prevented from working very focusedly on it. The losses in culture, especially when it comes to performing arts, are already huge, cultural events are cancelled, so if tomorrow the actual number of events is significantly reduced, if the cinemas, theatres, concert halls are closed, the fees are reduced, we know that in culture and the media are mostly overworked, there are, of course, permanent employees, but I am talking about those exposed to these fluctuations of the market. Co-operation is cancelled and people are fired and projects are put on hold. This means that, in fact, in the medium and longer term, this crown crisis for many workers and workers in culture and the media will mean less money, less projects, less work of more uncertainty and uncertainty, and for all of us, this will also mean less availability of cultural content, less availability of quality information, quality journalism we have said how important it is for the development of democracy and in general for culture policy. Although not in these measures, the ministry writes on its website that a crisis fund will be established, it does not really say anywhere exactly what this crisis fund will be used for, to which it is intended, or what amount we are actually talking about. But the Ministry of Culture, when it comes to the media sector, has already available some instruments, I hope they will start using them. In fact, the Minister of Culture has not actually completed or has not published the results of tenders for non-profit media, competitions from the European Social Fund, the media community, for which 30 million kuna has been secured, a tender for 15 million kunas has been launched, should therefore be announced urgently, the results of this tender should be announced in order to invest this money in quality journalism and, of course, a tender for the next 15 million kunas, which are available to non-profit media. This is something that should have already been done, just as it has been announced that funds for pluralism and diversity of electronic media agencies will be paid off, it is also something that can be done immediately, it is not something special these are regular activities, but what needs to be done is therefore to call the trust's tender for next year already now. The availability of cultural content therefore does not end with our going to the cinema, theatre, to concerts in galleries they are closed unfortunately, but the audience is interested in having a quality cultural offer and not just on HRT which introduced as we know the educational program into its programmes. I appeal that in the same way or in an appropriate way, public television, public radio, and other media, of course, are involved in overcoming this problem, so either through web streaming or in some other way, enables public cultural content that would be available to the general public. Of course, the measures prepared for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in other branches should certainly be part of measures for cultural entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. As we know, a number of programmes are project-funded, we need to agree on the new dynamics of their realization but we need to be aware that in a culture in the media they are doing so, as I have already said, people mostly in a preeminent position and that they need to pay the copyright fees, that anything that may have been delayed or not paid off, and now that would be very important. Of course, the most important thing is not to lose jobs in the media sector, but I said that in many ways and as a result of the crisis 12 years ago but also because of some other specificities in the sector, therefore, many jobs have disappeared. We need to keep journalists and journalists, only well-paid and high-quality journalists and journalists can therefore report quality and are therefore not subject to any public interest, I think it is also very important to stress at this point. So I urge the Ministry of Culture to be organized, to be braver, to be more innovative. These extreme circumstances in which we are located do not require measures that we have previously known, they require a different way of thinking and it is certain that in such very specific sectors as these two of whom I have tried briefly to point out, I think that there is indeed room but for action immediately and not for action which means a delay from taking measures for the next 2, 3 weeks. in another package when conditions are obtained for this, etc. So I appeal to listen to recommendations, as I have already said, of professional organisations that professional organisations in culture both of course and professional media organisations and that in fact this crisis is also used as an opportunity for greater public investment in culture. So, as they say, now is the opportunity to not only show how important it is and how important public health is, how important public services are and how important a good organisation is. I also think it is extremely important that we come out of this crisis with the awareness that the public media, that investment in culture and education is of course the same thing that we should naturally be at the top of the list of priorities. And I'm using, of course, the opportunity to join my colleagues and colleagues who, of course, thanked everyone who works primarily in service activities, in health care, in social care, they're mostly women, and then this way I point out, of course, that they're exposed and that they're of course underpaid. So here, the coronary crisis is, of course, fractured over those who are the weakest paid. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189097	You'll get a chance to respond to the replicas now, so continue the conversation. Mr. Maras has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189098	Thank you very much. My colleague Leaković, here you have enjoyed that you have the first debate in this mandate regarding one crisis but you have pointed out a huge problem that I think in these measures the government may have fallen a little out of the first plan or not in focus, it is hundreds and thousands of free artists and singers and actors who are in trouble at this time, who are without permanent engagement and cannot make money for their lives or cannot hold concerts and cannot maintain performances and of course the government should take into account them and include them in these measures that will go towards entrepreneurs. The companies that are the organizers of production of these events should also be included because these companies are currently out of work. means a whole series of activities but we must not forget our creative actors and singers who are going through a very, very difficult period at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189099	Thank you very much. Thank you, too. Answer, ma'am. Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189100	Of course, fellow Maras, the creators are creative, so they have already self-organized and one petition that is orbiting the Internet space has actually wanted to point to their very vulnerable position because, as I have already said, it is a wave of people who are engaged in the project, which depends on the fees, the authorial contracts, the work contracts, etc., I think it is extremely important to bear in mind how much the world of work and the concept of work has changed and how much it really affects many employees, therefore, in the Republic of Croatia, our prominent workers and workers who do not enjoy the rights that we once considered normal and which I still consider normal and necessary, and I will fight to actually use this crisis and thus point to the importance and need of workers and workers and to actually improve their status.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189101	Thank you very much. Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189102	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Leaković, thank you for really reminding us once again of the problems faced by cultural workers especially because culture is an inseparable part of the identity of one nation, one society, and as such must have special treatment in its crisis situations. The government should certainly help a little more than these measures proposed by naked cultural workers but what I wanted to say here, so these people really are creative and show their creativity by not giving up on performances, by not knowing concerts, but by doing virtually today, so through the Internet and programs, solving the possibility of one user watching and paying a ticket for such a program that is really phenomenal and shows that even in difficult times, creative people can find solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189103	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189104	We already have a significant number of cultural workers and workers, artists and artists who organized themselves and who make their performances, their performances, concerts not only accessible to the public through payment but also free of charge. And I think it's actually a big role of the Ministry of Culture that could be very simple measures that wouldn't significantly burden the budget to ensure that such a kind of program is available free of charge through public service, means that the performances of some of our theatres or that any other garden of performance can be seen in some way in these times on our public television more than it has ever been. So again important is public television, it can be and must be much better than it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189105	Thank you. Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189106	Dear colleague Leakovic. It is a great idea for you, and I hope that the government and HRT will hear that in these difficult times when people are forced to be in their homes, they are left to themselves in some way while doctors are fighting the first line of defense with this terrible disease while teachers and teachers are also falling off their feet to enable children to at least be educated from home, to put HRT into the function of meeting public needs among other things and the need for culturers on the one hand, to work, to be creative, and on the other hand citizens to consume the same content. With all due respect to the ministry that great teachers and teachers have managed in this teaching situation, I must remind myself that not long ago we had a time when it was perfectly normal for us to have a school on HRT and out of school, when the educational program was both a powerful source of information and for our children and for adults. We're going back to the factory settings, maybe there's something good about this evil.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189107	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189108	So, of course we remember all the school program that was once one of my guesses and I believe the most qualitative parts of the general public television programme in Croatia. I'll just say it again, so this is an extraordinary opportunity to strengthen our trust in public services in what the state can and should provide. I am, of course, an advocate of state interventionism, and I am extremely glad that we have seen some of the measures taken by the Government, and it is precisely about limiting the price of some basic living goods or supplies, the hygiene supplies that we now need, so that we now see how important it is not to limit ourselves or not to rely on the market. The advocate of the market in this house has always been too much for my taste, but I hope that in the future we will have a more rational, soberer, more reasonable debate in which role the state plays and why it is important that the state is not only there as a decoration.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189109	Thank you. Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189110	Dear colleague Leakovic. Yes, you are right we must show that culture must progress, but we must also show that solidarity towards the weaker must progress and there is no logic that part of the income of the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities to release labour intensive employment activities and quota substitutions or quota employment and substitutions, but especially not indefinitely. You can always do that while the crisis is going on. And protection workshops and those proud people with disabilities who work and produce and earn money for their lives should be given a chance, not to spend their money that belongs to them. We can give them an example. to make 10 million, ministers, 10 million protective masks and put in stock reserves so we don't have a situation like this that we don't have basic means of protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189111	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189112	It would be truly absurd, and it would be totally unacceptable for this crisis and this crisis to say "breaks" to those who are most sensitive, most vulnerable, who are, of course, those who can contribute and contribute to our society, if they always need an additional incentive. In this context, it is necessary to consider whether the measures proposed in this way are exactly what should be taken immediately. I, of course, advocate that, and today we've heard something about it, takes care of people who don't have a roof over their heads, so homeless people, of all those who are extremely exposed in these times, are extremely exposed to the risk of the coronary virus. And of course, I'm in favour of exploiting the potential of all our fellow citizens and fellow citizens and saying don't be the first person with disabilities to be rejected in this context.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189113	Thank you. Now it is Mr. Josko Klisovic who will have his individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189114	Thank you very much, Vice President. So we're faced with, as we know, an epidemic or a pandemic, it's a kind of emergency, a crisis situation where it's crucial to manage a crisis based on a risk assessment, on any thing that comes simply to assess the risk and take appropriate appropriate measures, that's exactly the point of crisis management. Of course, human rights limitations are also possible as our order allows in exceptional situations. But I repeat once again, it must be strictly based on the law and the Constitution, and all data collected through the limitations of human rights must also be treated in a way that is not used in accordance with the laws of this country. The fundamental risk we face in fact and to which we need to find the answer, I hope that science will soon be able to tell us reliably, is what the risk to human health really is to the coronary virus. According to what we know now, we have vulnerable groups, especially older people, so over 60 and let's say 5 years, as well as immunocompromised persons, so people who have a fall in immunity for a certain reason. What seems to me is that instead of just focusing solely on reducing social contact between people, we need to deal with both vulnerable groups and how to protect these people from getting the virus because for them the virus can be deadly. Therefore, in addition to the increased capacity for intensive care that can be improvised, to which an emphasis should also be placed, there is also a question of equipment, especially respirators that are key to the treatment of such persons. I think that in this way we would further hit the essence of this epidemic, and in healthy people who can obviously get over this virus with their own immunity and thus create a national resistance that should also be taken into account when adopting measures to reduce social contact. What is important is also to mention when we were working on a national security strategy or Homeland Security strategy, then also when I wrote for the previous government, we came to the realization that we need to significantly improve the early warning system to any extraordinary situation, the danger to national security. So we're going to have to further improve this system, which shows this crisis that we started dealing with only when things got worse in the neighborhood. In addition to the early warning system, the issue of crisis management must be quite clear. We see that it wasn't done until the end, arranged as soon as we had to amend the Civil Protection Act today. So in practice things don't work out like they're imagined, and the legal, normative framework isn't even defined. But what's good is that we still learn this whole time as the crisis goes on, so obviously we're good at learning from day to day in view of what's going on, so the National Station that makes decisions is pretty sensitive to the development of the situation and everything that comes to them as its own or recommendations or suggestions. I hope that so will all the amendments that we will propose as an opposition tomorrow also in good faith be accepted by the ruling majority at this time are indeed all, all on the same task, so the task of managing the crisis and everyone must make their own individual and joint contribution to it with as little negative effects on health and our people above all, and then on the economy and all other risks involved. The government's own measures, which are mostly economical, I think are insufficient, especially those that talk about the postponement of certain payments, therefore tax or other public charges and charges that entrepreneurs have to give, and are not talking about write-offs, because what is this about? Today we will postpone 3 months of paying taxes, say, or contributions, and these contributions will come at a charge of 3 months when they will come and the next ones who are due in this future three-month period, so they will be double that they should pay, and I am not sure that they will simply collect enough money for entrepreneurs to make it. As all of this will fall into pre-election time for parliamentary elections, it will not be very good if it is written off in the context of the campaign for parliamentary elections, so these public claims, it would be better today when there is really one sentiment that the government needs to be helped to play fair and that the write-off is already announced, not after 3 months. It is equally important to note that the support they think is to be given to the economy should be tied to and with the cancellations to be announced. So, if they want state support, they should simply stop employers from firing people or the apprehension of any labour rights that people belong to under the law. And in order for everything to end well together and to continue in good faith, I think that supervision of budget spending is crucial, especially when government is now given autonomy so that it can switch from one item to another within the budget of money. This is not without reason limited and is not without reason that parliament must decide on this. However, in crisis situations, it is also possible for the government to be left with the right to decide, but not without any supervision, and in that sense I think that the assembly or at least the committee responsible should retain the authority to oversee the transfer of money from one item to another. Today we also heard a lot about how now it is shown that Croatian sovereignty or national sovereignty is a key dish without it unfortunately cannot be managed by the crisis. I think that this situation today shows how important the common European response to it is. And that is why I am glad that the Commission has already prepared economic measures that will go through the Cohesion Fund, as well as other solidarity funds, etc., as well as restrictions on travel to the EU and many other measures that the Commission has taken, or proposed, which will certainly reduce the possibility of further spreading the virus. The Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people do not live in isolation and as such cannot be protected, especially from these cross-border threats such as an epidemic or a pandemic. Therefore, the common response that a wider round of states can bring to this situation is the only good effective results that we all wish for together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189115	Mrs. Devereaux. Leakovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189116	Your colleague Klisovic, you have rightly indicated this need to, therefore, not to give notice or to avoid firing workers with the support to be given to certain economic operators or to postpone or write down certain tax or other charges. I think it is extremely important that we do not put ourselves into a situation so that we give public resources in production or in any other type of activity, and that on the other hand we see that workers and workers in this company are no longer present or that their rights have been significantly reduced, that their salaries have been significantly reduced, therefore I think it is extremely important to find a very good balance between these two rights and this is the right to work and, of course, this right to entrepreneurial freedom or entrepreneurial activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189117	Answer, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189118	Thank you very much. Yes, a crisis situation is certainly not a situation where someone needs to cover their previous debts or try to make a profit. The state is here for the citizens and should protect them. Workers are therefore the largest group of people most at risk in this crisis but, of course, employers are also through possible losses that will not damage their business. Therefore, this balance between the interests of employers and the interests of employees must be achieved to the benefit of all of us, but surely given that the state must take care of its citizens, and the number of citizens who have been fired is much higher than those who are in danger of not being able to continue their business, there is certainly a need to have a special sensitivity towards employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189119	- Mrs. Crescent. Ahmetovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189120	Thank you. Kola Klisovic, today we are talking about economic measures, but I would like to emphasise once again that this crisis has actually come from an attempt to protect the health of all our citizens. Today, the president also spoke publicly and said that we must pray and protect our loved ones, our parents, our children, grandparents. What I would really like to point out again to all those who see us as important to appeal to everyone to stay at home so that the situation does not further escalate. That's what we're saving not only our lives today but also the economy and the existence of all of us tomorrow. So once again I appeal to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to stay home mostly to those of the oldest who are at risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189121	Mr. Klisovic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189122	Thank you very much. Yes, you're right, colleague Ahmetovic, this is primarily a health crisis with great consequences for the economy and society as a whole. Every responsible person and member of our society must make a contribution to the management of this crisis, so it's not just the national headquarters that makes decisions for all of us, so we have to respect them, each of us and our conscience tells us to be responsible, to do everything we can to avoid spreading the virus further, so that we don't get in touch with older people who can have fatal consequences from getting the virus. That's the same thing. I am very glad to see some groups of people in society who have made themselves available to older people and helping them to bring food or medicines or other supplies so that people cannot and must leave their apartments. This is a commendable initiative which, of course, will also be included in the overall measures proposed by the National Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189123	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Orepic's turn, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189124	Thank you, dear Vice President. The consequences of this will be double, first medical and second economic. And geopolitical. Europe is no longer a union today. Each country reacts to this crisis differently, each in its own way, closing borders, no concerted action, no solidarity. She won't be able to. I'm afraid there's little to know about this virus. Well, Immunologist Srecko Sladolev claims that this is all a very expensive story like that with swine flu, he says that 1,000 people who die from the coronary of the virus, from malaria in the same period die 50 times more. I don't know if Sladolev is right or wrong, I'm not a doctor by profession and probably doctors have a right when they say that the virus is very dangerous. We know he's dangerous for an older generation. It's important not to spread panic and it seems to me that panic is spreading faster than the virus. There's one story, an old story when a caravan went to Damascus and came across the plague, and asked the leader of the caravan plague "where are you going?" and said "I'm going to Damascus there to kill 100 people," when she came back, she was asked again by the leader of the caravan "well, you said you killed 1,000 people, you killed 5,000," "not," she says, "no, I killed only 1,000, and these others died of fear". Mortality is very high in elderly people and those who are of older age, em are impaired health. They're either heart patients or diabetics. Now. What? [[And male.]] Or have weak immunity, of course. [[And male.]] Now, the older people who live in families, there's someone who cares about them and what about those who live alone? There are some associations of citizens helping them, is that enough? Is that enough? Shouldn't that problem have been approached systematically? We have an army. The army has its own sanity. Why isn't she also involved in protecting these old people, bringing them drugs, bringing them food, taking care of them? The way it's gonna be, the whole country's been quarantined since last night. What's it gonna be? What will be the consequences for the economy? I mean inconceivable. Well, that'll leave hundreds of thousands of people out of work. Are these measures good? Well, look, they kind of are, but they're not enough. What does it mean to postpone the payment of tax obligations? So who can she help? It can help if their tax obligations are forgiven, and if we just postpone them, that payment, so they won't pay for 3 months, let's say this crisis can last, and then they'll have to pay with a backlog. How can that help them? We have, uh, these people who pay tax breaks for renting rooms at sea. The season can be ruined, if they don't have any guests, but they're going to have to pay for the cobwebs. Why aren't they involved in these measures? How much is this gonna cost the economy? How much will it cost the government? I think it's impossible to calculate now. Today 500 people came to the stock market. Not all employers will keep their workers, not with these encouraging measures, many will fire them. What's that life gonna look like in that quarantine anyway? What's going to happen here? I don't think anybody knows, and how much is that gonna cost? Well, why didn't you at least consider suspending a one-time Vatican contract? Well, there's billions going to church, and we won't have health care here. And the churches will be closed from tonight anyway, no one will be able to. So I think these, these are some kind of measure, but I'm afraid most employers will be able to only read them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189125	You have one replica from Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189126	Mr. Stazic, you have rightly warned that today a large number of people die in the world of different viruses and infectious diseases, much greater than the coronary virus. But the coronary virus has received such a perception in the public of a virus, a disease that must be dealt with by all, and we are not yet really sure how it affects a healthy man with full immunity. But two approaches to the problem, one is to create an immunity of the nation through not limiting too much social contact, and only to protect particularly risky groups, older people and immunocompromised people and another approach is to limit social contacts so that the virus does not spread due to insufficient facilities in hospitals and respirators as basic equipment. Which is correct will actually show time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189127	Mr. Stazic, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189128	We don't have the right data as to exactly how infected they are, so the same thing between us can be carriers of viruses that haven't broken the symptoms. Who knows? We know that there are those who are over, so those who are younger have a better immune system. Is it, then, whether these measures that are being introduced tonight will cause more panic and more damage than this one approach that you have suggested to protect only those who are at risk, not to close down everything and hundreds of thousands of people on the market, and we have no idea what they're going to feed their families from tomorrow, we have no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189129	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Ivan Pernar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189130	Ladies and gentlemen, today I have entered history as the only representative who voted against the introduction of a state of emergency in our country or against giving authority to this civil protection headquarters to actually shut down economic activity in the country. The reason I did this is because I am aware of the economic consequences that this will have, and they will be far-reaching anyway. After tourism is completely liquidated, so this season there is nothing, we are in a situation that also catering, as well as all accompanying branches or service activities such as. hair salons, etc. It will also not be able to work, which in translation means that a lot of people will lose their jobs, lose their existence, and that will ultimately lead to people doing suicide, that, that they will not see a simple way out of this whole situation. These measures the government proposes would make sense when? If the government were to take care of people. So if the government says listen to the people we have to close the cafes and I don't know, hotels, cartoons, whatever, but if the government said at the same time but for you people who won't work at that time we'll take care of you, but the government doesn't say that. The government tells employers next, you'll be the one to pay taxes and contributions while your workers do not work. So why would some employer pay contributions and taxes to a worker who doesn't work in a company that is banned from work. Here, somebody explain it to me. It doesn't make sense. And I remember when I explained to Plenkovic here in the morning, I told Mr Plenkovic your measures are not the answer. What you're about to do won't stop the fire wave. He tells me you're Pernar demagogue, like you're talking nonsense. But what happened? Not a few hours after that, a picture comes out in front of the stock market, HZZ crowds people on each other, waiting for a wave of people who were out of work, which means the prime minister lied and I was right. Will he tell me about it? Of course he won't. He doesn't care about those people. And what you would also like to highlight is the problem of people who, for example, have children who have leukemia or who are the stages of remission, who should take these medicines, who do not have an immune system. You have a father and a mother, the crown for such children is fatal, however, what happens? Parents have now taken a vacation, but when they fire, what choice do they have? I repeat the child, with them at home. One can take sick leave, the other can't. If the other one works, how will the other one work now, he must not be in contact with e.g. a husband with a wife or a wife with a husband. Basically, the only solution you're offering here is to separate a husband or a woman from each other and live in separate places or in isolation from each other. Also, I'd like to read you a letter from people, in this case a lady who is bitter with this whole policy all together and doesn't actually see a way out of this situation. He says it like this. Your Honor, I know you've been getting a lot of messages these days and probably mine is one in a row. These days, we're struggling with the coronary virus and where we're going with the employees, how we're going to pay the bills. I as the owner of a craft in which I have several employees, where every month I have a minimum of 30 000 kuna of net cost, so that business is somewhat reduced to 0, I cannot continue to function in a way that delays the payment of contributions and taxes because the primary question is the survival of the liquidity of the crafts, the situation with workers, let alone the continuation of business and the payment of delayed liabilities. I also have a father who fights leukemia and tumor, so as a young and ambitious entrepreneur, I ask you to help us find our rights. Watch the thought, we all have loans, I'm both a mother and kids are scared because they look at me nervously and sadly, and they ask me how they can help me. I have the will and desire of this country and to prove to people that when you love your job and you try, that you can succeed, that it's not as bad as they say, and then when you expect help, they stab us in the back every day. I hope you'll take a few minutes and help the little man in trouble. So, people like this woman, this government has put them down. Where will tenants pay rent? I have no idea. Where's he gonna pay the loans from? I have no idea. Here's your sweat one, I invite everyone to wonder. You say the workers who are out of work will go to the Employment Service and receive compensation, right? Yeah, but what? First, point a, they're going to receive a fee for a certain time but point b which is much more interesting, what about those who haven't met the conditions for that fee, who haven't worked long enough to have the right to it? They will not receive it, they will lose no income. Finally, there is a complete breakdown, I explained another problem this morning, I explained that Croatia keeps the foreign exchange balance from tourism due to its foreign exchange rate, or to express itself this way, that we have a balance of inflows and exchanges from the country thanks to revenues from tourism. However, when tourism revenues are missing, what will happen, ladies and gentlemen? It'll come to a lot more going out of the country than getting into it. In a normal economic system where the course is slippery, where it's not fixed, what's going on? But since we have the CNB as a currency exchanger, the kuna course will remain stable, but what will happen? There will be no money in the country, no liquidity, and we will find ourselves in trouble. And then here, Prime Minister Plenkovic comes and speaks shereticly, says we all have to bear the burden of the crisis or we have to share all the burden or we have to be solid and other big paroles. But when I told him, Mr. Plenkovic, let's show in practice that you're ready to be solid, give you a cut in your salary and my salary. We who have high wages, cut our wages, show solidarity to those who do not. Says Plenkovic, Mr. Pernar, says you're a demagogue. Like you, you're not serious. I'm not serious? So is he even aware of what kind of situation people are in, or does he care about it at all? It's a question to ask. On the other hand, last year, the hole in the state register was 40 billion kuna, you all know that. How many holes are there this year in the state register? God knows. This government has no vision, no solution. And finally, what's going to happen? We're not talking about that until the 9th or the 10th months. It's going to take a crisis, no, no, no, ladies and gentlemen, what's going to happen? The tourist season lasts from 5th to maximum 10th month. What does that mean in translation, ladies and gentlemen? This means that all those who have worked or counted on profits from this season will be left without money for up to 10 months. This year, from the 5th month. Next year. So we're gonna stay, we're gonna have a hole for a year minimum, and what are these people gonna live on? Plenkovica doesn't care. I don't know what to say anymore, I believe I've said everything, which I wanted to understand is understood, you're finally asking what the solution is, so the solution is to remove the currency clause, let the state start creating money and let with that money being created, help people who don't have where to repay loans or directors, etc., who are now out of work. That's the answer. Let the kuna weaken, let the course fall, it is important to untie the loans from the currency clause, let inflation eat the loans. If we're not going to do that, we have a social disaster and a social bomb ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189131	Replica, ma'am. Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189132	Thank you. Comrade Pernar, you voted wrong when you voted against the authority given to the National Civil Protection Staff. I mean, the situation is extraordinary, not how you think it isn't. The most risky groups of people, the oldest walk free streets and not only endanger their lives but also endanger the health of others by passing on the virus to them. The situation is extraordinary and healthy and economic, and therefore the state must do everything to protect its citizens. I will also tell you not to yell, you will be sick and your health system must be focused on patients or infected by the coronary virus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189133	Answer, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189134	Ma, distinguished MPs, you will see the problem is seemingly a health issue, but when you lose your job, when you have nothing to pay for directors, rents, credit rates, when there are no incomes left, when the executions, the fall of the execution starts on you, then you will realize that the crown is not the worst thing that could happen to Croatia. Now the question is what kind of reputation you're looking at, if you're looking at from the corner of a young family that is the future of this country, from a corner or a corner of a worker, it's clear to you that the bigger problem is economic than health. And if you're looking from the perspective of an 85-year-old person with 10 chronic diseases, and then the main problem in the country of the crown is actually the difference in the angle from which you and I are looking at this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189135	Mr. Tomislav Jagar has his own discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189136	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not sure I'm going to say a lot of new things that haven't been said today, but let me say something from my point of view about this topic. So, what we can say with certainty is that the situation is extremely serious, we can look at 3 aspects or 3 views of this story, first of all it is a health aspect and there is no doubt about it, the health of people must be first, and I also use the opportunity to thank all healthcare professionals, all the services that care and care about the safety of citizens today and their health in extremely difficult situations because we also see that medical staff suffer from illness. The second aspect is the economic aspect and it will certainly be that this fellow Pernar in the previous debate, little truth hyperventilated, but man has told the truth, this will certainly leave serious consequences on the economy in the Republic, so that it could really happen to us about the circle he is talking about, that after this health threat, the economic danger is reflected again on people's health in terms of their threat and their existence. And the third aspect is the social aspect and what I resent with these measures, so I'm going to express myself, is trying again to shift the social aspect to the economic field. So pay's not a social category. The salary is the right of workers, the wages are earned and to make the salary, the owner must have jobs, in other words he must have contracts on which to earn a worker his salary. In this case, the government's intention is good, and what I've seen is that most MPs are polymizing about it, and that's a delay in tax returns. Indeed, those who say that the state has nothing actually, the state can't give, the state takes and then distributes it. In this case, the state may say, we for some time give up the tax revenues we hope to later taxpayers, it's the farmer's pay, when the situation gets better. But what the Secretary of State or the Minister who is not here now are neither premiums, they couldn't say, we don't even know how long this crisis will last, what the consequences will have and what will actually happen. We could say this now, we're trying but we're tapping in the dark. Of course, that doesn't mean you shouldn't try. And on this side I welcome the measures, however, I am not sure how much they will really provide what is the main intention of how much I understand these measures, which is to preserve jobs because jobs can never be preserved administratively and especially because today we have given power to the national headquarters to shut down a lot of jobs here since midnight, so to put it this way, it will stop the work of many locals, many crafts, so the question now is how many of these entrepreneurs are mainly about small entrepreneurs, how much they are already overworked to endure more. the days that they don't work without being able to pay not only the wages but all those obligations they have. And this is a serious problem, and we hope that this is only about 30 days because if this situation is extended, especially if the tourist season is at risk, then we don't get any good news because the main tax revenues are actually the main revenues of the budget, and of which the highest tax revenue is VAT, so we're a consumer society and significant income in that work are precisely revenues from tourism, and we're afraid that the budget could be in great danger. To say that differently, the state has no money, the state if it postpones paying taxes, the state has to move those funds in a different way and the only way they can is borrowing. The measures also provide for borrowing, the favourable borrowing of entrepreneurs to achieve liquidity, the payment of salaries, and even the re-financing of existing commitments, which is all to be welcomed. The active involvement of HBOR, HAMAG Bicro, is, in any case, all to welcome, but whether these measures will be sufficient if this crisis really extends over a slightly longer period of time, that is a question but, of course, beyond these frameworks today's debates. Here is trying to do something, the truth in the short term, and the prime minister himself said the president, sorry, the minister here, that we'll see the effects of that. What seems to me to be good and is about farmers is the release of certain funds to help farmers, especially now in the course of spring sowing, and I don't think that spring seed should in any way endanger it from being in danger that it can't be done. It is also a good measure to return incentives with an extension of the repayment of those funds. The most important thing would be if these measures were to succeed, directly pay the amount up to the minimum wage level so that there would be no layoff of workers, but once again I stress, it seemed rather tense to me, it could be short-term but if it would happen in the long term, it's hard to say. Finally, I would just like to look specifically at the Labour Market Act, relating to the measure relating to permanent seasons, the measure in terms of preserving their jobs, according to the 2019 data, 5283, seems to me very good in terms of preserving their jobs but I am not sure that this model and when we speak from the point of view, the law itself is called the Labour Market Act, how efficient it will be and how effective it is in practice. Finally, to conclude once again, the situation is extremely dangerous, no one at this time, and even the prime minister couldn't say what could be expected today, hopefully, I'm by nature an optimist, we hope for the best, but we must be prepared for worse scenarios and in that sense, the government of the Republic of Croatia, although it is good that today, that the Parliament has not left the government's authority to decide beyond Parliament, the government has to react quickly, if we should be called urgently, well-monitoring the situation on the ground because things are themselves both in medicine and so in the economy will not solve. I'll support most of these measures when I vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189137	Mr. Hrelja will replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189138	Dear colleague, I have the impression that most of these measures are taken in a straight line, that no one is looking at the whole and the width of these measures, as well as at the ones you mentioned, in the permanent season. In fact, it's not about any kind of crisis, so it's about people who are specialists, having specific skills, chefs, waiters, so experts in their own esteemed experts in their work and keeping them for one whole activity, otherwise it's kept. This law, i.e. the addition of this law, says only to extend this for them to continue paying because their payment is co-financed by the HZZ through extended insurance and employers in the community. That's good, but shouldn't it be said in a crisis like this that the state of these people who have hygiene checks is available in view of their co-financing and other activities specifically for the needs of the health system?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189139	Time, Mr. Sagar will surely answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189140	Well, let's just say it the simplest way. We're postponing these legal proposals, but we can't postpone the expenses. So if we say contributions will not be paid for a month or 3 months, pensions must be paid. We now have an unfavourable relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of users and then, in this sense, seasonal workers and everything that we're going to do, I'm not going to use the ugly word chemistry now, but what we're trying to do administratively now will not yield results unless we reach out to other measures. It's an emergency. You have now said well, here I will say the most picturesquely, in Slavonia, if a man sees that he will not sell wine, then there will be an oven of brandy, so urgently he must be helped to find those opportunities to activate his labour force on other businesses in order to survive on the market and that must be done by the Government with incentive measures through the involvement of HBOR and business banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189141	Thank you. Thank you, time. Now it's Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn in front of his club, the closing word, he's gone, he's losing his right. And finally, Mr. Miro Bulj, in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189142	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, secretary. I'm sorry he's not a minister here because I think on behalf of the MOST Club, he's gonna take action. Before I look back at the work of the Parliament, the work of the Parliament must be in continuity, we must make decisions and expect from the Ministry of Finance, i.e. from the Government that they will be given meaning budget, the budget rebalance in which there will be measures that will pump money into jobs, into the economy, that these measures are restrictive, first of all, if necessary and what needs to be done to us by the parliamentary representatives, the Government, the counties, all restrictive measures and all to pump up, here is one of the key requirements, that, as soon as possible, the next week, if possible, to save jobs, i.e. to send us this proposal on budget rebalancing because it is very important now that every job is done. MOST of Independent Lists has also made certain proposals, these proposals go mainly to what you do i.e. everything you do. The proposal, 63 proposals you made today in this debate, we discussed, in order to reduce the economic, economic effects of the coronary virus, we believe that it should be much more restrictive, not delaying taxes, imposes, get the owners but all abolished because every job is very important, the businessmen won't be able to endure, people get fired, they simply don't have jobs, tourist season is at risk at this point, people are at the employment desk, i.e. at the Employment Office, which means that as soon as possible the budget rebalancing and the maximum funds must be pumped into the economy for each job. Of course, we come here and people have problems, for example. I got a message from a lady who says that she and her husband are working in the catering, that they got fired, not fired, but simply an entrepreneur, that employer can't pay them. The question is, what are these two parents going to do now? So we have one set of problems and MOST has made its proposals and everything for the purpose of preserving jobs. Postponing to three, six months. Basically, if you delay, then basically what you're postponing, you're postponing that effect for three and six months. So that's the message, you didn't die now, you'll die in six months. i.e. You'll be gone in six months. This is one serious problem, a huge problem, we need to be solid, but not just solid about the humane issue, and once again I commend all volunteers, medical staff, people who work in services, all services, just need help, we need to call for solidarity, we need to help mainly vulnerable groups. In the end, I would say what is most important, if we have not learned any lessons from this crisis, and the main issue is the question, and this is the question that Croatia does not have self-sufficient products, mainly food products. I urge you once again from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to finally divide the country, assign land to our farmers, Croatian farmers. It's now 800,000 ha of unprocessed land. Believe me, now is the time, now we have to run and I invite all of us, buy our own home, buy our own products so we don't depend on foreign products, buy our own domestics, buy our own locals and encourage our peasants. 2/3 of Croatia is empty, it's a bad policy, if we see anything now, we need to see that we have to change the paradigm. I laughed, even the prime minister used to insult me when I was talking about this that 2/3 of Croatia was empty, that agricultural land was not being processed, that people were moving us, if they didn't see it now, and if they didn't see it now, the Croatian government and those who decide and all of us, to those bad policies in the Republic of Croatia where we all came down to import and import lobby, then there's nothing. Once again, here's the final meaning of the debate, once again thank you to all who will help those who are the weakest, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189143	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate, and we're going to vote to get the terms, so that means tomorrow. We'll continue our session tomorrow, Thursday, at 9:30 a.m., with a statement on the amendments. After that, we will have a club position, so after the statement, we will have a club position and then we will have a vote at 12 o'clock. Thank you very much and see you tomorrow. The session was interrupted in 20.28 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189144	Good morning, I wish you all, and as announced, we will begin to discuss the amendments that have been given to the laws we discussed yesterday. So, first of all, we're going to go to a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the General Tax Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 861. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, representative Ivan Lovrinović, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, representatives of Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, representative of Miro Bulj, the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and we change Croatia. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted and the conclusion submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic, and not, but a respected secretary of state, did not raise my eye, Secretary of State Zdravko Zrinasic. First of all, Amendment number one to the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. The government has adopted a package of measures through several laws that it has estimated can help entrepreneurs at this stage of the epidemic. First of all, in order to preserve jobs and liquidity, it is important to speed up while enabling other users of the budget to function in activities related to the coronary virus situation, as well as to enable direct financial assistance to the most affected in this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189146	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Vice President of the High House Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189147	Thank you very much. So this was just our contribution, we think it's insufficient and will be insufficient exclusively prolonging i.e. delays i.e. The possibility of paying in 24 wars, therefore, is better for you to measure to entrepreneurs, and in order to preserve jobs or jobs, so by direct transfer you pay and minimum wages and contributions and therefore release them for 2 or 3 months of that payment, because what we're about to say in the economy is going to hit your head in 12 months. [[I'd like to speak to my colleagues, please, a little more quietly.]] Believe me, because people have neither enough nor resources, nor liquidity have problems with goods flows, so also in the purchase of raw materials and repromaterials, and in the case of exports especially to Italy, Germany and Austria on which 85% of our trade exports depend. So think about saying, well thought and try to do one more thing. So, let's make protocols and now your entrepreneurs yesterday, the day before yesterday don't even know who they need when they're closing shops and shops and shops. There's no protocol in society, no economic protocol. Here I appeal to you really well-intentioned to make protocols and to give some of the psychosis that is created in the economy you relax, and to think about this measure in the future. So, I support these measures by the government, I think they are insufficient, but try to say think that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189148	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189149	To ask for a vote, to apologize for the vote, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189150	The second amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189151	The amendment is similar to the content, with the same explanation is not accepted with a note as previously related to these activities in order to preserve jobs and liquidity, above all because of the speed of action and as highlighted in the opening part yesterday when the motion was made by the prime minister of the Croatian government to pass a package of several laws at this stage of the epidemic, which does not mean that the Government will not continue to react. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189152	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189153	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, therefore, I think that your argument, the explanation of Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric, that this is the package we are going with now and that in the perspective we may be going with a stronger package, is not a good enough explanation. The measures for Croatian craftsmen, Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian citizens are needed now, they must be clear, they must be determined, they must be strong. That's why we've suggested that income tax obligations be waived and a salary contribution of 3 months. As much as we hope that at least during that period this crisis will end, if not before, we would be happy to see it done. And we are also asking for the write-off of all mandatory membership fees and non-taxable fees for the whole year because you are probably also aware of what will be the consequences for our craftsmen and entrepreneurs who have now been forced to close their cafes, their restaurants, their facilities, which will happen with Croatian tourism, so write-off of all these non-tax duties and membership fees for the whole of 2020 and write-off of income tax and salary contributions over 3 months. These are strong measures, it is an adequate response to this crisis and the only concrete solutions is unfortunately proposed by the Most Independent Lists, we will independently support these Government proposals even though they are insufficient, but we ask you for Croatian citizens, Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian craftsmen, support these amendments, or at least give your proposals of this type and we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189154	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189155	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189156	Thank you. The third amendment is MPs Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, he is the same content as Amendment number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189157	So, identical content and not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189158	She doesn't have a colleague, Lesandric. The fourth amendment is identical to the amendment number two, MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189159	An identical, therefore, content with the same explanation is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189160	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189161	Thank you very much. Under these special circumstances and these events, it would be quite reasonable to send a strong message to our entrepreneurs and craftsmen, especially in order to preserve jobs in this crisis, to adopt this amendment, i.e. that this measure, which is a strong measure, is to write down the income tax obligations and the contribution over a period of 3 months, as well as the write-off of all obligations, membership fees and non-tax charges for the current year. You make this suggestion, you say we'll postpone, we'll postpone in three months. What happens in three months? It's like telling entrepreneurs you'll, we'll repay your death in three months. You are awaiting all obligations and from this health crisis, we are facing an economic crisis, we are facing huge shocks, we are facing layoffs of workers, we are facing one chaos that we must put a stop to by strong measures, and a strong measure is not delaying and prolonging the agony of entrepreneurs, fear and mistrust of entrepreneurs, and of course that will cause this crisis of layoff of workers. That is why we must send strong measures here and a strong measure is the write-off of these obligations that I have stated, not delaying and prolonging agony and mistrust and uncertainty of entrepreneurs and craftsmen, which can cause an even deeper economic and economic crisis. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189162	Thank you. Amendment number five club representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189163	Almost the same content as the previous one, therefore it is not accepted and I will repeat that these measures, as I was saying at the outset, have enabled direct and financial assistance to be most affected by this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189164	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189165	Your Honor, I cannot agree with the view that these measures are sufficient at this point, and that is your position that you keep repeating, we get hundreds of e-mails, the message means from our citizens, entrepreneurs and craftsmen that these measures will actually destroy them. The delay itself won't mean anything to them, the only thing the government has promised is a minimum wage if the employers keep the workers, but I'm asking you a question about how people with minimum pay will pay back their loans, how people who pay the subsistence will pay it, how people will live in this crisis when they can't make any extra money, and you definitely have to realize that these measures aren't enough. We're looking for a write-off means these certain givings at 3 months. a non-tax benefits, different membership fees for the whole of 2020. It's the only concrete measure you need to be aware that the government has to go into cutting public spending, yesterday is the prime minister after I asked him about these limos and the cars you were going to buy, yet he gave up on it, but it's just a drop in the sea. There is so much room for savings in cutting public spending and all that money needs to be pumped into the Croatian economy, given to entrepreneurs, given to craftsmen, given to our citizens. Please think carefully about these suggestions, no matter who proposes them, suggest them yourself, we will support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189166	Are you asking for a vote? And amendment number six of MPs Ivana Ninčević Lesandric is the same content as Amendment 5, she is not here. We're going to Amendment 7, he's the same content as Amendment 5, also representing Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189167	For the same reasons, it's not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189168	It's identical content. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189169	Thank you very much. The government of the Republic of Croatia and we all have to open our eyes together if this crisis doesn't teach us something, and obviously we won't have any results. This crisis has to show, it has shown that we have led the wrong policies both towards entrepreneurs and farmers, so these measures that we are giving means not delaying but abolishing taxes and all giving to our entrepreneurs, craftsmen, and that is especially true of our agriculture. Is that what we are, yesterday all day long and I repeat it all the time, that Croatia does not produce enough food, enough food products, we are reduced to imports because of this amendment and we are giving. We're giving amendments to be abolished by our entrepreneurs. And as for food production, gentlemen dear, we are today importing 2.5 billion euros while Slavonia could feed herself 20 million people. So we have to open our eyes. You've been running the wrong policies, this is the result of the wrong policies, unfortunately we needed a threat. At this point, we are not self-sufficient in food production while our 780,000 hectares of agricultural land are under the weeds. I expect you'll accept that. that you will bring much stronger measures and messages to our farmers, and to craftsmen, and to the masters, and not to leave them in suspense, uncertainty, and the results are now visible in this threat that we have on the crown of the virus. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189170	The 8th Amendment is a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and Let's Change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189171	Similar content as previous amendments is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189172	On behalf of the club, make a deal on who's gonna end up. ... The club's filed, so make a deal, even if it's not a big club, you can figure out who's going to answer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, fellow Vucelic, that's right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189173	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. This is how you asked us for support, the government asked for support, we gave you support, we expected you to listen to us out of opposition and to respect our demands. This is what we suggested in our amendment to write down. to free the citizens from paying taxes in the event of seriously affected situations and circumstances, you have rejected this to us and to see colleagues from other parties. The very delay in payment or the delay you propose is not enough in most cases. We've asked for debts to be written off, taxes to be written off, we won't have a minimum month now with the possibility of extending to two or three months any economic activity. People will be in a difficult situation, an inexplicable situation where they will not be able to earn or supply, especially craftsmen, entrepreneurs, OPGs that will have tens of thousands of kunas every month, and by a few dozen I mean 30, 40, 50 or more thousand kunas of debt. And you now expect all of them to take after those three months theoretically what they won't take loans with minimum interest or interest-free loans that they will have to repay for the next six months to a year. Believe me, Secretary of State, our entrepreneurs can count, they'll put the keys in the lock, they'll fire the workers as they already do. So the information we get from the field is that smaller companies are already getting rid of and fired by 40, 50 workers, people are crying at home, and that's the people in charge of these layoffs. Here I have information from yesterday, a man in a transport company got a warrant to fire 47 people, he cried the day before yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189174	Ask for a vote Thank you very much. [[Intruder Vucelic: Looking for a vote.]] Amendment number 9 of MPs Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189175	So the amendment is not accepted. As compared to the previous law, the General Tax Law is said by the Government at these times in view of the speed of movement of this already pandemic takes systematic and considering the measures that can be taken at this stage to make and repeat the objectives, thus preserving jobs and liquidity while allowing other budget users involved in activities related to the Coronal Virus situation. Let us remember what the Commission is doing and the Crisis Headquarters, as well as allowing direct financial assistance to the most affected in this situation. So, at this stage, the government has proposed a series of legal regulations that it wants to preserve liquidity jobs while maintaining the functioning of the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189176	Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189177	Thank you. I'm sorry I have to say that so far, you've turned down all the amendments that were pretty good and that one that I suggested. Economic experts from the party Change Croatia have proposed a good proposal on the write-down or non-payment of taxes, contributions and cuts during the duration of this coronary crisis. The first line of defense is employers, and you from the government need to know that they are the most important. Why? If they cannot manage liquidity, if they are not stopped from paying taxes, contributions other than VAT and a cut will come into liquidity problems. I'm sorry that I have to find out we're ready for help, we're offering advice, expert assistance, we can help because we understand the gravity of this crisis, but I wrote to the IRS to say how many unpaid taxes are in Croatia, they answered 28 billion. From that point on, every year the IRS forgives some bonds of 2 billion kuna, please. So who, I asked who, by what criteria? They say it's a tax secret. Why now that the economy is in the worst crisis since II. svt. And since the Homeland War, don't you do it this way? This state can only finance with the help of the Central Bank, but you see this crisis as the only one of those crisises that are being dealt with textbookly. It's not like that, with this crisis from Germany, America hasn't met this way so far. If you don't take urgent action towards the entrepreneurs and don't make an axe effect, we'll have a chain reaction and threaten to collapse the system and then we'll have an incredible number of unemployed and bloody problems. I call for reason, accept good arguments, don't just take matters into your own hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189178	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189179	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189180	Thank you very much. We now have the conclusion of the SDP Representatives' Club, which was proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club, so which is, you've all got it on the electronic path, please give an indication of that conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189181	So, as for previous amendments, in the context of measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the government proposes not to accept this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189182	Honorable representative of the coat of arms on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189183	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, we're uncomfortable with the government's position. To be clear, this conclusion reads: “The government is obliged to report to the Assembly every 2 weeks. the measures implemented." So the Government just needs to inform the Parliament and not even the whole but exclusively the Finance Committee. We think a measure like this is necessary. It's necessary in times of crisis when we give these laws to the government extremely great powers. For example, by law implementing the state budget, we will transfer power to the Government to change the state budget independently, which is the basic function of the representative government and even in a way that introduces the state budget of this item which the previous Parliament did not approve. And we said that we would support it but that in return we would seek as well as the measures provided for in these laws, the General Tax Law, the Tax on Profit, etc., that the Government would inform the Croatian Parliament of what it was taking. I didn't expect as much as we in the SDP club expected this kind of reaction from the government, and of course, we're going to have to discuss to each other whether if the government insists that this conclusion is not accepted, we can support this package of measures that was our initial intention. So we do not intervene in the package of measures, we give government support but in return we ask that the Government informs the Croatian Parliament about what it is doing. Minimal minimum in representative democracy. Thank you. Of course, we're asking for a vote on the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189184	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189185	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats and stop talking so we can work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.02 HOURS]] There's a lot of us and we're in the entire assembly room so we need to be quiet. Before we go to the vote, I'd like to ask you if there's a request for a break because I'd ask you to do it right now, regardless of what we have in front of the law, but this time we'll do it differently so we can do it all in one without interrupting. So now we'd be taking a break, everyone would say why they were looking for a break, and then they'd go to the vote afterwards. We go in turn, colleague Petrov, colleague Glavasevic, colleague Bernardić, colleague Vlaović, colleague Zekanovic that is five, colleague Mrak Taritaš that is 6, well, colleague Lovrinović, colleague Panenić that is 8, well, colleague Varga that is 9, well. Then let's take it in a row. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189186	Dear President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break in the club's consultation on the government's economic measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189187	My colleagues and colleagues, I beg you so now we have 16 minutes of requests, it's 2 times 8 is 16, who doesn't want to be here in the assembly and who wants to talk let him leave right now. I'm asking you to let your colleagues and colleagues tell you because it's impossible in such a big space if you're going to say anything you won't hear anything. So those who don't want to listen can be outside and be here in 16 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189188	We're looking for club consultations on economic measures related to solving the consequences of the coronary epidemic with the virus. Yesterday we offered the Government in good faith all those measures that need to be taken quickly, at present, decisively, should take place to release contributions from and to pay for the economic sector to help employees, workers stay at work. Grants should also be poured into the economic sector, rather than offering them loans or debt which they will subsequently have to repay. Also moratorium on existing loans, tax cancellations, extension of permanent season rights, extension of maternity leave from 6 to 12 months. Unfortunately, the government may not yet be aware of the consequences of the epidemic. They've turned down our proposals that we've given through the amendments. I hope it doesn't end up like that. We will also translate these amendments as legislative proposals, I hope that the Croatian Parliament will continue its work so that we can adopt these legislative proposals. The consequences will be much greater and I believe that we absolutely all need to bear the burden of this and we need to be solid with our citizens, that we need to cut irrational costs both in the state and in the county and local level, that is solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189189	I approve of Stanku. Let's go, comrade Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189190	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We are looking for a break on behalf of the club in order to warn, above all, to consult on the vote, but we would also like to warn that at this point there is a series of ambiguities among citizens about the economic measures the government has proposed. First of all, some of the measures that the Prime Minister spoke of and the Prime Minister here are not at all in the laws that we should vote on today, among other things, we believe that there are many other measures that we should implement and that the Government might propose, some of which we have talked about here. We believe that relevant institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, such as the World Bank, have actually given very good guidance on how countries should react in this crisis and what measures everything can be implemented to help economies, primarily small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And if there is room for the government to propose some other things, and since I say that today we will vote on some things or that the government has proposed some things that are not in what we are voting on today, we want to be constructive partners and we hope that the government will listen to us in the weeks that are coming and will actually allow them to be open to our proposals and to the suggestions of our citizens and citizens so that we actually get out of this situation without big scars and wounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189191	Thank you, too. The apartment will be approved. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189192	Dear President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a recess for voting consultations. Today, the president of the World Health Organization warned of the need to test the quote "You can't fight a fire with a blindfold". At this point in Croatia, 1264 people were tested and over 100 positive, which means 8% of all tested positive. Tests are expensive, we know they're expensive, but unfortunately for many, they're inaccessible. I appeal to the Civil Protection Staff and to you as President of the Parliament that we make these tests available to a greater number of populations because regardless of their price at this time we simply need to know how many people have been sick in Croatia, especially because these funds we have in the budget must be spent not on public procurement that is unnecessary, but on the safety and health of citizens and on the safety and health of the economy. At this point, we're the only country that hasn't given direct support to entrepreneurs. I appeal and call on the Croatian government to use the Presidency instrument to put it on the agenda so that our entrepreneurs get direct support. If teaching is held on-line if everything works well, and we hear it's going as planned, then there's no need for teachers to come to school anymore. Please appeal to those responsible for simply not putting teachers at unnecessary risk and the key thing, I would like to thank the parents who, in this crucial situation, have a difficult situation to care for their children, are also anxious to make it easier for them to propose our measure, that is, what we propose, to ensure the paid leave for at least one parent who takes care of their children. I appeal to you, and I hope you will respect these remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189193	Fourth request for a break from a respected colleague, Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189194	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HSS Club, we are looking for a break to consult on the vote on the proposed measures to help the economy and economy in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that the measures are too late, that it is late for these 500 workers who have been fired in the meantime, and today we get many messages and e-mails that close their facilities and their workshops and who fire workers and there will certainly be many, many more. These measures you've taken are good, necessary, but they're a camel measure. It needs more concrete measures now and today, not in 30 or 60 days. And here's a series of e-mails we got from an association of craftsmen, intellectual people who deal with intellectual services, etc. where they seek an immediate write-off to the state by example in Germany because it means nothing to them to delay the payment they will not be able to pay anyway. And when a craftsman from Djakov sends you a memo saying 26 years of order, I pay all my contributions, we work day and night, and we can't afford any payment delay, and unfortunately closing my workshop is taking away the bread from me and the wife and the worker I hire. If I've been paying my commitments properly for 26 years then it's time for him to get something back from that country now or I won't be able to produce any further or plan the future of myself and my family. And of course the time has finally come to realize that agricultural production, food production is a priority and that quality seed must be ensured this spring that it is one of the most important crops in the history of the Republic of Croatia after the Homeland War and that this seed must be aimed at ensuring that food is sufficient in the Republic. It is therefore necessary to exempt all agricultural producers of all taxes and to pay the rent on agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189195	The apartment will be approved. Now it's my colleague Zekanovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189196	Dear President of the Assembly, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns to consult on the upcoming vote. So, humanity faces one of the greatest crises in its history, it doesn't need to spread panic, but we need to be aware of this fact. One of the greatest crises in mankind's history. The Croatian government has taken some measures, measures concern entrepreneurs, and this is not about forgiveness or that entrepreneurs will not have to pay for giving to the state, but only about postponement. What happens when the crisis is over in a few months or a few years? So are we going to destroy these entrepreneurs with a bunch of government obligations? The second question is very important. What about the 1,000 new unemployed who have lost their jobs these days? In these measures proposed by the Croatian government there is nothing that would help those people who stayed on the street today and will remain for the next days. Finally, we haven't heard, we haven't discussed concrete measures if this crisis persists with projections that this crisis could take a long period of time, whether the Croatian government has, Croatia has a plan to resuscitate the effects of the long-term crisis. I will be very specific here, will we have enough food in Croatia in half a year or a year? We know that Croatia is not self-sufficient that we depend on imports. I think it is high time to start seriously thinking about the glow of Croatian oracles, to think about its own food production because otherwise we can get into a situation that really takes whether this crisis is Croatian citizens have nothing to eat. So it is time for extreme seriousness and this way I call on the Croatian government to act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189197	Let's go now, we'll have a break approved. Dear colleague of the Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189198	Thank you very much. Please pause on behalf of the GLAS Club of Honored colleagues and colleagues, the matter is actually very, very serious. This is a moment where you don't need to strengthen your muscles and you don't need to show who's stronger, who's smarter and who's more responsible, but this is a moment where we need all the brains and all the sense to the cup. This is the moment where we are sitting on the side of the opposition and we are opposition, we have shown that voice of reason, and I expect it from the ruling ones. Only together can we adopt a system of measures that will be short-term, which must be medium-term, but we must also have measures that are long-term for the day after. When that day will be after that at this moment no one knows except for one who has a glass ball. But somehow listen to us. At this point, we know that there are some things that we need to solve, among other things, for those people who are in self-insulation, who have a solution for that, which in two weeks have 2,100 kuna fees we need to increase that fee. The proposal that went to GLAS in the emergency procedure that they get compensation like they normally work for reasons because people don't choose to self-insulate themselves and become dangerous for all of us. It's equally related to parents who have to stay home, but let's not let this crown cloud our senses. Yesterday I had a chance to see that there was going to be an artisan, so someone who was found to have a crown will get sick in a 100% fee, who's going to artificially, who's going to be skillful at the moment? Let us not make unreasonable decisions, make reasonable decisions, and for reasonable decisions, we all need the brains. We've all got e-mails and everyone's e-mails and they're calling people who pull their hair and they say, the day after, there won't be one for us if we can't live with it, will we? The task is that they don't fail. Therefore the next set of measures not prolonging but liberating. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189199	Now it's my dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović's turn, please. Excuse me, colleague Lovrinović, why are you coming here? ... Yes, you can, but it would be a good idea to make a deal, not to have a cowboy thing like this, here you go, here you go. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189200	Your Honor, I see a little bit of my session management is going a little harder, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189201	No, no, it's good session management, but don't make incidents and draw attention to yourself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189202	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189204	So I didn't create this incident and stop please... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189205	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189206	And why are you saying I'm the one making the incidents? So I got off the gallery and I'm waiting for them to tell me where I'm going to talk, you're turning into an incident.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189207	Here you go, we don't have to get out now, we don't have to clean up, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189208	Okay. This concerns me, you see, that the way to manage this crisis can turn in another direction. I'm looking for a break in front of the Representatives' Club. Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to consult on the vote. Yesterday's package of measures says that this government is unfortunately not aware of the gravity of the situation. We want help, I offered three amendments today, very practical, concrete, nothing adopted. If she is not aware of the gravity of the situation, she could not take the good measures that would work. In that sense, we need to save, now save those who are weakest. They're workers who'll be out of a job. We estimate, our experts, that between 100,000 and 200,000 people will be out of a job. In the coming days, virus spread data will overshadow the data on the pandemic of unemployment and indifference. In this regard, we ask that entrepreneurs be deprived of all taxes other than VAT as long as the crisis takes place, that workers who are on the bureau are fired, that they be paid by a minimumer from the state budget, rather than delayed, to introduce a moratorium on blockades, on performances and dissections. And the key institution that can solve this problem is the CNB. She is the only one with unlimited indifference, she must offer to the economy and banks loans unlimited by 0% in order to ensure liquidity. However, watch cynicism, yesterday the governor of the same bank declares that it is a shame that we did not accept EURO and enter the Eurozone because we would have unlimited access to liquidity. We now have to have unlimited access to liquidity in kunas, that any central bank can do and appeal to the government to listen and apply good proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189209	The apartment will be approved. Here you go, colleague Panenic, it's your turn now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189210	Thank you very much. In the name of the Club of Independent Youth List, we are looking for a break to discuss actually what was at the government today, and that at the time when we are here talking about a whole package of measures that should be relaxed and facilitated the situation, where support should be provided, the government today introduced excise duties with which it plans, means an additional impact on retail prices. We can discuss now how appropriate they are or someone will say maybe not, but definitely that at this point the introduction of excise duties on any product, the increase in actually excise duty will only increase the price spiral and we will have one negative effect and I think it is in the spirit of the measures that we are planning to support today on providing special support to the economy, something that is actually the opposite and we are having a negative impact on it. The only thing that comes to filling the state budget, and the question is whether it will purposely be directed towards the economy that we should ultimately provide maximum assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189211	Thank you. Dear colleague Varga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189212	Thank you, Mr. President. Uh, on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party, I'm looking for a break. In fact, it should be pointed out that, with the support of all government measures taken to help the economy and what was said about the price control and role of the state inspectorate, the fact that no one controls the prices of sanitary material and medicines that are the subject of the procurement of health institutions has passed. And according to that information I have from the field and especially for, since I'm the president of the Board of Directors of the City Emergency Medical Service, I appreciate it. Protection masks have increased 600 times, the current price is about 6.500,00 kn for a box of masks, and the mask to be used correctly must be changed every 3 hours by a healthcare professional or one who is in contact with patients. Because of these failures, it happens that family medicine doctors have started to be positive, a significant number of citizens remain without their family doctor’s health care. Dentologists are particularly exposed, and we particularly know the great burden of the hospital health system and I call on the government and coalition partners to consider suspending certain parts of the Public Procurement Act since much of the Sanitary material is subject to import. We need to give support to domestic producers that in this situation, in order to charge state goods reserves, which, in order to get directly into health care institutions in this situation, I think we need to be more sensitive to the health system than we've ever seen before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189213	The apartment will be approved. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189214	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am also looking for a break for further consultations on the adoption and support of these laws. First of all, I call for tolerance, respect, a little more trust with everything the crisis headquarters does and what the government of the Republic of Croatia does. Listening to some colleagues’ statements, they feel that they have not read these 19 laws that we will later adopt. In fact, many of the measures I've heard the government should propose are part of these 19 laws. If the government had the knowledge and ability to in the past 3.5 years. stabilises the Croatian financial system, the Croatian economic system then gives her confidence that in these serious and difficult moments she will also know how to find the right measures to help citizens and all our entrepreneurs. The requirement to forgive the payment of taxes and contributions immediately in the beginning is not necessary because if someone has received a delay for three months then that means that there is no cost for him for the next three months, they will not have to pay those obligations, and depending on the development of the situation clearly that there may be a delay in all other and new measures. This set of measures, which will be prescribed by the adoption of laws and by those which will be adopted through a number of regulations and regulations of ministers, governments and individual ministers, will build on everything that we currently hold necessary and which we could not see at this time. On the other hand, what is important is to say, how much information I have, on Monday, is already in effect a regulation that will allow all employers affected by this severe crisis over the Coronal Virus so that they can access and already file a minimum wage payment request as prescribed by the law itself. Therefore, a little more trust will be much better for everyone and thus send a message of unity to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189215	Thank you. You're the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189216	Thank you, Mr. President. Please pause on behalf of the HNS Club to consult on this and on further measures. In fact, in the situation in which we are, we must be aware that life cannot stop completely. We need to take measures to protect those who work, who will work and those who need to work. We have adopted measures for those who must not, to ban the spread of potential contagion, public gatherings, etc., but further employers should if we want to keep such an economy working on, and we need to check in what conditions people continue to work on. In one company that has 50, 100 workers so it doesn't matter, it's not a public gathering, but if there's 10 in one room, then we haven't done anything, and yet we can't all stop living and wait for this to go away. As far as the measures are concerned, we had a framework, I'm glad to hear that Monday will know exactly who he's going to refer to, who are employers with difficulties, practically all of them, but I want us to think about future measures because surely the state needs to play a bigger role there, not share money, but allow employers to earn, to start all those planned investment maintenance, to become more flexible towards public procurement, and to be a business generator for our employers. And let's also really think about the moratorium for loans to citizens and employers, not to welcome them after three months of three unpaids, but only to extend the deadline for those three months, and the cost of interkalating interest to bear the state. So that would be something in the next step, but I believe that the state can, first of all, run and give jobs to people, not just share money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-18-0.u189217	Thank you. Here's a proposal from the SDP Representatives' Club to get on with the work right now, so I see that one part of the MPs is missing. I'm asking you to turn on the bell and call for emergency agents to come to the bench at 12:30, then we'll vote, that's in three minutes. My colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can start voting. My colleagues and colleagues, please. So before we start just a few informations, we'll vote on the amendments manually, so I'll assess whether it's necessary if there's an equal number to vote electronically, if I see that it's clear that there's an insufficient number of amendments then I'll say that you didn't get the required number of votes, and we'll vote so you who are in the benches are pushing and watching those who are next to you who are up at the galleries, look at them. So I'm going to ask first who's against it then you press the one who's against it and if any of your other calls for whom you're in charge press his button, then refrain and eventually who's in favour. We can't go any different because we'd be confused then. Those who aren't here can't, only those who are at the galleries. Let's go, let's go, let's get serious, and please just don't make too much noise because it's very demanding to run this thing right now. Final proposal of the Law supplementing the general tax law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 861. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, representative Ivan Lovrinović, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, representative of Miro Bulj and the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall, and we change Croatia. The review of the amendments was sent to you by electronic means, and we held the statement earlier in the session. We will now hold a vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept, so we vote manually. First, the SDP representative club is not accepted by the government. Please, let's vote who's in. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are going to Amendment 2 of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, which is identical with Amendments 3 and 4 of MPs Ivana Ninčević Lesandric and Representative Mira Bulja. Please, let's vote. The government doesn't accept them. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are going to Amendment 5 of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, which is identical with Amendments 6 and 7 of MPs Ivana Ninčević Lesandric and representatives of Mira Bulja, the government does not accept them. Please, let's vote. Who's in? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 8. The Live Wall Representatives Club and Change Croatian Government does not accept, so please let us vote. Who's in? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 9 of MP Ivan Lovrinovic, the government does not accept it, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Therefore, we will now move to a vote on the final proposal for a law supplementing the General Tax Law. So first I ask you, who are you down there, who are against it, to press against it, and ask you, upstairs, is anyone against it? Then squeeze, okay. Who's restrained? Who's in? So you're pressing on your behalf and on behalf of those who are your neighbors upstairs. Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 125 for and 1 against the law on the completion of the General Tax Code is passed.
