ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u5423	Next final debate, presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, distinguished representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u5424	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Vukovar in 2001 31.670, Vukovar 2011. 27.683 minus 3,987, Ilock 2011 8.351, Ilock 2011. 6,767 minus 1,584, Parish, 2001. 13 775, Parish 2011 12 090, -1 685; Slavonski Brod 2001 64 612, Slavonski Brod 2011. 59 141, -5 471. No, this isn't a statistical category, these numbers have their own name and last name. Behind each of these numbers are our locals, our fellow citizens, who, unfortunately, are getting smaller and smaller from day to day. The reason for this is a catastrophic demographic picture of Croatia for the past 30 years, a national negligent about demographic restoration, as well as leaving, primarily young families in Western European countries. As early as March this year, the prime minister announced a special encouraging measure to return Croats where he said we would financially support our fellow citizens to return to Croatia. Today, here, seven months later, we haven't seen that measure yet, and it's clear to me that in the meantime the crown crisis has come, that state finances are much weaker than seven months ago, but I hope that in the 2021 budget we will have enough funds for the demographic restoration of the Republic of Croatia and if there are not, and there must be, just as Croatian sovereigns will give a number of amendments precisely in this direction because this is the topic no. 1 in Croatia. Despite all this, however, it is also important to change existing laws that unfortunately do not send any, i.e. Mostly a bad picture of Croatian returnees. A few days ago, I received a return family in Vukovar. It's about a young family who has four children. Four underage children who returned to Vukovar. After 5 years of staying in the Republic of Germany. Do you know what winnings that make for the city of Vukovar? What's that win for the Republic of Croatia? And what rights do they have? Almost nothing. Namely, they filed a claim for the right to a child's allowance. In their official solution to HZMO, they were also denied the same right, and this is exactly what is written. Since the established average monthly income per household member exceeds 70% of the budget base, the applicant shall not be granted the right to pay child allowance under the provision of Article. 16th wheel. One of this law. A.k.a. 16th wheel. 1. this law states that the total income achieved in the previous calendar year per household member does not exceed 70% of the budget base. The problem here is that their income was taken here which they received in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany, which is far higher than the average income in the Republic of Germany. Right now, this same mother is unemployed and doesn't have the right to a child's allowance. They also have no right to maternity benefits despite the four-year-olds because under the existing Law on maternity and parental support, they have no right because at a given time the mother had no health insurance of the Republic of Croatia, which she could not because she lived in the area of R. Germany when the child was born and what also, must have an uninterrupted residence or permanent stay in Croatia for at least 3 years. What image of these laws do we send to our returnees? We send young families who, despite everything, want to return to the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary to urgently move towards changes and additions to these laws, as well as additional encouraging demographic measures because every new child, a newborn child, has no price, every child who returns to Croatia has no price, and that is why we all have to fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u5527	The following statement of view on behalf of the Party's Representatives Club with the name and name, Smart and GLAS, the distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u5528	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, one, two, three, four, five of us. Today I'm going to use these five minutes of free speech to talk about the subject of injustice and the double standards that destroy our society. The main reason for the mass escape from Croatia is hopelessness caused by corruption, injustice, mistrust in institutions and double standards. As we have recently pointed out and were brutally offended, there are now two Croatians. One Croatia whose citizens must follow laws, obey rules and recommendations, pay taxes and countless charges or will be punished and sanctioned. Another Croatia is a country of untouchable elites for which no laws and rules apply. For years, we have watched famous quasi entrepreneurs muddy honest and valuable entrepreneurs and members of these families of these quasi entrepreneurs unpunished on roads, killing people, eventually mocking citizens and justice with freedom. For years, we have been hearing about quass entrepreneurs taking taxpayers' money to support a corrupt octopus called HDZ and partners. One of those partners comes from a town that I come from and I love indescribably. Surely you have heard of an eternal partner of HDZ and SDP who has held my city hostage for almost a decade of his private interests. Mr. Turtle Keruma. Although you may have, we haven't forgotten a bunch of our fellow citizens who owe him over a billion and 700 million kuna. I know that hundreds, perhaps thousands of unfortunate fates, are an acceptable price for the authorities in Split and Split-Dalmatia County, but not for us. And so this way I ask Minister Maric Prime Minister Plenkovic, but also a bunch of different inspectors whose names we learn on a daily basis after writing a dragon's sentence for some ridiculous offense or in life a dangerous action intercepting the unfortunate old man who sells Christmas decorations to help a sick woman. I ask you, are you ashamed that your coalition partner, after remaining more than a billion kunas, is now buying back his property for a fraction of the value? Minister Maric reads any of the IRS newspapers and portals? I'm asking if this isn't exclusive, the information's been made public recently, so isn't there anyone who would ask, where does a man owe a billion and 700 million kuna, millions to whom he buys his property? It buys first-row mortgages from financial institutions that previously credited its trading chain, which are enrolled in real estate and failed companies and other family companies, thus taking over business premises in executive procedures. I know that all inspectors in Croatia are more busy looking for kuna in the cash register of an unfortunate catering facility or preparing raids and desserts on poor sellers who will try to fill their home budget in holiday time by selling some Christmas decoration. I know we've got some serious criminals who'll write a little letter instead of a big one in the account. Is there any chance that people that taxpayers pay a lot of money and deal with suspicious transactions by your coalition partner? How many Dragan Kovacevic with obvious disproportionate income and property walk our streets? Is it time to break off with double criteria and let the state lets honest citizens and entrepreneurs alone, and finally tackles the real criminals? This crisis is our chance to start building a better and fairer society. A large number of entrepreneurs and citizens are doing exactly that. A question for the prime minister, for ministers, but also for the chief state inspector, will you join them or prepare a new terror as well as during quarantine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u5692	The next statement is on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, distinguished representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u5693	A few days ago, it was annual that my grandfather Peter, from our house in Vukovar, was taken in an unknown direction by a group of our neighbours of Serbian nationality, armed in the company of a few unknown men also armed. Since then, by the end of 2015, my grandfather has lost every lead. That morning the Assistant Minister of Missing Persons called me and asked me to get to him for a short while, there was nothing in his tone that would warn me of what was waiting for me. Bojan, we found your kids. 5 words carefully and almost gently spoken that turn the world upside down. The years of searching for my grandfather were long, and to be honest, we had lost hope of ever finding out what fate had come upon him. A man faced with the insolence of the passing of time sometimes has to reconcile that some truths, even some of those who are thirsty like someone lost in the desert will remain hidden forever, and that is hard, because the flock of those 5 words of finding the truth was greater for me. Then it was less important to me who killed him, even though it was more or less known, and it was much more important to bring him back to our family, to give him back the dignity that was taken from him, we did. His remains today lie beside the remains of his son. I wish my grandfather could have gotten justice besides dignity. Justice in a way that his torturers and murderers ended up in court and that instead of death, she found them in prison. However, justice is rarely served at least when war crimes are at stake. Civil war victims don't generally know justice, there's little process for war crimes and even less judgments. And what's even worse is those who get convicted of war crimes usually after a while are rehabilitated at least morally. Where is the justice of Sljivancanin sitting in the governing body of the political party Alexander Vukic, whom he calls a friend? Where is justice in the fact that Vojislav Seselj is free to walk in Serbia all the time crying and threatening his victims and their loved ones? Where is justice in the fact that Tomislav Mercep is not in prison even though he has been convicted with power? Where is justice in the fact that Dario Kordic is going through Croatia and preaching about faith, and he is silent about the crime he was convicted of while some right politicians and some bishops on the social network boast about the photographs with him. What would you do if you were in the position of these people's victims? How would you feel? The issue of war crimes and war criminals isn't just a question of law, it's a question of morality and society. When we share time with the number of victims in the Ovcara, we get that the Sljivancan spent a little more than two months in prison for each killed, two months that's the price of human life if we look at the right, it's clear that there's no justice here. As a society, we have to realize that it's not enough for war criminals to carry out their prison sentences and then pretend like nothing ever happened. Their condemnation must be both moral and social, and it must be profound, and we must understand that by silent abolization of ours, we can legitimateize theirs silently and thus equate our victims with their aggressors. That's how we deny and disrespect victims. As a society, we don't know what to do with war criminals after they've served the sentences that we're all aware are meaningless and then we're bringing them back to social life like they belong there, and it's not. In a situation like this, punishment loses meaning because the suitability and proportionality of punishment are an important component of justice, inappropriate and disproportionate punishment, lack of adequate social and moral relations with war criminals produce new injustices, open new wounds and do not allow us to leave history and build a peaceful and good future for all of our people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u5738	The next statement of view is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u5739	On the next day, we mark World Mental Health Day. This year, the slogan under which it is marked is “Mental health for increasing investment, greater availability,” stressing the need for availability of mental health services for everyone and everywhere, regardless of the economic conditions that one has or the place of residence. Given the unremembered circumstances caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, the whole world is more than ever focused on physical but especially mental health. Faced with uncertainty, fear, isolation, large and changed demands of family, parent and professional life, potential personal and professional losses, the risk of infection and infecting others has increased the state of chronic stress, which negatively reflects individual mental health, but also the whole social community. Everyday life has seen changes at almost all levels and adaptation to emerging circumstances has become crucial in preserving mental health. Mental health is part of our overall health and is invaluable especially when we talk about human beings in its uniqueness. The concern of mental health is therefore never complete or sufficient, mainly because we witness a daily increase in the incidence of mental disorders that we generally talk about as a public health problem. In particular, we are referring to a large number of stress related disorders, which are the product of the lifestyle and the discrepancies of our original needs and possibilities with the demands of everyday life. The concern of mental health is not exclusively about the promotion of mental health in terms of awareness of its existence and above all its importance. We believe that this type of concern is extremely important and is mainly through various public health actions that are potentiating knowledge of healthy ways of behaviour, life and traffic, which are a stockpile of good mental health. Care about mental health is also concerned about preventing the development of mental disorders as well as caring about the protection of people with mental disorders. In this sense, I can point out that in the hospital where I work, the Vrapce Hospital has spent almost a century and a half caring about the protection and improvement of health, but also the situation of people with mental disorders. The Republic of Croatia is a country with a long tradition in the field of public health protection and with contributions important to global scales. The first Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders in the Republic of Croatia was adopted in 1997 in June 2014 by a new law that came into force in early 2015 and regulates the legal framework for hospital treatment on a voluntary and forced basis by stressing informed consent, the advantage of least restrictive treatment. Some areas of protection of mental health and the rights of persons with mental disorders are covered by many other valid laws. A large number of national policies, strategies and plans directly or less directly affect the area of protection of mental health. Marking tomorrow's marking of World Health of Mental Health is also an occasion for me to announce the National Strategy for the Development of Mental Health for the period from 2020 to 2030, at the end of this month the strategy goes to e- Consultation. Some organisations dealing with rights of persons with mental disorders have reacted and in some ways hasten the adoption of a national strategy because without a national strategy, we cannot draw up action plans for the type of improvement of mental health, prevention of early detection, and a national strategy will allow us to monitor and improve the quality of implementation of regulations in the field of mental health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u5740	Thank you. This concludes today's debate, we continue the session on Wednesday, October 14, at 9:30 p.m. by taking the club's position. Thank you very much. Have a good day. Session interrupted at 14.22 p.m. Now we have a position on behalf of the clubs. First respected representative, Karolina Vidovic Kristo, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. She's gone. The next is Andreja, the distinguished representative Andreja Maric, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u5799	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I am going to speak on a subject that is unfortunately still very current, and this is an epidemiological situation, i.e. a covid pandemic. Unfortunately, the numbers are still high, day before yesterday, 363 patients, yesterday's record 542 patients, today 457. We care that citizens take seriously that the coronary virus is not fiction, that it does not choose who gets sick or dies. I was already speaking with this place that the national headquarters at the beginning of the pandemic had broad support for citizens and professions. But when it started with double standards, politicizing, including members of headquarters directly in the pre-election campaign, support decreased significantly. We warned that communication and preparation of certain measures by the headquarters were not well done and presented regardless of the later decision of the Constitutional Court, we warned not out of malice but precisely to reduce the number of infected. Today, we know more about the virus than 6 to 7 months ago, many scientists and experts are actively working to clarify the formation of the infection, the means of transfer, prevention, the discovery of the vaccine. And it is saddened that there are still citizens, obviously smarter than all scientists and doctors after years and years of schooling and work, even some politicians who do not adhere to epidemiological measures and thus directly endanger their health, the health of nearby and the environment, or the whole of Croatia, even beyond. Let us remember a recent example of the book presentation in Popovaca, a home for older people who work illegally, and we only learn this information when the virus has penetrated a home that is 5 years old. Radio in illegal. Where's the state? Where's work and business control? This opens up a new problem that we have also warned as a SDP and we will continue to warn, which is the introduction of order into the social care system. Health care professionals in some hospitals are warned by the administration that unless they comply with epidemiological measures, they are threatened with an extraordinary dismissal, and what about irresponsible politicians, prominent public figures and citizens? Epidemiologists rightly complain that they're having a hard time revealing certain contacts because people are keeping in touch with who they were in contact with. Why? Mostly because they fear for the workplace and because their self-insulation intakes are much smaller. The state, or government, will have to change the way it is financed. In order not to make the opposition just critical, we in the SDP offer concrete proposals for a number of other topics, even now. We advise that the national headquarters in cooperation with the profession, so epidemiologists, infectologists, pulmologists, etc. in a wider range of experts, they communicate with the public on the subject of epidemic, especially now that measures are planned to be tightened. Here's an example: record educational contributions, not too long duration, in which several experts, regardless of political views, will explain any newer knowledge of the coronary virus, so that they can be understood by an average citizen. The second group should state what it is and when it is important to wear protective masks and how to wear them properly because many still do it wrong. Third group, why adhere to epidemiological measures, which and where? The fourth why it is important to vaccinate against the flu, etc. And you repeat these emissions or press releases, local and national, and we call on the media to cooperate in this regard. And once again, the national headquarters needs to have legitimacy and present its work here in the assembly. It must also continue to have full responsibility in the adoption of measures and local headquarters must be operatives, flexible in adapting measures to the current epidemiological situation. The health of the nation is number one, the supersede issue, it must be clear to everyone, and if it is with the citizens and the profession of more clear communication we believe there will be fewer infected. In front of us is an uncertain autumn and winter, we call on our fellow citizens to be aware, to respect the work so far and knowledge of experts and scientists and to adhere to epidemiological measures because only by prevention, education, joint action and responsibility of each of us, thus and without the need for repression will we overcome this pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u5800	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8733	9:30, we can start working. Good afternoon, everyone. The item on the agenda is today: - The report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2019 is the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities on the basis of Article 17. The Attorney General Act or the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, Pardons, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, I apologize, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership, and the Government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant of the report, Ms Anka Slonjak, attorney for persons with disabilities, want to give an additional explanation? Yes, I see, you have your word. I'd like a little technique to get this extra microphone working. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8734	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, I warmly welcome all of you together on behalf of the Ombudsman's office, and I thank you for the opportunity and opportunity to present the work of the Ombudsman for 2019. By meeting the strategic goals that we outlined 10 years ago in 2018, we opened the district office in Osijek, so in 2019 we marked his first anniversary of work. In 2019 we opened a regional office in Split and given the pandemic of the coronary virus the delay is for the opening of the region office in Rijeka for 2021. I must say that persons with disabilities because of this very opening of all these district offices are extremely pleased and we hope that this work will indeed contribute to the opening of space to what is most important, which is the protection of persons with disabilities in the entire Republic of Croatia. In the register of people with disabilities today we have over 490,000 people of various damages, different causes, different ages that each of them is exercising certain rights from the system, different systems. Of that number, it's almost 40% more than 40% of women, and something about, less than 60% is men with disabilities. As far as education is concerned, I have to say that it's a very low education structure and almost 68% of them don't have a primary school at all, only has a primary school or it's unfinished. 23% of them have medium professional equipment, 6.5 have high professional or higher, while 2% have completed education in special institutions. As for complaints addressed to the Ombudsman in 2019, we received a little more than 2,000 citizens, 12% higher than 2018. It was most addressed in the field of social care, then in the area of consultation in general on employment and labour rights, the accessibility of pension insurance and education. By considering the complaints received, we had 3,000 over 3,000 actions in which I would particularly highlight the individual and general recommendations that we have sent to units of local and regional self-government, the competent ministries and other legal persons. During our e-consultation, we have sent over 42 proposals to amend legal and sublegal acts, as well as direct opinions, 45 to the competent authorities. We participated actively and proactively in various events throughout Croatia, but also in international activities since we are part of certain anti-discrimination networks and then a network related to the protection of human rights, so there was one whole series of international activities. We participated in over 200 events, organized and participated over 140 professional and working meetings, hosted over 200 media, etc. We believe that quality shifts occurred in 2019, but we believe that these shifts are minor because there are many groups of people with disabilities where there are no solutions to the system. Of those who have intellectual-mental damage, a person with autism, related to parents who are disabled, then to children with disabilities at the earliest age of life. Despite the government's promises during the past term and the assurances that changes in legislation will be made specifically related to primary rights for persons with disabilities, we still testify today that the Law on an Inclusive Supplement, the Law on a Personal Assistant is not included in the plan legislative for the '20s, but neither is the legislative plan for the '21st. A year. A reasonable adjustment which is fundamental to all types of adjustment for persons with disabilities is still not defined in legislative solutions in various areas and the denial of reasonable adjustment remains a fundamental obstacle to the achievement of the equality of persons with disabilities in access to rights and services. With regard to independent life and life in the community, it is necessary to ensure that people with disabilities can have a lot of involvement in the life of the community and create preconditions, however, we still have one great shortage of mobility, accessibility, different available and accessible services, personal assistance, access to work and employment, material existence, as well as space for housing. It also concerns the fact that, in the process of this institutionalisation that we have been talking about for years, we haven't achieved a draft shift in the last five years. No new state home has been transformed into a community service centre, while fostering for adults is still considered an extra-institutional service. In the achievement of social rights still with the criterion of disability and the need for support are relevant for the level and scope of these rights and other criteria such as the cause of disability and income or property censorship, and for legislative solutions are often an obstacle to the isolation of a person as well as to its independent life. The education system is generally not yet sufficiently adapted, accessible and acceptable for all children, students and students with disabilities. We see the slightest shifts in strengthening the competence and empowerment of teachers to implement inclusive education. This requires that all schools in Croatia have a team of professional associates and that all teachers receive the necessary training to work with students with developmental difficulties. The support of teaching assistants and communication media is regulated by the Regulation and the current school year has more than 4,000 assistants and the future of this form of support needs to be reconsidered by respecting the fact that this is not the only form of support, nor is it the only guarantee of quality educational inclusion. We are in favour of understanding that in order to achieve inclusive education, we need to change the entire education culture, and at a practical level if we are focused on inclusive education and the full opening of the school to every child, we need to consider changing the school staff and strengthening it for employees who can support the different needs of children in the educational process, such as workers for care, medical staff, co-workers in the follow-up. The Ministry of Education has not even launched activities to establish an inclusive support centre, mobile teams, transform education institutions with specific programmes into competence centres to support the regular education system in the implementation of inclusive education which is targeted by the science and education strategy as well as the national strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities. Education in social care institutions is not considered segregation, and education in general is not yet sufficiently adapted, accessible and acceptable, as I said for all those children. For many years, we have been warning that failure to provide adequate professional support to children with developmental difficulties in terms of early promotion of development is a failure to comply with the provisions of the Convention, but it also represents discrimination against children based on health conditions. In addition to the ongoing problem of diagnostics and professional support of children with autistic spectrum difficulties, complaints about the lack of availability of different services to support families or to reduce the intensity of rehabilitation services for children and young people with different developmental difficulties. For many years, the Ombudsman received complaints from parents of children with developmental difficulties from different parts of Croatia due to lack of rehabilitation service providers and lack of capacity for existing service providers, reduction of rehabilitation procedures, etc. The problem of difficult employment of additional professional staff necessary to provide the necessary services for pre-school children since the various intervention of psychosocial support and stay of the necessary services is seen by almost all social care institutions, and not by state providers of these services, indicating a discrepancy between the minimum number of employees required under the Regulation on minimum conditions for providing social services, as well as real needs on the ground. As one of the major causes of difficulty, difficulties are highlighted in finding professional workers, especially educational rehabilitators and logos. As for the questions of people with autism, we see that there is still a lack of quality care system. Children with autistic spectrum disorders in the education system are the most common candidates for changing forms of education in the direction of special class departments and specific programmes. Even more difficult is the situation in high school education and professional orientation procedures. Adults with autism do not have sufficient capacity and their tailored independent life programmes. Apartment with support and customized support services. As I said, the area of child rights violations and discrimination against children with developmental difficulties requires faster action of state institutions, cooperation of professional institutions and raising awareness of the responsibility we have towards children and in protecting their rights. As far as healthcare is concerned, complaints were mostly about the availability of health services, sanitary transport, the procurement of orthopaedic aids that were not on the list of aids, the conduct of physical therapy and home care. During 2019, we conducted a survey on the occurrence of decubital wounds. For years we have received complaints from individuals, as well as from persons with disabilities who talk about problems related to the seriousness of multiple consequences of the formation of decubital wounds. So we sent a survey of 47 of them to 67 medical institutions. We examined the state of equipment, education, investment in the purchase of personnel, protocols, etc. What we have received from health institutions, the results show concern and actually show how much health care institutions themselves are considering and have also made concrete suggestions and warned about the development of the problem. We have therefore decided and proposed to the Legislative Committee to organise a thematic session on this subject this year. In 2019, we worked, as well as under the powers of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, as well as in the Law of Persons with Mental Disturbation. As regards the fight against discrimination in 2019 of the 160 cases received, in 69 we identified suspicion of discrimination. The largest number concerned discrimination in general, then access to goods and services, as well as employment and work. Some of the recommendations we made, given that every year we have a certain follow-up to the implementation of the Convention in the Republic of Croatia, which is 2015. The Republic of Croatia received a recommendation from the UN Committee which was to be carried out or implemented in the past 5 years, this year, in early '20. We gave the report... also, the UN Committee, in which we stressed, among other things, that one of the most significant discrimination in Croatia concerns precisely the rights of disability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because they are not equal and should be independent of the type and cause of disability. What is additional material rights which have the character of compensation should be paid from specific sources clearly separated from disability benefits. As far as mental health is concerned, I want to stress the problem of the absence of a system of protection of mental health in the community, which also points to a longer period of years. According to our findings, despite the recommendations of the World Health Organization and the obligations made by Croatia by ratification of international documents other than at project level, no concrete measures have been taken to transform the existing system of concern for persons with psychosocial difficulties still based on hospital treatment. The National Strategy for the Protection of Mental Health has not yet been adopted, although the previous one expired in 2016 and a report on its implementation has never been adopted. By providing only institutional care during and after treatment, you cannot recover people with mental health disorders, leading to new hospitalisations, the use of different forms of unsatisfactory treatment and ultimately disability. We therefore consider it necessary to adopt a new national strategy based on the commitments undertaken to ensure the protection of mental health in the community, which includes different forms of prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and social inclusion for people with psychosocial difficulties. It is necessary to systematically monitor the respect for the rights of persons with mental disorders in psychiatric hospitals, and to sanction infringements with the aim of raising awareness of hospital staff on patients' rights and stopping illegal treatment. On the basis of a tour of psychiatric hospitals in Ugljan and Rab, and related to hospitalization, I point out that there is still a problem of accommodation after the completion of the treatment and further cooperation of institutions in solving the problem is needed. Accommodation of persons with disabilities in medical institutions, without the need for hospital medical treatment, not only burdens the health budget, but represents a serious violation of the rights of persons with disabilities who spend their lives in the environment of a hospital institution. When we talk about employment in a working age, we have 211 thousand in Croatia that could, in some ways, become involved in the world of work. However, only 11 528 were employed long-term. 64,925 people we have who are in disability pensions because of their professional incompetence to work, and only 5,078 were working relationships. These people are receiving a 1949 kuna pension today. When we talk about pension insurance, the most complaints were about the longevity of the pension process. When we talk about issues of non-compliance with regulations and employment opportunities, we must stress that something very important, which is a professional rehabilitation, especially a system of pension and health insurance which at the moment prevents the development and implementation of a new model of professional rehabilitation that is implemented in accordance with the rules on professional... employment of persons with disabilities, whose successful implementation is a key prerequisite for employment and long-term retention of persons with disabilities on the labour market, as well as the prevention of their unfounded and premature retirement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about civil society organisations, they are indeed a significant number in the Republic of Croatia, but their question is important, their work is important because they and many of them provide primary needs for people with disabilities throughout Croatia. Those who deal with these issues are seen to be weakened by the advocacy service, therefore the role. Why? Because they became service providers or extended hand to the state. Persons with disabilities are taking part in the preparation of legislative solutions through the government's committees for people with disabilities. However, these working groups and informal meetings have the impression that only there are purely fictitious and that often their role is not respected at all or only formal. As a society, we have become aware that it is not the damage of a person that makes it impossible for a person to participate in activities, but it is obstacles in our environment. However, despite the rules adopted, no significant changes were made. Many public authorities and institutions remain inaccessible, which is architectural, orientation, communication, but also other private-owned legal entities. Accessibility is one of the five areas most often complained about by people with disabilities. In view of the overall problem of accessibility, in particular the space of public authorities whose disabled persons must be approached periodically for the real problem of non-accessibility of their services is mainly related to the age of buildings in which these bodies are situated, which is why very often, as an excuse for making adjustments, they hear that because the old building is too old or culturally good, cultural heritage, etc., and often do not get the consent of the conservators concerned. We note and point out that the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination is considered to be discrimination and the denial of reasonable adaptation, i.e. in these cases the enjoyment of fundamental human rights, the use of publicly available resources, participation in public and social life, and access to the workplace and the proper working conditions. When we talk about housing, more people with disabilities complained about the inability to exercise the right to uninterrupted access to their own housing space, and most of the time in cases of lack of elevators in multiple residential buildings. Through examples we have certainly tried to determine and raise the awareness and empathy of society, because very often right now it is the roommates, co-owners and similar to those who block at all so that people with disabilities can make adjustments so that they can reach their own home. On road transport, they complained about the inappropriate public transport of disabled persons, often due to the problem of not ensuring the right to release tolls. There were also problems related to transport, because in many areas in Croatia, there is unfortunately no secure public-accommodated transport, especially between the city and the county. I would therefore also point out that, given that the Republic of Croatia has repeatedly stressed the importance of tourist destination, tourism, I must say that there are environments in Croatia and tourist communities that have implemented in practice the measures and activities that we have sent as a guardianship in our recommendations over the past years in order to ensure all those elements that are important to ensure that accessible tourism for people with disabilities is made available. However, despite the fact that institutions have recognised their obligation legislatively, we still have a situation where there are many obstacles where people with disabilities cannot and must indeed choose where they will be in Croatia for summer, winter and so on. Finally, we have opinions, and as is evident through the 2015 work reports, that there has been no real focus over the past period on end-users and needs, that essential solutions establish a long-term sustainable system of protection, therefore the model of human rights is not fully understood or implemented legislation in public policies, so that persons with disabilities remain victims of inequality without the expectation of their contribution to society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8735	Thank you very much, Mr. Slunsek, but I'm afraid time is up, but you have several replicas. The first replica has a Mrs. Crescent. Grman Kizzwat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8736	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I have a question for a disabled person. So it's a person with disabilities who belongs to a group of those you listed 6.5% of people with high professional equipment who are involved in the competition when people with disabilities appear in the competition. There are several illogicalities when you go to call on, so the competition is like this, candidates who are calling for the right advantages in employment in accordance with Article. Nine. The Professional Rehabilitation Act of Persons with Disabilities, with the application of a public tender, is also required to provide evidence of compliance with the required conditions, with the solution for the established disability or other public disability correction on the basis of which a person can be entered in the register of persons with disabilities, and the evidence from which the employment relationship with the last employer has ceased. So the question is that you stated that the very low share of people with disabilities is very low and that the end of employment comes down to the good will of the employer, do you find that discriminatory? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8737	Thank you very much, ma'am. Elephant, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8738	So what is in our interest is certainly greater employment of persons with disabilities and precisely the right advantages in employment continued by actually introducing the possibility of persons with disabilities to apply adequate evidence, at the same time to call on this right, but at the same time that the employer must actually provide in that adjustment of the test in fact all the conditions required by persons with disabilities depending on the adjustments that it needs to make in order for it to be tested under the same conditions as the person without disability. What's also a problem, what's to say, if two people mean they have a person, one person is with, and the other without disability, and the same number of points on the final test, the ones that have the meaning of a person with disabilities on equal terms have the right advantage. In some ways, there is a problem because very often in interviews, this person with disabilities is led to the situation of deciding for those who are not disabled. Here we have the largest number of problems and related also to this one. the adjustment for the test. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8739	Mr. Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8740	Your Honorary Attorney, first of all, I would like to commend your dedicated and diligent work on combating persons with disabilities, but also this report. Also, here are the last days of our fellow citizens who are really bitter to continue prolonging the adoption of the Assistance and Inclusive Supplement Act, and from this place in this replica, we would like to refer the appeal to both the ruling and the ministry to put these laws in the adoption procedure as soon as possible because, as you yourself stated in your report, we believe that these funds are not enough to achieve the fundamental right to live independently and live in the community because these funds and these benefits are simply not enough for that, and I believe that everyone here in this House of Commons should have a common goal in order for the life of our fellow citizens to finally come to the quality they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8741	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8742	So I thank you for this appeal and comment, I think it's important to understand that these laws are actually crucial for the reasons that they are fundamental in general so that persons with disabilities can get adequate assistance, here we are not only talking about one type of damage, but we are not only talking about different types of damages and related to inclusive, but it's also important to point out that at this point we have to work that these working groups continue to work on a continuous basis because we do not have here now, work because in fact the Act on assistiveness, the last time the group was found at the end of 2019 and in the inclusive, before the crown, which means in the 3rd month, so it's important to continue the work because if we do not continue working in this way, then we can't speak either... 'Cause it's worth it if they put it on when we know nothing's going on right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8743	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8744	Respected attorneys, statistics show that individual employers prefer to pay fines rather than fulfil their legal obligation and employ people with disabilities. Lately, certain phenomena have also occurred due to digitisation, that certain jobs where people with disabilities have worked, which are less complex, are abolished, and that people with disabilities are not deployed to other jobs but are left out of work. I'm interested, counselor, in how to encourage employers, in order for people with disabilities to look at their full dignity and not take away their opportunity to achieve their fullness as persons on the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8745	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8746	There are a large number of people with disabilities who, in principle, have some damages that are not large enough to achieve certain incentives, while at the same time they are large enough that people cannot work full-time or be in their workplace giving full effectiveness as individuals who may not have any health problems. I think it's important to change the Labour Act, to introduce... working time, to introduce the possibility that people who have different damages can come to work later, but at the same time, that they can take a break and do their needs that they need to be effective because I don't think that any country is so rich, so that Croatia, too, would not take advantage of the full potential of those who are available. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact that someone can't work for 8 hours but can work for 3 hours or 2 hours, I think it's important for his mental health as well as for the state, and in that case he can contribute more safely to himself and to the work and the state than this way he sits at home and waits whether he gets something from the social rights system or whether he's going to give some kind of early retirement. [[Intruder: Time.]] I think we need to work on that, and employers need to be motivated and actually informed because I think Employers might even have had more information about this perception of the change itself regarding... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8747	Thank you. Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8748	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. You speak of the problem of fosterhood or the problem, especially in rural communities and life in the community where you show and point out that it is incomparable to develop life in the community, the possibility of this classical fostering that people who are there are not only in inappropriate conditions but also in a series of other things that are inappropriate absolutely for them, so I am interested, in the activities that you intend to take further, regardless of what you point out, the recommendations are everything else and what can be done further, indeed, not only that awareness develops that people with disabilities is incomparably better life in the community than in this way, but that an institutional thing on this trail is made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8749	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8750	So I think it's primarily important that the competent authorities accept and realize that more inspection supervision is necessary, then inform the foster parents, not only the foster parents, but generally all those who can make people with disabilities live, if they already live in these families right now, to live with dignity. During our tours, we do indeed establish different rights violations, which we have shown in a manual that we worked together with the Study of Social Work a few years ago where really foster care was shown as well, institutional service, but in a smaller form. Why? Because simply the people who are adults when they come into a foster home where there's a lot of them in one place, we have situations that actually they call their foster homeowners, that it's not really a family and that actually when they have an institutional life form, it actually turns out like they're in a kindergarten, like they're being kept there for adults, like this, people who live in institutions. It's of interest to prevent us from going to institutions, and we're interested in it. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] provide support in their own homes and that in fact everyone understands and invites parliamentary representatives to go to foster homes in their local environments and see how disabled people [[Thank you very much.]] Excuse me. [[/Intruder: Elephant, we have to stick to the weather.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8751	This is where we have to be exact. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Saberar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8752	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, the attorney general. I thank you once again for this exhaustive report where you have indeed guided us in all the problems that govern our society. I will personally look back at these laws later, which unfortunately, although promised, will be passed, have not yet been passed. There are, of course, strategies, strategies on mental health in the community and all other strategies that can help us to take better care of people with disabilities but what I will now point out and ask you again, do you think that only through these laws that need to be passed and these are the Law on an inclusive addition to a personal assistant and a new Social Care Act, will this be enough to bring about a balance of rights with people with disabilities? It's about poor people who need help. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8753	- Mrs. Crescent. An elephant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8754	So we are not interested in equalising the rights of persons with disabilities, we are interested in each person with disabilities getting what they belong to, means that they get that support to cover the cost of disability so that it can live as much as possible and stay in their home, or that they can live by choice, because in Croatia we do not have the right to choose as long as one person with disabilities dies because someone in her family dies or because she is left alone in her home, must simultaneously be referred without the right choice through the CZSS to an institution, foster care, etc., just because she simply may not have adequate material means for the existence or money to cover that support that she may need to stay in her apartment, in her own house, in her environment. That's exactly why I think these laws are fundamental but they're not the only ones. The Republic of Croatia has a series of laws concerning persons with disabilities as well as other citizens, and in that sense persons with disabilities are part of each area and regardless of those three laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8755	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8756	Thank you. The esteemed attorney, I would also like to thank you for your work and for the report that provides a clear insight into everything that is actually being met by all persons with disabilities and, unfortunately, I must say, that we have placed persons with disabilities in this country in a position not of the citizens of the third order, and I am particularly concerned by this very situation that you are now talking about and this is the right to choose and be able to live in a community where people are actually being forced into institutionalization. I'd just like to hear from you, so do you think that the Institute of Attending of Adults is appropriate or perhaps we should completely abolish it and replace it with some other type of service, and I'd also like to ask you what your position is about designing services for people with disabilities where actually these services are. only during the duration of certain types of projects from the European Social Fund. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8757	- Mrs. Crescent. An elephant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8758	So for years we've been warning that simply these services that matter in... service, rehabilitation, etc. for children with disabilities to adults of social services, they should not be and should not remain projectary because they are unconstitutional, unconstitutional and are in fact very and primarily important for a person with disabilities to have a particular service in their local environment and, in fact, it does not refer to whether in any other environment due to life or generally due to work and etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that a number of services are too provided through projects rather than systematically, for this reason some legal solutions need to be changed. As far as foster care is concerned, we have been stressing for years that it is not appropriate for adults, that it is not an extra-institutional service, and in this part we believe that it is simply necessary to bring in all possible means of support that these persons do not go out of their homes. It would be better if he stayed in one house and had the possibility of supporting it because it's healthier, because it's more quality and ultimately, when the line was drawn, I believe it would be cheaper for the system than it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8759	And finally, Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8760	Your Honorary Attorney, I'd like to commend your report and look first at one thing that makes me extremely happy to be noticed, what you're saying, the right choice. Many of us don't really understand how much it's the right choice for disabled people. And now I'm going to touch the works of the topic that you mentioned, it was an apartment in your report where you're talking about architectural barriers, not having elevators in buildings actually preventing the use of certain objects to people with disabilities. I will remember only a month ago today we were here in this assembly talking about the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb after the earthquake and then an amendment was proposed to enable the installation of elevators in this law, adapting architectural barriers Or the removal of architectural barriers that the Government has not accepted [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] I'm asking you from this place to try now while they're bringing in a program of measures to install it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] in the programme of measures because the fact is... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8761	We have to stick to time, I'm sorry. Here you go, ma'am. An elephant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8762	So I am just thinking here with the support of certain associations, is it precisely in the same proposal that in the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, to do everything there is to ensure accessibility, however what I said in the opening part, the problem is great with these old buildings that are cultural heritage, etc., that certain permits are needed, etc., but what is important when it is being restored, then it is seen in accordance with the Regulation on the provision of accessibility but also all other laws that we have but what is important, for people to adapt because we had situations in Draskovic when it was an earthquake, that actually the person with disabilities had to deal with the 5th floor, that there was no possibility at all for getting down, and there was a person with disabilities, so that there were a number of problems and in fact everyone working on the reconstruction should do everything to do as accessible and as possible. There are solutions that are not always needed, the elevator, there are solutions where you do not always need some expensive solutions to find, but you need to find the most adaptable form to ensure the possibility of entering-out of the building. So in that part, I believe there will be a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8763	Thank you very much. We don't have any more replicas, ma'am. Attorney General. Does the rapporteur or the committee reporter want to take the floor? Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? [[Intruder: Thank you, there's no need.]] Yes, go ahead. - Mrs. Crescent. Maria Pleikosa, State Secretary at the Ministry of Social Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8764	Honorable MPs and MPs. The Croatian Parliament sent a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give an opinion on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2019, which was submitted by the Advocate General in an act of 30 March 2020. The competent authorities provided indications of the report in question on the basis of a statement by the competent authorities which gave reasons relating to certain allegations and the report produced an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As you have had the opportunity to hear in the presentation of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, that report shows the activities and work of the Advocate's Office and gives an overview of the data on the reported infringements of the person with disabilities during the past year as well as recommendations by the Ombudsman to the observed irregularities in the stakeholders responsible for the care of persons with disabilities through various areas of action. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has assessed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2019 with a very informative, but also a document that will make a significant contribution to the planning of measures and activities for the next period, following the recommendations of the Ombudsman. We consider the Ombudsman to be an extremely important associate with which the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all its bodies have good cooperation. The remarks and proposals of the Ombudsman as we have so far will be considered to be a valuable correction and a good guideline in which we must all go together when it comes to the exercise of rights and meeting the needs of people with disabilities. We all have a common goal, and this is to raise the quality of life of people with disabilities to the highest possible level of the earliest age, both through legislation on which we continue to work intensively and through the dissemination of the network of necessary services in the community. We therefore thank the Ombudsman and all of you who, by your efforts, encourage the improvement of the care of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8765	Stay here, Mrs. Pleikosa. You have a couple of replicas, couple of six. Mrs. Sablar Dračevac first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8766	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. We've all looked somewhere at how the report is quality and comprehensive and that in any case we support it, but my question to you would go in this legislative direction. So, what's first of all with the Law on Social Welfare, but also with these other laws, the Law on Inclusive Adjective, the Law on Personal Assistant, and what seems to you, given that the attorney told us that we have a problem with working groups, when you intend to leave, and within what time can we expect in this House to discuss these laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8767	Mrs. Pleikosa, I must give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8768	Thank you. So, as far as the Social Care Act was concerned, the law was completely completed before the covid epidemic, but for certain financial reasons we stopped, but here we are almost all finished and the law goes into procedure. As for these other two laws, working groups have worked and have reached certain conclusions, we have actually stopped at an inclusive supplement working group, waiting for proposals from all the participants of the task force who have committed to providing proposals to improve certain services, so it is not true that they have stopped, the working groups are still working. And as for unfortunately the financial resources that are really huge, it takes nearly 3 billion kunas to increase for all of what we want to include, of course it can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8769	Thank you very much. Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8770	Honorable representatives of the government. I'm very glad that you've praised this report, and I'm even more pleased that you've come out for this pay phone so that it can be replicated. All that's listed in this report as a problem is actually a problem for the executive authority that hasn't been solved, so the fact that you're talking about this report being good, it talks about how much you haven't done as a government. I mentioned one thing in my previous replica, I was here in the Parliament, it was the Law on Reconstruction and Installation in that law to prevent architectural barriers. But it would be interesting when you go out for this pay phone to say what you've done or what you're going to do and who will be responsible if you don't make something of what happened today as a problem. We in this country have a problem with responsibility for inaction, actually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8771	Here you go, Mrs. Pleikosa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8772	Thank you very much. I'm very sorry that this report doesn't talk about everything we've done. Believe that over the past period, as far as deinstitutionalization is concerned, that we've really done a lot, that we've started with a group of people with disabilities that we've organised only housing, that we've led a number of institutions to the point where we need to completely abolish institutional accommodation, then we continue with extra-institutional accommodation for children. We passed the Household Act, then we increased the fees for the parents of the foster parents. We've increased, we've increased the personal disability, we've changed the law. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8773	You'll have opportunities, you still have a few more replicas, so you can use it. - Mrs. Crescent. Grman Kizzwat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8774	Thank you, Vice President. Well, as I asked the D.A., but I actually think you're a better address for that question given the employment of people with disabilities, I read one of the contests. I wonder if you consider the fact that a person with disabilities in order to call for disability has to deliver evidence of how her last job ended. Do you consider that discriminatory given that other candidates do not have to do so, they must only bring in a copy of the pension if they are an unemployed person or a certificate from the institution and this if they do not deliver that information disqualified from the tender as documentation that is not complete. We're calling here to help people with disabilities, so I'm wondering what your point of view is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8775	Thank you. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8776	Well, I have to say, I'm not, I'm not familiar with it enough, I can personally find it discriminatory. Of course, all candidates must have the possibility to apply under the same conditions, so we'll consider it, we'll really consider it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8777	Mr. Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8778	Your honorary secretary of state, so I've just been commending you to the esteemed attorney's report as well as to the situation that you're doing well. It would perhaps look little at the criticism of the opposition on the issue of project, project financing. The truth should have provided systematic funding, but if we hadn't funded social services in European funds, we wouldn't have been able to afford a good share of them. Let's just take the employment policy, the "Wish" programme, no woman has been fired, a billion and a half kuna so far invested in the project. In the entire term of the previous government, 4 billion kuna for all active employment measures, here for the employment of 6,000 women a billion and a half, so let's be fair and say, a good part of these services could not have been afforded without European funds. European funds are projected, but we have found ways to have the continuity of all these services including And your ministry... [[/Invader: Thank you, Mr. Pavić.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8779	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8780	Thank you for your comment, and I would also like to add that we are conducting a tender for the expansion of the network in the community, services in the community, so that we have opportunities and the conclusion of three-year projects and 1-year-olds and there could be really a number of activities that we are carrying out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8781	Thank you in the end, Mr. Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8782	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you've said well, so this report is comprehensive, informative, in some way repeated over the years, it seems to be only about negativity, I would not say it now but I have some experience, I think it's Mrs. Attorney General, as well as our Parliament representative Ljubica Lukačić, the voice of people with disabilities in public space, and we must admit that it is not easy for them to get some media space, which is also a message from society to people with disabilities who need to be changed. One of the roles of the ministry in which you work is the preparation of projects to approve financial support for EU funds. Former Minister Pavić knows this much better, but here I will mention here, I come from Zagreb, City Office for Social Protection and Persons with Disabilities, Mrs. Romanu Galić, who is very good at leading Here is now a project of social services for people with disabilities million and a half kuna in Novi Jelkovec [[/Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Cellic.]] It's just one example. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8783	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8784	Thank you for your comment. Here's as I pointed out yesterday on our committee, with Parliament's representative, ma'am. Ljubica Lukačić hears me, so at least once a day, with the Ombudsman really very often and once again thanking and pointing out that they are corrective and our conscience and, of course, within the possibilities we do everything we can to make care of people with disabilities even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8785	Okay, and I skipped and I apologize, ma'am. Here you go, petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8786	... Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Secretary of State. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to draw attention here today when we are discussing persons with disabilities and obstacles they face and a special group of people with disabilities, and these are Croatian defenders who are disabled of the Homeland War, there are 56994 and analyses show that in 2018. In conclusion, at the end of that year 3899 died, and 74% of those who died were younger than 70, among them 640 HRVIs, of whom the suicide committed 3%. What I would be apostrophe here is the fact that we owe these people what we owe these people today is that we have an independent and free Croatia and that we are all here and we can really express ourselves in the fullest sense of the word I'm interested in whether the general government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence Institutions are actually analysing the suicides of disabled persons. [[Intruder: Time]] and determine which causes [[Thank you, ma'am. Petir/]] That kind of procedure? [[/Intruder: Thank you, thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8787	Here you go, ma'am. Pleikosa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8788	Thank you very much for this question. I can say that this particular topic is actually in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence and I know that they are doing this and I think that we can expect results very quickly, and of course it is a serious problem and we fully understand that, that there is also a need for support for both persons with disabilities and HRVI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8789	No more replicas, thank you very much, ma'am. Pleikosa. Does he? No, we don't have any more. We're moving on to moving to a debate, opening a debate. She's the first one. Anka Dark Taritash, who will speak on behalf of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8790	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys with associates, state secretary, colleagues and colleagues. For years, we've been reading the attorney general's reports for people with disabilities, cases he's faced with, recommendations he makes, and we can conclude one thing. In Croatia, there is a large group of people, almost 500,000 of whom have been denied in achieving their basic human and civil rights. We often talk about minorities, national, gender, sexual, religious and all and others, and the need to protect and develop their rights. And we must never forget that big group of 500,000 people. People with disabilities live beside us but as a society, a state, unfortunately, and individuals, we often act not to live with us. In fact, we often work actively to avoid people with disabilities being involved in normal lives in Croatia, in education, in the labour market, in the achievement of health care, in participating in what we call normal life, this report for years indicates how they have been cut off at every turn. As a society, we must at no time pretend that they are not there, but we must also not pretend that they are gone and that the problem will disappear. One thing must be quite clear. The question of achieving equal opportunities for people with disabilities is not and must not be a question of someone's goodwill. It is not a matter of compassion, gain, caritivity, goodness, help, socialism, or whatever other name or expression we want to use. The issue of equality of equal opportunities for people with disabilities is the question of achieving fundamental human and civil rights. For me and our club, it's a key recommendation for this report. The Ombudsman warns us and I think he is right, and that he is doing his job well, in many places in his report that it is about the exercise of human rights, something that we all have the right to do because we are people and it is a test that unfortunately Croatia falls from year to year. 500,000 bloated citizens and fellow citizens do not exercise their basic rights in many cases. The frightening example is that out of half a million people with disabilities, over 200,000 are working age, only 11 500 work. So 5%. Of course, one part is unable to work but a large number of people with disabilities and a large number of such persons, this is due to the fact that this country but also society often mistreats them. And when does he leave? From the first steps in education to the competition for work, people with disabilities face obstacles that should not be met with our task and the role is to make these obstacles as little as possible. Not because we're good, not because in the laws of this country and international conventions it's all written, but simply we have to work on it. The dual system of education that continues to take place through the institutions of social care and failed to integrate children with disability or developmental difficulties, the normal system of education is the first obstacle, or we can call it perhaps a little bit more rough, the first ghetto in which we drive them. One of the consequences is very weak and lacking education that people with disabilities acquire. As a result, they are already in the beginning uncompetitive or less competitive in the labour market but this problem does not stop. Even those who gain the highest degree of education in the regular education system face completely unexplained employment problems. I'll give you an example. It's a case of a blind psychologist who's in a hospital to make things worse, said it would be better not to hire him here, that it's not the middle of it and that he won't be able to. Although this person meets all the conditions of the competition. Employment is a very good problem for the poor organisation of our country and its institutions, but to be honest, sometimes the insolence of individuals making decisions for them. The right advantages in hiring people with disabilities under the same conditions that we have on paper, in reality, are often unattainable even for candidates in state and public services. And that's where I want to point out again, and I have to point out. It's not a gift or it's not dependent on someone's goodwill, it's a right to equalise an unequal position when entering the labour market because of disability. To be clear, this right exists so people with disabilities can start from the same starting position that people without disabilities start from. Unfortunately, for many people, this remains an unfathomable dream, and we must indeed point to the responsibility of the state itself and its institutions. This report is really comprehensive, there's a lot of stuff in this report. In her opening statement, the Ombudsman made it very comprehensive and made it clear about the recommendations that were made. The lawyer's role is to point out that she has recommendations. The role of us is that this report really, to talk about it, to point to facts and then to force the executive power to actually be better and to do a lot more. It is also the essence of discrimination against which the Ombudsman in his report consistently warns the issue of relations with persons with disabilities is a matter of the fundamental capacity of one state and one society to allow as many equal initial positions as possible to all citizens and we must always bear in mind this. Not only the final results, but to influence how they will manage in real life and what successes they will achieve, and the basic initial positions and the possibility of education and access to the labour market, we actually need to ensure that. Speaking of discrimination, let me also mention one of the greatest injustices and the biggest problems of this system to which the lawyer, and some of us warn. It is, of course, about the realisation of rights depending on the cause of disability, or simply on how we, and where disability is acquired, often plays a crucial role in the rights that arise from it. I have to do it again because it's one important message. Our relationship to disability is not a matter of reward, charity or gratitude to anyone for anything. It is a question of achieving equal initial opportunities to participate in the life of its community in all its parts. It's a matter of fundamental and human rights. Unfortunately, women with disabilities are discriminated against as a group that is discriminated on at least 2 basis. This is seen in all segments, and the one I want to specifically warn about today is the segment of health care. We're facing a problem on both sides. On the one hand, women with disabilities are not aware enough of the importance of conducting preventive medical examinations, and on the other hand, our health institutions are inexplicably unadjusted and uninterested in giving everyone equal chances. We are often witnessing hate speech towards different minorities in Croatia, and what we are less aware of is that we really need to make sure that our whole relationship with people with disabilities is one kind of hate speech. It's the use of stereotypes and ugly expressions and it's a classic definition of hate speech. We're stereotyped and we're given the right to think that we know and we can determine how they're going to live, and that's not the only way we should. What I'm stressing all the time and saying on behalf of the club, what's important is that the initial chances for all of them must be the same. We as a club will support this report. Not even that we're going to support them, but we're stressing that this is about an excellent document. That we have 350 pages of good, smart, useful recommendations, but that's how we get every year. And what's the task of all of us is that these recommendations don't go into the wind. It's like they've never been written. Thank you. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8791	Thank you, too. Mr. Stipo Mlinaric in front of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. Attorney-General Slošnjak, greetings to you. I've read your report, the short version, the whole and this expanded version, and I've encountered a lot of numbers. I must point out that the data in the report do not comply with those figures. I'll give you one example. You're saying that you've had 2172 addresses and that most of them have been written, 52%, and 649, respectively. I couldn't connect and figure out where your numbers came from and how you got to them, but no matter how you read the short report, I couldn't find a man in it. In your report, I do not see the examples of people with disabilities and parents with developmental difficulties. In your report, I do not see the daily challenges facing people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. I'm sorry, but I have to point out that we all remember the girl who lost her disability because of the property censorship. That girl has spoken to many, including you. How informed I am, and I wonder what has been done about this, because property censorship must not affect the right to a disability. So I ask you, when will there be a change of that law that degrades by all means? I know how often parents who exercise parental rights asked you various questions, among other things, and the question of getting sick, what about their child. We know how your parents asked you why your foster parent’s birth law says that your parents have the right to an annual vacation and to be sick. Tell me, which mother will leave the child outside the Social Care Center and go on vacation. I wonder why all these indifferences of the legislator and I wonder what you've done to change that. Dear lady. You and I both know they're not just mothers, they're doctors, they're nurses and nurses. And 24 hours a day are tied to their children, but to their mothers and fathers, nothing is difficult when it comes to their child. We know, ma'am. Advocates, both with the end of a person's life with disabilities, or with a child with developmental difficulties, stop receiving for the parents of the foster parents at the same time. I'm asking myself and you, why didn't we fight for those parents to receive a fee at least six months after the death of a person, and in order to make sure that the politicians who have the right to receive 6+6. So what makes us better than the parent's parents? Don't they need to get used to new living circumstances and possible employment? Why do some parents of children with developmental difficulties every 2 years have to collect a number of different papers to prove that their child’s condition has not changed? I know that some parents have warned you that it is not the same to have a child on the respirator, a child who is completely immobilized, and a child who can be dressed on his own in part, who can also go for a walk and also have the same income as a parent. I'm not saying that some parents should have a fee, I'm just saying that the compensation of parents who care about permanently fixed children is inadmissiblely small. Because if we put that child in the constitution, the state will stand between 12 and 15 000 kuna a month. What did you do about it, and why isn't that in your report? You shall state as Advocate for Persons with Disabilities in accordance with Article 33(2). The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities periodically submits a parallel report to the UN showing the state, rights and position of persons with disabilities, based on the experience of POSIs presenting as a work report. The opinion of the experts of independent institutions, alliances and associations of OSIs is focused on the challenges of the national strategy of equating opportunities for persons with disabilities and relevant regulations essential to the implementation of the basic principles of POSI. Therefore, according to the POSI, as stated in December 2019, in preparation for a report submitted in February 2020 in accordance with the deadline set. You don't say anywhere whether this report is positive or negative. In Article 17 of your report, you claim that you have been warning for a number of years that you have failed to ensure the application of professional support to children with developmental difficulties in terms of early promotion of development is a failure to comply with the provisions of the POSI, but it also represents discrimination against children with a health condition. You are saying that at the state level education in social care institutions is still acceptable and that there is no discrimination. So I ask you what about the local level where parents can't enroll their children with developmental difficulties because some people don't want their children to be in kindergartens with some sick child. I wonder if it's discrimination, is that the justice we stand for? I wonder why it's not in the report. We know that people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities have the right to import cars without excise duty, but wonders that a person with disabilities and a child with developmental difficulties can achieve this right in a car must be built in a crane or a ramp, no matter what you have in place special commands, no matter what you have a solution about disability and excise duty, if there is no ramp and cranes you have to pay. One of the things that people with disabilities complain about is that every year they have to have a copy of the solution to release the toll when registering a car to achieve that right. I wonder why harass people with disabilities if they're in the system and I'm asking you what you've done about it? Also, people with disabilities change the accessibility sign every 5 years, and with two photos of people with disabilities they have to prove to them that a person with disabilities is a person, if a person with disabilities changes his car to regain the right to release from the payment of highways must prove to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure that he has physical damage to the body at 80% and above. I wonder if it's unnecessary harassment of people with disabilities or the value to which it still needs to be arranged? The Homeland Movement will accept such a report but will also support you for any changes and shortcomings that need to be made legally to improve the conditions of civilian people with disabilities. Since I come from a group of military disabled people, I am, I would suggest, and I would suggest that this government be prescribed a law on wartime wartime invalids and transferred to civilian people with disabilities because it's a very good law, and I think that should be applied to civilian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8793	Replica no, but you can as a proposing, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8794	I thank you for all the questions, here's the short one I don't know how much time I have to comment on, please block. As far as statistics are concerned in general, I personally work on statistics so that as far as these 2,172 citizens are concerned, these data are precisely by addressing citizens 2.2, it is explained to you that, please remove the block, that it has been written for the application of 955 citizens, and associations, those that, meaning for rights violations. The specific complaints about those who did not have the character of the complaint are that they were asked different, requests for counselling etc., requests for support were 294, those in which there was no treatment for reasons because they were wrongly placed at the office were 33 and by personal arrival and by telephone there were 890 people who addressed them. In that number, that's 2,172. As for the summary of why there is no man inside, the man has, all these letters are actually people, they may not be read as such through individual complaints because we must present to the assembly a report that up to 30 pages a summary of what is an obligation, but in 30 pages we really can't put individual examples so it's so hard to put a man inside. And for this reason, from the very beginning, since I started doing reports since 2008, we have decided on a large report that depends on the needs because we have seen that in Croatia there are no sublimated different areas and rights in one place, and so, indeed, over the years, this report has been ruined bigger and bigger, we try to shorten it, otherwise it would really be more of a volume of this bookshop, but we have reduced from 600 pages to 300, so this one is in an expanded version of more individual cases in order to really illustrate the problem that is ahead of us. As regards children with disabilities and parents in general throughout all areas, they are of course the most circular areas of health, then areas of social care and education. In that part, since we have been following from the very beginning, the problems that children’s parents face, as much as problems related to these areas. As far as parenting status is concerned, with all those activities that make up mothers, which make up citizens' initiatives from Help the children with disabilities, to the citizens' initiative in general, we strive to make their proposals as well as those addressed by parents not only to include in the reports but to do everything to change the law. She also knows Mrs. Pleikosa, the secretary of state as far as she seems and how much she's investing in that part, which we can't all of these recommendations that we're sending them and the legal proposals we've been sending them in this report for years. We do not give individual examples because these are examples that are repeated and if we look at the report of the last 5 years it can be seen that in every report we kind of cover this area for the reason that there is no change, and that we actually want that real change because the carer in our opinion should not be like that at all at this point. Why? Because at the beginning of the adoption, this right was passed on to certain categories of persons or children in an extremely difficult position. So people who are in a coma, people who don't use different devices, etc., but today this right has crossed every line and gone in fact over 4,000 people use the status of carers. It is of interest to us that individuals with various damages to receive support in their family in such a way that this parent who is today acting that role or a loved one who acts that role actually deals with his life the way he should have without that child. It means that that school he finished to do that job, that the part of the day he wants to use for himself, and that child to get adequate support of course as a parent, but also external support, to be relieved, to be a healthy family and not to be under quotes as they often call the victims of their members. It is of interest to us to move this status of carers into the legal part in the sense that he is under the law of assistance because it is actually a kind of support in the family of that child or an adult. The status of the care provider, we suggested all of what you said and indicated that this was also a problem after the death of a certain family member who is a person with disabilities. We've also commented on annual vacations, on sick leave, because what's a big problem for us is that we don't actually see The reason why a replacement could behave one of the other persons without that person having to go outside his home. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] As far as the Croatian Defence Act is concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8795	Mrs. Slonjak, Mrs. Slonjak, unfortunately it's time, but you have two replicas so you can connect. Mrs. Sablar-Dracher, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8796	I thank the chairman. The esteemed attorney exactly what you said, when I asked you before, so I was just thinking about the fact that it's the right thing to do, the cause of disability because there's a big difference. So we should even it up in line. But it certainly would have looked back on the fact that today we heard that you were able to solve some things or that I was the Attorney's Office solving the problem, so then I think that everything he's directed he didn't refer to the lawyer but to the government, and the solution in any case is very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8797	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8798	In the end, I would just like to say that I also believe that many civilians, persons with disabilities, are satisfied that the law that is related to Croatian defenders and that those rights they have, that at least one major part would be much more satisfying than they are today. Unfortunately, we all know it's not. We went with different proposals and meetings in that part and tried somehow to ensure greater rights, but at this point it's not, we all see it. I am the Ombudsman not only for persons of the civilian, ministry, defender for all regardless of the cause, but also for Croatian wartime military people. And in this sense, of course, we also process their complaints in some areas, but of course since the Croatian Defence Ministry has just been established in the interests of them, we of course have good cooperation with this ministry and we refer most of these complaints to the foreign ministry. But what I'm saying again, what's important is that these project activities that are given and these are actually fundamental rights that should be systematically translated, and regardless of the sources of funding that these are today European funds, right. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8799	Mrs. Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8800	That's good, that's good, that's great, thank you. Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, in your report, you detect the state of affairs, the state of things in your portfolio, and you detect recommendations that are necessary to improve this state of affairs. I am extremely glad that the status of foster parents was mentioned, yesterday my foster parent, for the simple reason that they are parents who must have part of their lives, these are parents who must have some part of the day, they are 24 hours in that status, so they have to have some part for themselves during the day, some part of them even if they go to the park, that women go to the hairdresser, now I really don't want to banalise, and it would be very good if at least now in this amendment of this government try to solve this problem and legislatively do it, and I am kind of encouraging you to try to do it together with the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8801	Thank you. Mrs. Slonjak, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8802	There have been various proposals, I say here we are, of course, trying to solve this together, this year you all know that an increased fee of 4,000, many of which are satisfied, but it did not actually resolve the issue of this right because in this way there remain certain issues that you yourself have said to the Labour Act, the Pension Law, etc., which should be systematically resolved. In what way? We'll see how it goes, but it's certainly our best interest to make sure. I think we're interested in making sure these parents work, live a full life. I mean, it's not in my best interest that we all go to nursing status because that gives us a closed circle and we get what I said to a family that needs far more then support and psychological and everything else that follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8803	Thank you very much. Let's move on. You don't have any more replicas. Ms. Renata Sablar Dračevac will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8804	The Honorable Attorney General, the Honorable Government Secretary of State. Here, I'd like to look back a little bit more on some of the things that we had in the attorney general's report. In the register of persons with disabilities at HZZ on 23 January 2020, 496,646 persons with disabilities were registered. So we have an important group in our society that has registered disability. In 2019, the Ombudsman addressed 2172 citizens, which is 12% higher by comparing them with 2018. Discussing the complaints received and the other statements had 3398 actions, so it is a large business that this office has done and should certainly be commended for. In particular, they highlighted 410 individual general recommendations addressed to competent ministries, units of local and regional (regional) self-government as well as to other legal persons. In 2019 e-Consultation sent 42 proposals for legal and sublegal acts, 45 opinions were sent directly to the competent authorities. The most numerous complaints as well as all previous years refer to the social care system 340, then work and employment 238, in the field of education and education were 150 complaints, and in the field of health 138. The opinion is that in 2019 there have been slight qualitative shifts in policies aimed at people with disabilities, and this is a fundamental problem for us, that practically over the past year, so this is a year without covids, we have not had any significant shifts. But there is a particularly visible lack of systematic solutions aimed at special categories of people with disabilities such as people with mental and intellectual impairment, autism, parents with disabled children, children with developmental difficulties at the earliest age. There are still strong obstacles to accessing information, then education, health care, employment, work, and the right to compensation with disabled people. Persons with disabilities remain at an increased risk of poverty to which a low educational structure contributes. More than 60% of people with disabilities are with completed primary school and there is a lack of compliance of education with labour market needs. The weak share of employment among low incomes from work and pensions, and sometimes we don't even have to engage in community life, so the inclusion has been violated and these people have no right to have their choice in determining the place of life. They are forced to be either fostered or placed in institutions, which is not a good solution. There's also a big problem with education. The Ministry of Education has not even started carrying out activities to establish an inclusive support centre, mobile teams, transform education institutions with the programme into competence centres to support the regular education system in the implementation of inclusive education. The latest Science and Education Strategy is not included at all and is not included in the National Strategy for Rights with Persons with Disabilities. I think that this with the training of disabled people is a problem for people with disabilities who will be a problem for us in the long run because with this low level of education that we have now we can imagine what will be in the future. Of course, people with disabilities cannot apply to certain jobs, but it is definitely important for the quality and health of a person with disabilities to be involved in society, to work, to have regular incomes and, of course, according to his or her ability, and I will also look back at the carers. It is far better for them to take up their care after their work hours because we know how our work makes us healthy because then we make a good contribution to society. I think there's a big problem with the legislative activities themselves. Despite the assurances and the announcements that a key law will be passed in 2019 that provides people with disabilities with greater participation, independence and better protection of fundamental rights in 2019 is another year in which neither the Law on Inclusive Supplement, the Law on personal assistant, nor the new Social Care Act has been adopted. So it is crucial to work on the strategies we need to include people with disabilities in society, but also on the laws we need in order to protect this vulnerable group. There's also a big problem with hiring people with disabilities. So that share is extremely low on the labour market, 11610 new employees we have. Of course, there are complaints about health care. A large number of complaints are related to accommodation and stationary rehabilitation and various orthopedic aids. Therefore, in response to the government’s response to orthopaedic aid, it is stated that the manufacturer of a specific orthopaedic aid should be applied or requested to place its orthopaedic aid on the market. I think we should act proactively and therefore see what are the additional orthopedic aids that would then be included on these HZZO lists. The Ombudsman also presented a major problem with decubital wounds and on the Committee on Health and Social Policy, a thematic session was agreed on its proposal. This thematic session will take place at the 11th month, unfortunately it has been decided and will be, but the date itself is not yet fixed since, during that period there are some other events. There will certainly be a session and certainly there will be one inter-resor communication because the decubital wounds are one of the major problems inside, within those who cannot, which, which cannot move or which are stationaryly sitting in one place. It would also point out that major activities have been carried out together with the various associations and HZZ, HZZZ, the association "Ludruga and Meeting", a number of years of attempts to create a platform for the establishment of inter-resorship cooperation in order to ensure optimal care for people with mental health disorders, development outside institutional services, support at local level and the establishment of mobile teams that could therefore come out. Okay, here, I'm just going to finish as fast as we can, so we need to pass these laws, so these are the civil rights of our fellow citizens, and we all stand out in the country, in the state budget, just because we're all equally protected, or in the needs that we have. Thank you. Of course, the SDP Club will support the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8805	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Ljubica Lukačić, who will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. I saw that I let you go a little bit more time, it's my fault. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8806	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorneys with their associates, the esteemed State Secretary, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here I am today certainly having the most difficult and easy task here to talk about the Attorney General's report for people with disabilities who, as everyone here mentioned today, is extensive, quality, informative and will serve as one database for me who already knows very much about it, and so to all MPs, which I personally enjoy. I believe that even after this report, many MPs, I dare say, will correct their expression when it comes to persons with disabilities, so there will be no more disabled persons, persons with special needs, etc., I must mention that because these days we have had the opportunity to hear it in this assembly. But let me tell you before I start to talk a little bit more about this report that people with disabilities, our friends who are suffering from cerebral paralysis, I congratulate their day that was an international day, which was 3 days ago, the 6th and congratulating associations whose members are people with cerebral palsy, which these days have pointed to problems that our citizens face with cerebral paralysis. As I said, a comprehensive, comprehensive report and counsel, I most warmly congratulate you on this well-written report. Also, on this short part, I congratulate you on the open office in the city of Split and on preparing the opening of offices in the city of Rijeka. So the D.A.'s office is expanding, which is certainly going to be easier and simpler for people with disabilities when they need some information from our attorney. I'm sorry to say, today I've been listening here all morning and if I didn't know anything about this subject, I'd have the impression that you're nothing for people with disabilities in the past, not just four years, so in the term of office of this government, it's done nothing before. Listening a little bit and reading this report, and listening to all the colleagues who spoke before me. I can't agree with that and I know that many colleagues who have spoken know that it isn't, but they had to talk like that here because that's what they're supposed to do. The secretary of state listed in a few sentences here what the government did in the last term. The attorney general knows all that, and I know all that because, as already said here today, we have very good and close cooperation and I am firmly convinced that it will remain that way. Today, several laws are highlighted here that are key to disabled people. No one has promised that they will be adopted in 2019, but working groups do their job, and when they do their job, these laws can always be classified. No one here, or at least nobody mentioned it, but it seems to me that it is not clear to anyone that at least the Law on Inclusive Supplement and the Law on Personal Assistance, and then all other laws in any area cannot be passed in quality until we have the status of a person with disabilities. Until we know exactly who the person with the disability and the attorney general and I are able to prove our status, let's just say, how well in the working legislation. But in all other systems, it's a little harder. Why is that? Because it's not easy to solve. And now we've created a foundation where, I'm sure, in the term of office of this government, we'll finally have the status of a person with disabilities because one law is already over, very soon they'll enter the procedure, and that's the Register Act. The Law on the Single Body of Art will also begin, and these are two crucial laws that will ensure that the status of a disabled person can be established. I'm not going to be able to come here today, and I'm going to be able to get here today, given the time that's scheduled to talk about all segments of life for people with disabilities, but I'm going to mention education and work and employment. It is true that in every segment of life, people with disabilities have space, there is room for improvement, and that is the obligation of all of us and this government, and we all together, the attorney and I certainly, and I expect from all of you, respected colleagues and colleagues, to make your proposals, to make your remarks, to consult, and not only to criticise, which is usually the case, and then when the proposal is found, and that is the case on our benches, then I am in a position to say no, this can't because it's not well done, because you haven't consulted, you haven't asked, it's not the disability of 80% of physical damage. Could be. But it's not necessary. So, it's good to cooperate, it's good to ask and then make some kind of solution together. I believe we'll continue to cooperate. When I said I'd talk about work and employment and education. Education certainly needs to take a step. But let's not forget to say that most people with disabilities are studying today, which was never imagined. I will not speak only in my day because when I was in college, there was no speech, or very few people with disabilities at all dared to take such a step into life. Today, however, this is no longer unusual. Homes have customized dorms, custom rooms for disabled people. Most colleges, therefore, of educational, higher education institutions, are today adapted. Which she wasn't once. I said, there's room to move and for improvement, we're here together to do it, but we can't say that nothing's done. On today two years ago, here's the minister of the day, now colleague Marko Pavić and I have decided the first contract for a new integration workshop. So, according to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, new integrated workshops have started to be opened that will employ people with disabilities, and we already have several today, although it is not our goal to hire people with disabilities exclusively in protective and integrated workshops but in the open labour market. We've created conditions, everything's created for that as well. But what's the problem? What I haven't heard much about here today, everyone's saying is that the problem in the government, what any government will never be able to do completely, which is to break down those most difficult barriers, these are barriers in their heads, let each of us go from ourselves, each of us must go from ourselves and realize that every person with disabilities is an equal citizen of this society, and then we will achieve what we want. When it comes to employment, it would be good for people with disabilities to want it, sometimes that's the problem. The past government has therefore created a condition mentioned the Secretary of State [[I'm sorry.]] Personal, here's what I'm gonna do, and I'm gonna finish this. [[I'm sorry.]] So personal disability, aid and care allowance [[We've got to get this over with.]] This year we solved parenting status, only in... [[Intruder: Thank you]] a new Social Care Act [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] will solve other problems, and we expect further laws that will [[Intruder: Luke, there's no]] to make a person with disabilities a better quality. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8807	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic will speak on behalf, not start individual debates, not Green-left bloc representatives' club, I'm sorry. Answer? You got it. You want to go right now? All right, all right, ma'am. Have patience for five minutes only then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8808	Well, here's what I'd like to say is that I'd like to repeat for all those who are speaking in the future about the report, that this report is actually a demonstration of our work, the institution of the Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities, a demonstration of the position of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. And as for boasting and about all those positive activities, I say if you wrote it inside, then you could write 1,000 pages because of course there are positive shifts, of course there are a lot of projects, a lot of different activities that civil society does, which roof organization... What is left of all the organizations, and in this sense our intensities and independent institutions to display everything that can be done yet and which is not. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are year-on-year reports, and as regards personal disability, compensation and everything that has been done and shifts, which were in 2018, and I say specifically when looking at long-term people with disabilities compared to the last 5 years. There's been a shift for 200 people. It is not a number that is satisfactory, nor satisfying for people with disabilities, nor in general believe a state that certainly expected more positive shifts than all those activities that were made regarding the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, and for certain projects which are... financing from European funds made. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think there's a lot more activity ahead of us that we need to do together. And as for the concept of persons with disabilities and damage, of course, we all want one single card or document that will be in a way that when one lady does. Lukac or Slonjak come to HZO or HZZ or any institution that when they put a personal card in a computer that it's obvious that this person has rights, I think that all of us are trying to do so and we want to simply remove all the evidence that in one system provides some right, and in another system means absolutely nothing. So it's also a big one of a long-term procedure that can't just be passed, but it's not the only condition that some laws can be passed and some rights changed. In that sense, I say, there's a lot of work ahead of us, and as far as praise goes, I mean the government and everyone does, there's also a government report on our report, so whoever wanted to read it is able and can still do everything that the government and the others did. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8809	Thank you, too. We've got a replica, Mrs. Devereaux. It's a baby doll.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I'm extremely glad you had a need to speak right after my presentation. It's true, I agree with you, but I had to mention it because you've not pointed out those positive shifts in your report, but it is in one part. But I talked more about, the problems of outstanding positive examples than the other colleagues who spoke before me. But I think in one better way you should talk about what's been done, with one sentence to support all positive shifts, I think it's enough after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8811	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8812	I think we also said in the introduction that there are positive and quality shifts, but as I'm saying again, they're insufficient, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8813	Thank you, too, and now indeed, Mrs. President. Sandra Bencic, who will speak on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so we've heard a lot of things here anyway, I would otherwise just support this approach once again if the reports primarily pointed out those key problems that we still need to solve, and then of course they were always followed by recommendations on how to solve them because the Institute of Independent Advocates and Independent Advocates is not here to report what the Government has done but to look systematically at the things that we still need to improve. From everything now highlighted, but also the problems that I know of from before through cooperation with civil society organisations, one of the key problems facing people with disabilities in Croatia is the lack of policies that people with disabilities treat as full-fledged citizens of Croatia who, in order to access these basic rights and services such as education, health care, etc. It takes some additional assistance, whether it's material, whether it's about removing the barriers etc. No, we are based on the whole policy to condemn people with disabilities on the social system instead of allowing them to emancipate and be full members of the community in a way that they are both educated and working and that they meet all the needs we have and all of us other Croatian citizens. So I will point out here as one of the problems and the way it is actually done, how we condemn people with disabilities to what's called "social" one of the things is still the problem of the family pension institute, or its design, which detimises people with disabilities to finish high school and join the labour market. Another problem is that those who make it, and even those who finish colleges, are hard to find work because of prejudice, but because of the lack of adjustment, on the third hand, because of the lack of all the accompanying services that people with disabilities need to do at all in order to be able to do so from transport, from personal assistance, etc. Then those people who end up and are highly educated, and they were even lucky to have a job very often encountering one basic problem, which is that they can't solve the problem of housing. So, I recently spoke with the Association of Students with Disabilities who told me that it was one of their biggest problems when they finished college, some of them and the doctorate find work and can't in Zagreb, watch out in Zagreb, let alone find an apartment somewhere else that is suitable for people with disabilities. Secondly, private apartments such as those on the market have very little, third and those who have the opportunity to adapt it from private employers, of course do not want it, have prejudice towards people with disabilities that they will be able to pay rent at all. So, why didn't we secure it? We didn't provide some basic public housing fund for people with disabilities except that we provided it for people with disabilities who belong to the category of military disabled. But for civilians and for those who don't belong to that group, we don't have that. So without housing, staying in the community and the possibility of living in the community is not real and is not possible. I wanted to highlight another case that happened this summer, which concerns those persons with disabilities who are already studying and who are... doctoral study employees, so this year we had a case where they had suspended their assistants who needed them 24 hours a day over the summer, which was abolished by the Rector Boras or Zagreb University, and it was several tens of thousands of kunas. Because of these few tens of thousands of kunas, people couldn't stay in the dormitory and carry out their duties and other things, they eventually agreed to collect the money themselves, ask for more donations, and eventually covered the cost themselves. Is this really a great cost for the University of Zagreb, and it is worth it to make it impossible for people to have basic rights and basic assistance? The second part of the problem that I would like to highlight concerns children with difficulties and their parents who are already pointed out here, so the dimension of the problem I would like to point out is that children with difficulties are waiting every year and they are not given time-consistency in the teaching or assistant in the follow-up. For a time, this service was financed from the European Social Fund and it depended on projects, it was not always, so it was when the budget was introduced, but what is still the problem is that no competitions for assistants continue on time. We had the situation this year we have the application, the teaching started in 7.9., the competition for assistants in the class lasted until 14.9., so the children had no insurance assistants from the start in the class. Another problem is the position of assistants in the process, so it is one of the country's most prominent groups. When they signed a labor contract this year they also signed a cancellation if their work contract says that if in the midst of unforeseen circumstances such as strike or covid pandemics will not continue, they are interrupted with the last day of service. So where do you have this interest in Croatia that you do not have a cancellation period, or that you do not hear from them that you can stop working at any time and that you cannot predict it in any way? Well, you have at least three months, one year, or how many. So it's a completely unacceptable position that we need to solve the assistant in the follow-up without talking about the amount of their fees. Furthermore, we have already mentioned here the parents of the foster parents of whom we expect to work 24 hours a day for 7 days a week, and we have not provided them with basic social services in the house, that we do not talk about the situation of what happens to the child if the parent gets sick. If such a parent gets sick you actually have to put a child in an institution where his accommodation costs you 13,000 kuna instead of having the conditions for providing social services in the house to make it less stressful for the child not to get out of its environment, but of course also for the parents. 450 million kuna this year we took people with disabilities for their employment and transferred to the economy. The first question that is raised here, why is 450 million kuna not spent on hiring people with disabilities? Whether we need a redesign of this fund, whether we need all the additional services needed for disabled people to even work and access the labour market, put in and finance them. Let me... First, we're going to ask, of course, that these coins come back for that very purpose, and secondly, let's see how we really use those new ones to get a bigger share of people with disabilities on the labour market. The question of the right to choose and live in a community is almost impossible for people with disabilities when it comes to people who are no longer close to them who can take care of them. We literally remove them from the community, they are located either in an institution or worse in foster families, many of which, like, not all of them, but many as a basic motivation for accommodation have income, not really involving those persons in the family and community. If people with disabilities, as we have heard, call their foster parents their bosses, what are the names of people with disabilities in that position? What position have we put them in? And is it even appropriate to foster an adult? What, in that case, does institutionalization or fostering seem like the right person with a disability to private life? The dimensions we never talk about, which is that people with disabilities have the right to an emotional life, to have the right to have sex life. What does he look like in a foster home situation? Do we allow them to live the fullness of their private lives? Also, given that tomorrow is World Mental Health Day, we must also ask ourselves, what specific measures we must now urgently introduce as part of the Covid package of measures to keep people with disabilities in the situation of lockdown or in situations of this so-called. new normal, but actually completely abnormal, made it possible for them to actually get services that would help them overcome these difficulties. and that they don't have a big impact on their mental health. [[/Intruder: Time. Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8815	Thank you very much. Thank you. Let's move on. Now we're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8816	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, esteemed attorneys, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, in my debate, I would refer to several topics covered by this report. This figure, which we have heard and which is in the report of 497 thousand people with disabilities, certainly cannot leave us indifferent, and I believe that this report, but also all these proposals and initiatives that are also highlighted, must be taken into account when discussing and adopting certain and adopting certain legal proposals that will therefore be discussed in this House, and all to actually improve everyday life, work and movement of people with disabilities. In my debate, in fact, I would refer to several problems of local character, hence local problems, and which I am familiar with, therefore, persons with disabilities. First of all, the Ombudsman herself states in her report that the circumstances in which a candidate with disabilities is competing are often unfavourable versus those in which the other candidates are competing. Since the same test conditions do not necessarily mean ensuring the equal position of all candidates. Here, so a few years ago, an institution opened a tender for the job of telephones, and a person with disabilities appeared in the competition in question. However, later, as a condition for employment, a fireman's course was listed. Therefore, it is apparent that the fireman's course has absolutely nothing to do with the job-seeker's description, however, the person with disabilities did not have the right to employment because, of course, it could not meet that condition. Furthermore, a fresher example this year, also, a person with disabilities, suffered from multiple sclerosis who was employed in a public institution, was fired from the labor contract to dissatisfaction of probationary workers. I note that the employer was familiar with the health status of the person mentioned because he received, therefore, an insight into the entire medical documentation. In view of the course of the disease, the worker deteriorated during the test work and was unable to come to work. After completing the temporary incompetence for work, the worker returned to the workplace, but asked the employer to allow him a smooth access to the workplace in a way to adjust entry into the workplace, which the employer refused. Afterwards, the worker submitted a request for his job to work from home, however, the employer also refused to cancel the job contract. These are just some examples of violations of the rights of persons with disabilities, so at local level and we are indeed appealing this way to all of us to provide stronger legal protection for persons with disabilities in the field of labour law legislation. Also, another problem I want to point out is the question of accessibility or architectural barriers faced by people with disabilities. I will again point out one example from the local level, i.e. my constituency. Persons with disabilities have addressed me on several occasions as the president of the city council on the accessibility of a facility in the area of the Varazdin County. As president of the city council, I sent a memo to the director and the institution, which highlighted all these problems, all examples of architectural barriers faced by people with disabilities. What has been apparent since two years, to this day, I have not received any answer. Here I would also like to mention and praise the ministry which co-finances accessibility projects for persons with disabilities, so I think that units of local and regional self-government should show a greater initiative in applications for those projects, and thus certainly make it easier for people with disabilities to access facilities for public purposes. What I would also like to point out is that the big problem is the question of parking spaces, which is that the Ombudsman pointed out, or the abuse of parking spaces, in cities, or in municipalities where it doesn't actually take care that the people who are supposed to do so very much, and sometimes it's just 5 minutes to put all 4 and go to the bakery. That's also one big problem. What I would like to point out in the end is the problem of isolation in which our disabled persons are located in the stationary and residential areas of the institutions at the time of the coronary crisis. I would also like to thank the Ombudsman, as well as Minister Aladrović, for influencing that these epidemiological measures and recommendations are relaxed and I appeal that in the future, in the event of an exacerbation of the epidemiological situation, no full ban on leaving the circle of persons with disabilities is imposed, but that the measures applied to the staff of the institution are also imposed on users. The health of the user is not only the physical but also the mental one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8817	Thank you, too, stay. The first replica of Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8818	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you have said in your presentation you will also list some local examples, but these are examples that can be seen and can be heard throughout Croatia. So, it's always local for you to go into something global. I think what we all need to talk about, and we have a chance to talk about this pay phone, to point out examples, to make our own efforts to make these examples as little as possible, but when we talk about people with disabilities, then we have to talk about people, in fact their rights are human rights, their rights are civil rights, their rights are the same as all of us and that's what we need to point out, what we need to talk about, and what our role and our mission of fellow MPs is to point out and try through the year, no one has a magic wand, but let's do that through a year or two again Some kind of shift, and then we've done a lot already. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8819	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dark Taritash. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8820	Thank you very much. I agree with you actually, I have cited as saying local examples, I believe that everyone here from MPs and MPs can list the same examples from their electoral unit, from their city, from their municipality or from their county, and I think it's good to highlight them here. So what I'm saying is there are therefore positive regulations that regulate that area but therefore they are not implemented at local level. I want to point out actually sometimes you need to look locally, so there is also a local problem, and here you keep pointing out this state level or ministry and government which I don't think is true because the government is doing and the ministry is doing what is in their jurisdiction, but the issue is implementation and the problem is local to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8821	Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned your colleague's physical barriers, which may be the most visible, in fact, are the most visible barriers for people with disabilities to meet every day. And that's something we're talking about, and I've been in this assembly for years and years and every year and every report we're talking about right now. But I'd like to draw attention to something else, and you said that you've addressed certain institutions as president of the city council, they haven't answered you, which may then be expected by the attorney general. So, you're a politician not to take this the wrong way, so you're in the system in some way while the attorney often encounters many problems by working with institutions that should not only answer but also give and do some concrete things. And that is unfortunately the problem of all our lawyers that institutions do not view them as our Commissioner for Human Rights or Commissioner of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8823	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8824	Thank you very much. Here, I'll give you a relatively brief answer, I'd say that it's about not acting or answering enough to talk about these institutions and the people who represent them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8825	Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8826	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your debate, you set a series of examples from the local level, I believe that as president of the City Council of Varazdin you are very well aware of this, that you have done a lot of good actions and activities to improve this topic. However, there have been a lot of examples in your debate, let's just say not very nice examples, but in Varazdin, not only does there seem to be some of these others and there are some really interesting, beautiful examples, positive such as the Varazdin High School of Professionals, within which it works, within which the protection workshops work between 20 and 30 persons, half of them are disabled people, they fit well, work, have the products required.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8827	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8828	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I agree absolutely with you, so here we are fortunately in the city of Varazdin, so there are also many positive examples. I took this opportunity to actually warn about the small part that needs to be fixed and to be warned about, but I agree with you, and this way I welcome them all at the High School of Professionals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8829	And finally Mrs. Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8830	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Habiban, here in your debate you listed mobility and accessibility as the basic preconditions for the inclusion of persons with disabilities and equality with people without disabilities. Since we're meeting like you said with the problem of parking abuse in places for people with disabilities, in your opinion, how do you end up being so unconscious? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8831	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8832	Thank you very much. Here's maybe a little bit of this is a tough question, it depends, and it actually goes to all of us for a conscience if we actually do something like that. What I can point out, fellow Stričak said a positive example, so perhaps another positive example which was right in the town of Važadin came out of the HDZ initiative, it was one initiative that concerned, or an action called “do you want to change for my place” where we actually, in cooperation with a local concessionary who was in charge of parking spaces, made photographs of the real people who agreed to the natural person with disabilities where we put them in places that were reserved for people with disabilities, so their pictures and thus tried to influence the conscience of the citizens, so when they came to that place they still realize that this place was not intended for them, but for the people with disabilities who certainly meant it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8833	Thank you very much. You have no more replicas. Now, Mrs. President. Attorney General, Anka Slošnjak asked for five minutes on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8834	Here's my thanks. So here I would just say that this particular example, I will go back, this example that Mr. Habib mentioned about the campaign, which is exactly the campaign that has actually been breached from the "Accessibility Initiative in Split" initiative, and on the basis of this positive example of this campaign, we, as a lawyer, have directed all units of local and regional self-government to take over this good initiative that the city of Varazdin has taken over, but also the city of Osijek and many other cities, Slavonski Brod and so on. and so much is what is good that when something is done well in some part of Croatia to carry it all over, through the attorney's office that we get the information that we can send all the bodies because I think that by disseminating the network, it actually raises absolute and awareness, as well as positive shifts in individual local communities. What I would also like to point out is that in the European funds in the programme that is currently being done, which is exactly the period for next, I think that maybe we should go with some proposals and what we have also said at the Ministry of Regional Development, and also for the part that is effective for the Ministry of Labour and Pensions that might be done if money is not available at the moment, on the items from the Ministry of the Croatian Defence which provides a project that goes at the beginning of each year to ensure accessibility for then going to European funds, so wherever there is a particular part that is spoken about culture, because the Ministry of Culture is aware that perhaps in this way it would be made available only for the meanings of museums and theatres, etc., some infrastructures that are related to objects and buildings in the area of culture,... we have made many cultural contents available in the Republic of Croatia, and this would also strengthen the tourist approach of this Croatian people with disabilities. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the other hand, as far as the Croatian Defence Ministry is concerned, I propose this route and I inform all those who are units of local and regional that they have the means to sign up there, of course, by means of cooperation with their civil society associations, to identify those projects and those shortcomings in their environments that can make them accessible and to report and to actually secure the funds and then make use of what is currently available to them. And as for the general unit of locals, I think that they need more to approach the application and use of those resources they have on their own, in their environments and also to make and report certain projects, but also in the field of transport because many environments do not have a suitable transport for people with disabilities, and we know that there are resources and that they can be provided through concessionaries and so on, for affordable transport, especially vans and buses, and what some environments have already used in last year, in this past period of operational programmes. So the resources exist in some way, they need to be recognized, but what's most important is to change the awareness of citizens that wherever it is possible to make a person with disabilities in a wheelchair can also be seen by an elderly person, there can be a mother with a child in a wheelchair, so one needs to look at a broader aspect because today you never know at the end of the day who's going to need that wheelchair and who might want to go to a museum and somewhere, and they're not going to be able to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8835	Mr. Pavić was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8836	Thank you very much. Dear Advocate, I am pleased that you mentioned the "For Accessibility in Split" initiative, greetings and Mrs. The Southern Sinovčić I worked with and all the associations that are from Split. It is a beautiful example of the cooperation of the city of civil society through which a new space for art, modern, was opened, we restored it 1000 m2 in Split. There have been different applications for the accessibility of people with disabilities and mobile parking apps, and I especially thank the Mayor of Opa and his deputy, Mrs. Jelena Hrgović, so these are just examples and I'm glad to see now from your presentation that other cities have followed that example. Once again, I welcome the initiative, and I believe that such initiatives can be done in other cities too much to step up and improve the lives of people with disabilities in local communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8837	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8838	I certainly support everything Mr. Pavić said and I think there are many initiatives not only in the area of accessibility, but others where for example. I don't know in Slavonski Brod we have a radio that is for people with disabilities or who are led by people with disabilities FM, I support that you listen, spread the news, exploit media spaces, and that as many people with disabilities as possible are involved because many of us have people with disabilities who have also been trained for journalists, who have been educated and for some of these other media-related professions, however, there is not enough opportunity for them to come to terms and that they may give their own, their own recommendations, their initiatives and all that they do and their experiences pass on to all those who need it. But what's also important to say, I say that there are many areas where associations and civil society, but also individuals do very much, so ultimately companies that make up a lot of campaigns and... things a little bit of talk about. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8839	Now, we don't have, we don't have any other replicas, neither does the individual debate have Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8840	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, your human rights will be respected today. My colleagues and colleagues, always all the debates that we start with civil defenders, I like to say what their role is and to stress the importance of their role, as well as to highlight the importance of specialised lawyers. In public discourse, we had opportunities to hear and challenge the merger of defences, I am personally against it because I think that the level of human rights achieved and the protection of human rights should not be humiliated but only promoted. And I think that the specialization of the defences that we already have, so the attorney general for children, for persons with disabilities and gender equality, is a good step, so the more we have identified the special groups of societies that we want to further protect, and I see that role as a key. Also what I am pleased to say and I have already said in the debates, it seems to me sometimes to repeat myself, since many things in the reports are repeated and recommendations, so I repeat myself, but I am very glad, and especially for the Ombudsman for people with disabilities to be working on opening district offices or that in Osijek it is already open in Split, too, and that only the pandemic has delayed the opening of the district office in Rijeka. Why? It is precisely because of these barriers, precisely because of all these problems that we have discussed, the service or the possibility of addressing the Ombudsman should be easier for all persons with disabilities in this case, all those who address and seek the protection of this institution. I also think it is necessary to stress that the Advocates or Advocates in our case are the extended hand of the Parliament. The extended hand of the Parliament in preserving human rights, preserving the standards of human rights that we have set as legislators, but also the lacmus paper of the state of our society and the state of respect for human rights in it. Recommendations, such as yesterday's debates by the Advocate General for Gender Equality, as well as by the Ombudsman's recommendations for persons with disabilities, should be very carefully studied because we need to be a guideline for further legislative initiatives or the revision of existing laws. In my brief presentation, I would still hold on to several segments that I see as crucial in this report, which are freedom from torture or cruel inhumane or humiliating treatment or punishment. This is, unfortunately, the right that people with disabilities, or their right to be violated most often. We also had opportunities to see when it comes to older and powerless persons being treated in Croatia in some institutions. It's sad, humiliating on the human side absolutely unacceptable on any moral or human rights side. Why? Because they deserve to be treated with respect, they deserve to be free from torture or cruel and inhumane behavior. And unfortunately, some people with disabilities can't cope alone, unfortunately some people with disabilities can't violate these rights or report it and that's why statistics in this part may not be so numerous, but I'm afraid that if we went to the depth of this problem, if we could further analyze the problem and position of one part of the disabled to come up with quite different numbers that would be devastating. The same or almost similar applies to freedom from abuse and abuse. And I would further underline involvement in political life, and I am very glad that many people with disabilities are involved and actively involved in political life. I would point out that my party colleague Biljana from Zagodnjak who, despite her disability, is very active on social networks, participates in many party events which physically, which virtually, but I am her example and her limitless enthusiasm, you who are famous or you saw her on Facebook know who I am talking about can fill the batteries and give you a positive incentive to fight even harder for her rights, but also for the rights of all others in Croatian society, and also a person with disabilities. Social networks were a special step in this segment and should continue to develop them in communication with the general public, but also as a political outlet for people with disabilities and one... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8841	We have one replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8842	Your Honor. Here we have heard in your presentation and in the presentation of our former parliamentary representatives, our colleagues, that certain problems are being solved in certain cities in other cities in another way, that in some places access to an institution has been resolved, that transportation has been solved somewhere, that housing has been solved. However, I think you agree with me that we should all work together on one unique or systematic solution to our disabled, without it we cannot. So from birth until retirement, we need to take care of the disabled, to make sure that they can normally become involved in life. It's the only way they live normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8843	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8844	Thank you, fellow Pavić. You're absolutely right, the partial solutions at the end of the day won't help anyone, so we should talk about as much comprehensive global solutions as possible in Croatia, because from the reports in the report, we're talking about physical barriers or inaccessibility for people with disabilities, so I've been listening for 10 years. And well, it's fortunate that every report sees some shifts or there are always some examples that should be commended without further ado, but until we have a comprehensive solution and until this becomes a subject, I'm afraid we haven't done much, and we're only talking about something that is physically and relatively easy to solve, first of all for public institutions, for schools, schools and others, and then for everything else. So we should absolutely work on comprehensive solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8845	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8846	Dear Vice President, Advocates, Ministry representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Here, the report on the work of the Ombudsman for disabled persons gives us an insight into the position of persons with disabilities. It shows obstacles to meeting, especially specific categories of children with developmental difficulties, who need to be provided with preschool education and education. I will give examples of positive practices in the debate, so I may also encourage someone to act. I have to admit, I'm embarrassed to be surprised when the media reports at the beginning of the year that children with disabilities come across a wall when they're enrolled in kindergarten or school. I come from a small environment, some even categorize us into a conservative environment, so the team is more our experience is a great and good example. In my Pakrac, children with disabilities are allowed to be raised in kindergarten. I'm talking about two blind boys from a few years ago who we managed to provide a special classroom at a regular elementary school, but also at a music school. I am very proud of all who have tried to achieve this, teachers and other workers who have perfected themselves to give them the best possible education at that time. Just like the community we are involved in helping parents of children with developmental difficulties who drive their children to an educational facility with a special programme of 20 kilometers away from another city. It is an example of how and when different services are less accessible as a community, we can contribute equality, be responsible and protect their rights. Active co-operation of all actors from parents, local associations, local administrations to educational institutions is important to achieve. Together we can remove prejudice and stereotypes. After education, life's path leads us all to employment. The legislation provided for measures and co-financing of persons with disabilities. But that road is a little bit complicated, so here we have the results we have, and that's the real thing that rarely comes true. I'd like to introduce you here to one of the problems facing craftsmen with disabilities. In this regard, the Act on an insurance internship with an increased duration regulates the right to an internship with an increased duration for persons with disabilities. However, the owners of the crafts are not equated with workers working on the basis of the Labour Treaty. I've got information from a few days ago that the D.A.'s office was about to change that, and I'm looking forward to seeing it after 16 years. Correcting these injustices, and I hope that, if possible, retroactively, the right to benefit from the benefits of the persons who had the right to do so will lose when they became self-employed. Furthermore, I call on associations of local administrations and others interested in this problem to follow the competition from the European Social Fund framework, let them recognise their needs as it is possible to make major shifts in the local community. In this way, the town of Pakrac and the local association of the blind with its project partners will improve the quality of life of people with disabilities. Through our project, we established a mobile team with a lawyer, a social worker and a psychologist. We will fully adapt the access and use of our General County Hospital and Croatian Veterans Hospital services to the needs of blind persons, but also adapt the city's website to the needs of technology available to blind persons. We all still have a lot of work to do, a strong relationship between health care, social care, employment services, schools, and that relationship would make it easier for everyone, especially families with disabilities. Finally, I'm extremely glad that there are district offices, and that's important for small environments. We will certainly in this way provide greater inclusion, security, but also equalising the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities so that every new opening of the district offices should be welcomed here because it means a lot for small environments, especially when the problem of mobility is very pronounced. Once again, I would like to point out that active cooperation, providing support for all stakeholders in our community is extremely important for the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the everyday life of the community, and that is what people with disabilities need and equalising opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8847	One replica, the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8848	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, you have cited several positive examples in your local community. Do you think adopting plans for local strategies could improve the situation or improve living conditions and the quality of life of people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8849	Sure. Logical... , so after a state strategy, a national strategy, through the county that local strategies are in order and we need to somehow follow these examples, the strategy is very important, and I think today the Ombudsman also talked about it, set a certain goal, some activities, and then we actually have the opportunity to see where we are, what needs are in the community and how to achieve what is needed, or what is needed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The national strategy and local strategies for equating opportunities to people with disabilities are considered very important because it can also be recognised that part of the barrier we talked about, we can know exactly which structures need elevators, so that I was raised to express myself, or everything in the community that is necessary, we can certainly better assess, evaluate and achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8850	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8851	I would like to thank the chairman, the esteemed attorney, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here we are today talking about the lawyer's report, which I would like to show and support at this time, and through this report, which represents a review of the status of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties in Croatian society. Once again, we all had the opportunity to see that this country treats people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties in an extremely cruel way. As a society, we are well - spoken of in the way we treat those who need help to the greatest extent possible. Well, we heard here and the facts, last year the D.A. addressed over 2,000 citizens, which is a significant increase compared to the year before. She addressed 410 individual and general recommendations to competent ministries, units of local, regional self-government, as well as other real people. This kind of data shows us that the problems people with disabilities face are not isolated cases, that no changes on better things happen, that we don't move from a dead end year to year. We read the same recommendations, we have the same results, and all in the end because of the disastrously bad legal framework. In most cases, it is not about direct discrimination, but rather about bad laws and rules as the main culprits. The most obvious example is the Social Care Act, which contains discriminatory provisions on the exercise of certain social rights, which primarily refers to provisions governing the right of care for adults with disabilities. Despite the amendments to the law, discrimination against OSI remains against age and family status. Discrimination is also seen in the case of the right to personal disability, given the type of income i.e. employees and pensioners, as due to the recent amendments to the law, directly harms pensioners who have been restricted to obtaining a personal disability. One of the most obvious examples of discrimination is the education of people with disabilities who are educated in special institutions instead of the state education system adapting to them, integrates them into society, which separates them and sends them to special institutions. Unrelated to this report, I will also list another absurdity that makes life more difficult for people with disabilities, and it also humiliates them terribly. It is that OSIs are forced to re-confirm the diagnosis and degree of disability before the Commission even when it comes to the highest possible degree. It's a completely unnecessary waste of time just to get someone to check with incurable diagnosis that in certain cases they can't even function on their own, so to check that they haven't healed in the meantime. So you have those cases of 100% disabled people who have to prove their status every two years. Unfortunately, the counsel's recommendations are not binding, the only way to improve the position of people with disabilities in society is for the government to finally start doing its job, to follow these recommendations. Without systematic changes, people with disabilities will never become full members of this society, which is truly devastating for a European country in the 21st century. It seems sometimes that sometimes even these reports, here's not just these lawyers, but other reports of the attorney's office here are few of those who read them at all, it's easiest to skip it, close their eyes, pretend this isn't our responsibility. The report in itself may not be able to force the responsible to follow recommendations, but it is our duty, a moral obligation to find a way to encourage change as representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8852	The first replica of the distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8853	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As an opposition city councilwoman in Split, you spoke about the problem of people with disabilities, I highlighted a positive example of the City of Zagreb. I am aware that Mayor Andro Krstulović Opa said at the beginning of his term that he would appoint a Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities, regardless of whether we are a position or an opposition, I think we should all stand together for the rights of persons with disabilities who are definitely not at the level at which we should be. I wonder if there is any change for the better in the past 3 years of office while you are a councilwoman in the town of Split, do you see any shifts for the better or is it the same or worse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8854	Thank you for that question. The truth is, every time we actually have to fight this kind of thing, point out and mention it. There are some miniature steps, I don't know, here's being built into the HNK ramp for disabled people, but there are cases when you're waiting for the reconstruction of a road that doesn't have a ramp at its pedestrian crossings and you have to keep an eye on and tell the services so that's one standard we have to provide in the 21st century. So I agree with you we should work together on this and absolutely support all those who recognize the needs of the most vulnerable groups in this society and do something to improve their living conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8855	The next replica is distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8856	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs here you have said, I will try to quote you, that very often people with disabilities go to unnecessary art because there someone, someone, someone remembered that this should be re-edited, I would certainly draw your attention to this one that experts appointed as warlocks certainly have both the rules and the criteria by which the witches are trained. In fact, any disability can be improved by experts based on remaining physical and psychological functionality. If we could do a person once, then that means that no rehabilitation, no treatments, no treatment makes sense anymore. Thank God we need to determine if there are improvements. Also, there is no discrimination related to the status of the custodian We have introduced this right and this right goes to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities, so I will talk about it another time. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8857	Thank you. I'm glad you mentioned this art problem, of course, in those cases where we hope rehab can lead to some progress, it certainly is necessary to artificially do so. You have cases of 100% people with disabilities who, if I'm going to be brutal here right now, won't grow a leg in two years, are invited to come back to those articulations. So here's what I'm calling for those rules to really be, I'm saying these are the remarks they warned us about, I wasn't sitting alone with them, we were warned by people with disabilities to point that out here. So I really call for these rules to be reviewed and you'll only have mentioned briefly these few seconds the Office of Art in Split was on stairs that people with disabilities couldn't pass. It took a long time to move it to a convenient location.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8858	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8859	Thank you very much. I would then also refer to this office of the Institute of Arts and Professional Rehabilitation, which is precisely an initiative for the accessibility of Split, cooperation with the mayor, the Ministry of Labour which I ran and provided the Institute with a thousand squares of beautifully decorated. But I would go back to what former Minister Murganic said, the Institute is called the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation, the key is professional rehabilitation. Neither you nor I are experts. I personally did the same thing on the subject, they warned me from the Down Syndrome Association, I welcome Mrs. Dinka Vukovic, who has been doing this, but there is a measure of profession that has to say whether or not she is an expert. Witches are functional, not diagnosed. In other words, we want all those who can function to provide them with professional rehabilitation and precisely in this professional rehabilitation is the key to ensuring them more intregularity in society and better functioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8860	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8861	So I absolutely support here, and I will also commend the realization of this office of art and really inappropriate space in one suitable space. And as for this, I repeat, this is the user's observation, the observation of people with disabilities who are forced to go to these skills regularly pray, I perform here on their behalf, so they beg to check the rules, so they call the profession to the profession to see if there really is a point for some cases that these things are repeated, and we know that the diagnosis is not going to change. I say, I speak for them and this is their remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8862	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Puljak, I think you've actually touched what's most important. When we talk about any lawyer's report or attorney's office, which is a recommendation. Yeah, they're not binding, but we still have to keep in mind, the attorney general is our institution, when I say our opinion of HS as a legislator. These recommendations must be our guidelines for possible interventions in laws or for the repair of other sublaws, regulations and such. What is the point of a lawyer as such except to actively protect rights and to warn when rights are damaged or when our citizens are damaged is precisely this to give us recommendations so that they can make it easier to bring and fix existing legal initiatives. That's what we use too little.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8864	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8865	Well, here's what I absolutely agree with you guys. I actually ended up saying that they have to be our guidance for repairing the system. So we here MPs and MPs need to use these recommendations to propose promotions and legislative frameworks and all other regulations and processes that affect this. I would just say that we often meet here with such reports that have some recommendations, so I say even the State Audit, we talked about it recently and the State Audit makes some recommendations for improving business and state-owned companies and public institutions eventually ends up on recommendations again. So we need to make an effort to get these recommendations into some kind of implementation of the legislative framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8866	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8867	One piece of the replica was stolen by my colleague Hajdukovic. And secondly, I'm glad that you noticed that we should solve these problems systematically. This systematic problem-solving, of course, concerns the adoption of a new legislative regulation and, in particular, the regulation to be adopted in accordance with the counsel's recommendations. What is extremely important, and which we must not forget, is not that we are making regulation but that we should also then also control the verification of this regulation. One part of the regulation has already been adopted, there are obligations for businesses to employ disabled persons, to behave in a certain way, but is this implemented in practice? Is there a control of this and what are the consequences?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8868	I'll agree with you again. Why do I say that when we consulted once a person with disabilities in reading this report somehow felt the indifference of these people, so the same recommendations are repeated, they see no progress so nothing changes. Let's really use this assembly so that it doesn't stay on, that it doesn't just leave an empty letter on paper, a few hundred pages of reports, but that these recommendations are really then implemented into real improvements and help people our citizens eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8869	Thank you. On behalf of the applicant, the esteemed Advocate Anka Slonjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8870	Here's a thank you. I would just say briefly about the question of art, it does not refer to this part of the findings and opinions and to the institution of art, it refers to administrative obstacles in health care. Namely, when a person with disabilities wants to extend a certain right or establish a right to either rehabilitation or physical therapy at home or health care in the house, unfortunately she needs the frigid findings of a specialist and it is a disaster, here I personally mean during this pandemic I had such a problem that I was denied certain physical therapy in the house which I had literally 3 months to endure solutions. If it were someone else who wasn't written enough and described he couldn't really do it. So you've been denied for three months for some right. And on the other hand, it's new now that, for this year, it's not every six months but even introduced every three months. So you have a right that's 45 times coming into the house, but at that time you have to go back in three months, so every two months practically, you have to file a request to get a new report and get checked out by a specialist, so now during the pandemic, it's even shorter, and since you can't even get to that specialist because it's simply all over the email or it's the way the instructions are submitted, so he's practically not going to review you, but he literally prescribes that finding because there's no change in three months. I'm a chronic condition, 28-year-old change has no damage to me, but also every 3 months I now have to prove that I'm still a person with tetraplegia, and that's what you listed in this, it's not specifically about this part of the craftsman's office, it's about the institution for HZZO. And these rules make life very administratively difficult for people with disabilities and arrivals, not to mention coming into these institutions that are not actually accessible in most cases but have to press a certain bell to get someone off the building and then, depending on the weather influences and others are literally being filed in front of the building or someone else for that person. What is it for those who have no one to send? Here's a problem that can be read in the report for 10 years about one and the same thing that I'm really writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8871	Thank you. We have two replicas. Honorable representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8872	I thank you for pointing out that you and your attorneys, Puljak, and for pointing out this problem that we too have received from very many people with disabilities. So it's about making it harder for people to live without having, so it's not different from that of people who have chronic conditions that can't be improved. So I know specifically that parents of children, for example, who have difficulties that are chronic, for example, with spinal muscle atrophy, must also constantly prove that they are still better than that disease, that the damages are what they are, and it is known that they can't actually go for better, they can only go up. What we really need to introduce is reverse logic, which is to allow when a change of condition occurs that the doctor of general practice eventually sees whether it is necessary at all to go to re-evaluate or not, and that people who have a continuous state of affairs are left alone. that they don't have to prove it again for every right. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8873	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8874	Well, there's not much longer here now, but I'd like to say that there really is a difference between adults with disabilities, especially in some programmes related to rehabilitation, treatment, etc. Because it is, however, a child who still needs to get a condition that is permanent, and there is always more change in children than in adults. Of course, adults are dependent on the difficulties I am not going to go in now, but I would like to say that, of course, every system has its own way of skill and the reasons for it, but really in some of the skills it is an absolute mistake because it is simply doing more damage than it is doing, and it costs the system itself, while at the same time harming people with disabilities who are basically going to something that has already been proven to eat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8875	Next replica, distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8876	Well, here's a little bit, I'm glad that you've actually confirmed what I wanted to say, so the problem is with these chronic conditions that they just don't sometimes need this special assessment, especially now and at this time pandemic, when it's actually impossible and to contact and get those assessments and then we're going into some kind of a gap that, in the end, except for some of the physical problems that a person with a disability has, then we end up acting like we're all feeling bad together. Here, just thank you for confirming your statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8877	The answer to the replica, no, okay. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8878	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to go with what's going on here today and talk about opening an office in Osijek. I was present, I met the lawyer and our dear Ljubica, and we had opportunities here in Osijek to open this office, with Split Osijek being the second city to receive the district office. And I think that's good, we need to be closer to the people we want to take care of the people who need our help not in terms of social assistance but in concrete assistance that will solve their problems. When this report is read, of course, that there are a lot of things that aren't, they haven't been able to get rid of these years behind us, and those are the things that they should be working on. But I would have a little more elaborated on this part that Mr. Habian started, and I think he stabbed at the core of not solving the problem, but at least in what we should as the leaders of local, regional self-government, and I come from the post of deputy mayor I entered here in the Croatian Parliament, where we would absolutely have to work. These people live next door. We look at them every day, we know who they are, we know who their parents are, we know what problems they have not only in overcoming the barriers when it comes to accessing institutions but to everyday life problems that we can partially solve and take over until the problem is solved complexly. To edit a circular current, horticulture in the circular flow gives 300,000 kunas coldly and we say, well, that's, well, it looks nice when there's a horticulture, when there's a fountain, and when it comes to our disabled, we say, so maybe we don't have that money in the program and we're hiding somewhere behind some legal or other problems. That's not good. I buried my uncle yesterday, it was my uncle's funeral that was disabled. He's been deaf since his early childhood, and I can testify to what problems he's been going through, not only his life, but also when he's gone to the hospital, how many problems there are in communication, how many problems there are in solving those basic tasks that have been in front of doctors, and also in front of him as the man who's found himself in that problem. I think that as people sitting here in the highest home when it comes to the representative body we can certainly do with our own conspiracy absolutely a lot, first of all I think about this local, local level is I think that these people are part of our community with which we share the same, same space and I don't think we can just leave our concerns to the state and resist with our fingers mostly in the state. It's not good, we need to find solutions that will be faster, which will be far, far better and more effective for these people. What about these people, everything is easy as long as their parents are alive and these parents, of course, bear a great sacrifice, but nature makes their own, parents die, those disabled are mostly left to themselves or, as we have heard from some of the exhibitions here that later end up in one of the institutions that is nowhere near what they learned through the care of their parents. So there are mechanisms, there are ways and we need to accept them as such. What I'm saying is, on October 15th, we're going to mark the International White Stick Day and we have a chance here as deputy mayor every year to be present on that day, so when you just put on those glasses and take that white stick, maybe you need to walk 10 or 15 meters, you see that it's absolutely from this perspective. It's something we have to be very sensitive to, it's something that's a subject that doesn't have, there's no delay, to which we have to react quickly and there's no excuse. So here's what I want for your attorneys to do together with us sitting here at HS, both at this level and at those local levels, we try to speed up and come up with a solution that will be a permanent solution for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8879	Here are several replicas, the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8880	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ivanovic, first of all, accept my condolences. But then I'd like to tell you something else. So you're talking about advocating people with disabilities, and that absolutely. I don't think there's anyone here who'll say he doesn't want to be a advocate for their rights and their rights. But what's more important is that we, as advocates, only have to insist on two things, which is that the laws are implemented and that the obligations we have made, including the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, be met, that we fulfil the obligations we have made and that the laws are implemented. Everything in the laws, everything in our obligations, or ratification of the conventions we've taken over, we just need to implement it, and unfortunately we're not always good at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8881	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8882	Thank you very much. Absolutely, absolutely that when it comes to that question. I just wanted to talk here about that while we wait for this solution when we're talking about what you're talking about, that we as local communities and regional and local, can at least compensate a little for that part of the process that's always too long, which is always difficult, but here's at least one way we can let these people know that, that we're here, that we want to be part of that story, not only when we're talking one day in HS or one day in our JLS area, but that we have this feeling expressed and that it's part of our habitat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8883	The next replica is distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8884	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you can truly be content and proud in Osijek. Last year you opened an institution of praise with the joint resources of 3 ministries along with the largest funds of this city of Osijek where children with developmental difficulties and adults can have different services and education and work occupation activities, and also excellent cooperation with KBC Osijek where you have, where the diagnostics centre is co-financed by the funds of this UNICEF. Therefore, I am glad that this assembly has started to talk about what can be done, but what should be done from the local level to have a full picture of the care of all our citizens no matter what the problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8885	So here's the rest of me to agree to everything you've said and to carry on absolutely, so it's not just a reference that we're going to highlight one day and then until the next one of those reports, none of it. I absolutely agree with everything you've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8886	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8887	Here's my thanks, Vice President. Here's my condolences for your uncle, Your Honor. You said you were coming from the top of the local government, and if you could tell us what you've done lately to allow people with difficulties to have a better and better life? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8888	Thank you very much. We've heard of an area office that's open in the city of Osijek. What might still be going on and the proposing of what you were talking about, today technology has progressed and things that were once unattainable, especially when it comes to undersighted persons, blind people, today computers, programs and everything that goes along with this very, very advanced, and I think that part of the money of local self-government must stand out for such associations and help them, not through those regular competitions that local self-government and regional implement through their programs, but absolutely they must be part of the associations that are of particular interest to our local communities and thus speed up the procurement process that they need for their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8889	Thank you. ... The statement was requested by the applicant, the esteemed Ombudsman, for persons with disabilities, Anka Slonjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8890	I'd just like to comment on how further this debate is going on and on about the local environment. I think it is very important that local environments create a local strategy that will outline certain objectives, it is not too many goals, but the goals that are feasible to actually control through their active action plans that they have done every year and that these deadlines and those measures are truly feasible. What is also important is that they have the ability to refer to European projects, to make use of those resources available to those parts of the programme and projects that cannot be covered otherwise. Now we're faced with a pandemic, I have to link it that many projects are unfortunately abolished locally by local units, many associations complain that what has been co-financed should have ended that many have lost funds. Therefore, I ask that it be done to ensure that these funds are not eliminated and those small projects that are of paramount importance for people with disabilities at local level, especially of priority. I would also like to say that it is important and decentralisation not only of activity, but of decentralisation of funds because it depends greatly on our knowledge from mid-to-centre depending on the county to the county that has more money, which have less and in that part shows how much development is, and also the attitude towards people with disabilities. And of course, in its multiple structures where the issues of decision-making are to put persons with disabilities to be part of these councils of yours and of your boards of directors, wherever they may be those who can also make their own contribution to decision-making, especially as far as they concern themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8891	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. The subject of the right person with disabilities is a subject that must not have party colors and are regularly marked for some days, so then I ask the question, we are all sometimes hypocrites, especially those who deal with politics, do we come as politicians to mark Women's Day with breast tumors just to take pictures and leave? Where are your activists advocates? They're empty, I wish I'd made a mistake, they're empty benches today, there's fewer MPs and MPs than yesterday when it comes to gender equality, and that's a message. It's a message that people with disabilities today see in this House of Representatives. How many people with disabilities do we have between MPs and MPs? Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic. I work as a psychiatrist with people with mental disorders and today I will talk more about children with developmental difficulties, especially disorders from autistic spectrum, we talk about the importance of multidisciplinary cooperation, Mrs. Murganić was a minister, she worked a lot on improving the rights of people with disabilities when we talk about autistic spectrum disorders there are three ministries, Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Science and Education, and sometimes when these ministries are equally represented, it slows down certain processes. We can't be satisfied, certain shifts have been made, some of them mentioned. We talk a lot about above standards from Zagreb, but here is Osijek, KBC in Osijek has done a lot about the health care part of the issue of early diagnostics and early intervention, but this is still not enough, and thank you lawyers for continuing to repeat the subject. Unfortunately, there is not much from the National framework for the screening and diagnostics of autism implemented. Here I now see before me Kika, Domagoj, Mary person, a young person with autistic spectrum disorders and I wonder if we've devoted enough time to them, have we done everything we could or have come just a picture with them when it's awareness of autism? We've got experts like professors. Goran Dingalasevic, who performed a miracle in the area of early intervention for people with autistic spectrum disorders in northern Italy, sometimes seems to me like we don't need his services. So a lot of things are still ahead of us, a lot of things are done and we need to talk about what's been done. Some shifts have been made, but it seems to me that when we talk about children with developmental difficulties, when we talk about adults who have certain mental problems, I think we have a lot more to do, especially when we're talking about autistic spectrum disorders. I won't have much time for people, adults with mental disorders, here as a person who's been working for nearly 20 years in a joint psychiatric institution in the Republic of Croatia, but that doesn't diminish the importance of other psychiatric hospitals such as the Ugljan Psychiatric Hospital where Dr. Renata Sablak Dračevac, has been made many, I would particularly like to stress the importance of working with the social resources, so co-operation with social care centres. There is great help from the rest of the ministry and, of course, city offices when a particular problem arises then let's say if the patient from Zagreb is called colleagues and colleagues from the City Office for Social Protection and Persons with Disabilities, we are looking for how to solve the problem, let's say the problem of foster families, unfortunately the large majority of people who go to foster families from Zagreb go 80, 100 km away from Zagreb to foster families, they spent their whole lives in Zagreb and of course that's the problem, but here are the things that are being solved. Those of us who do this to us seem too slow, but all of you who do not work in the social and health resort call on us not only to talk about it once a year but continuously.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8893	We have five replicas. She's the first to be respected representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8894	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, in view of your profession, but also your previous debate, and I'm going to ask you a very short question, we are aware that this pandemic when it comes to mental health is really affected by everyone, so I'm curious about the situation in this Covid crisis when it comes to people with mental disorders.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8895	Dear colleagues Maximchuk, here is the same situation where, in this time of the Covid epidemic, we talk much more about physical symptoms, respiratory symptoms, they are primary, but there are psychological consequences of the Covid epidemic, there are people who, for example, while carrying out a measure of self-insulation have certain mental problems such as anxiety, insomnia, panic attacks, we have been as a psych ward from the very beginning because of the inability of physical contact especially in the time of lock down designed on-line programs, so no contact form of help so called. telepsychiatric concerns where from the beginning one-ten colleagues of doctors and psychologists worked only by answering the phone used these social applications to help people, so nothing needs to be dramatic but we definitely need to take care of the psychological consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8896	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8897	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Celić, not to raise you but everyone follows the work of the Croatian Parliament and I think they will agree with me that if any representative, representative in their discussions, no matter what we discuss, touch a person with disabilities or persons with mental disorders, it is you. Among other things, in this assembly and this year there were a number of discussions concerning the impact of Covida-19 on human health. So every time there's a possibility whether or not it's a report, you're always trying to point out how this regulation will affect people's health. So here's all I have three more seconds, can you tell how Covid-19 is going to reflect on, say, PTSD or other mental illnesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8898	Dear fellow Striker, each of us has his own profession, so he's trying to update it. I would also say here that as a vulnerabilitating group of people with disabilities they are also sometimes socially isolated and as such more risky for the development of certain mental disorders. As for this second part of the question, therefore potential psychological problems for Covid patients, some mention the development of post-traumatic stress disorder there should not be thrown away with psychiatric diagnosis, but definitely those who have suffered from Covid, who were on the respirator, could have lasting psychological consequences and could be the most risky group to develop, possibly the emergence of post-traumatic stress disorder.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8899	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8900	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am very glad that you pointed out and asked all of us if we all worked hard enough together to make enough for people with disabilities, especially those from the autistic spectrum. I see that you are very close to the problem with which they are daily, but I am interested in what your position on the process of deinstitutionalising people from the autistic spectrum is because, for example, it seems to me that the system has gone deaf to their needs and their enquiries, here tomorrow, for example, the community of the Autism Association in Zagreb organizes 10 years of organized housing of the residential community and the living community in Mostars, they are left alone 10 years ago, but they still have the same problems. Parents question what will happen to these adult protégés after they die, how to give an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8901	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8902	Dear colleagues deinstitutionalization absolutely yes, but not at all cost, that means that those particularly difficult cases should have a certain form of institutional assistance, but it can't be 90%, it should be as small as possible. Definitely transforming the center for autism as it exists in the Republic of Croatia is absolutely necessary and here is colleague Lukačić, colleague of Petrijevcanin and I in the past have been visiting certain institutions such as the center for autism when you see here, we see a lot of problems. These people who work in the center of autism are trying, but they're not effective models, but then we're back again, so we're scheduled for early intervention. When you make an appointment in the area of early intervention, then you have irreversible consequences and a number of those who will need institutional assistance, but I absolutely advocate for deinstitutionalisation. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8903	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8904	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Cellic, here I am glad that you mentioned both persons and all those who have autistic aspectrum disorders. Now, in response to your colleague's reply, you said everything in some way that I was going to comment on, but here's to deinstitutionalization, yes, but not at all, and in the last term, we're both you and me and my colleague, Petrievcan, but we're with the government, here's Mrs. The pleikosa knows that we've had several meetings precisely with associations dealing with people who have autistic aspects and agreements are on their way. Prof.... It's precisely the one that should lead the autistic spectrum into the phase that many people who have this problem can work, can, today don't work [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sure in this mandate we'll solve this problem. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8905	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8906	Dear Representative Lukacic, you are a person who is sometimes hard at work for colleagues and colleagues who work in the ministry, but still slowly, but surely those who were ministers know better, but still change things for the better. I've had the honour of representing HS as a member of the interparliamentary union delegation. There is one famous parliamentary representative from Switzerland, a person with a difficult degree of disability who is very present, who is fighting, we all help Ljubica because Ljubica is the best, best acquainted with the subject. But here, again, I ask my colleague Posavec Krivec well mentioned yesterday that women are under-represented, but also persons with disabilities are under-represented, so those who agree with the lists make sure that persons with disabilities are more represented in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8907	The last replica of the distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8908	Thank you. Dear colleague, I am grateful to you for giving as a doctor, as a psychiatrist, the meaning of the need to involve healthcare professionals or health care, especially in early intervention, especially in the comprehensive approach to some difficulties that are really very complex. You mentioned autistic spectrum disorder. I have argued and I still argue that social care cannot be the only one that will fully address the problem of people with disabilities, and that these numerous criticisms, including many, most of the majority and texts in the Ombudsman's report, refer to everything that social care has done, and these are increases not only in number of users but also in number of services, more financial resources by social care, and also in quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8909	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8910	Dear Representative Murganic, you were almost daily on the ground during your ministerial duties and you saw the very good that problems exist, should not run from them, there are shifts, but I say we can't possibly be together, satisfied. But what I'm saying is, we have to all go together, there's no left and right, there's no position and there's no opposition, we have to work together. When we talk about issues of health and social care, including these topics that receive certain media attention, which are world-famous, but these are superseded topics and if we work together, then we will certainly contribute to the fact that the rights of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are better and that we all strive towards a society of equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8911	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8912	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, the esteemed attorney with the co-workers, the distinguished representatives of the government. Today, we have a report from the D.A. on persons with disabilities and obstacles they face. We can see from the report that there are almost 500,000 persons with disabilities registered in the register of persons with disabilities on 23 January of this year, 196 609 of whom are women, which is 39.60%, and 300 037 men, which is 60.40%. The report presents the problems faced by people with disabilities. We can see from year to year what these are and what are the problems. There are 11 610 people on the labour market with disabilities, although there are 211 000, the Ombudsman said in her presentation, people who, who are able to work. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The defence attorneys addressed 2172 citizens, 12% higher than in the previous year. The lawyer had 3398 procedures, of which we point out 410 recommendations addressed to ministries, units of local and regional and regional self-government. We see that new conditions are being created for the district offices but here, I will commend that area office in 2018 that started in Osijek for our 5 Slavonian counties, which certainly provided and facilitated the communication of people with disabilities. In communication with representatives of associations and persons with disabilities in my county, the County of Brod-Posavina from which I come, unfortunately they continue to warn me that one of their biggest problems is accessibility or architectural accessibility. There is little awareness of the employment of people with disabilities but not enough, and still employers pay more penalties than they hire people with disabilities, but here we are, all of us who can publicly try to change this situation and bring better and better and faster employment of people with disabilities. Problems occur where people who are employed, people with disabilities who are employed do not have a suitable job but very rarely react to it because they are afraid that they will not remain of course without that job. Many people with disabilities, especially in rural areas, are still not aware of their social rights, but here, this communication should be improved especially by local organisations dealing with and working with people with disabilities, they certainly need to be more in touch because here, surely in rural areas and information, as they already have their own movement problem, much slower and much more difficult than those in urban areas. The drivers of services and the way in which people with disabilities can become aware of their rights, here are certain associations that deal most with these problems and as someone who deals well with associations, I must commend associations from my county but there are also some institutions, that is, the Zlatnik Cekin polyclinic, you have heard of this institution, it deals with early diagnostics, rehabilitation and early socialization of persons, surely we lack capacity in that institution and if we had many more places and many more people trained for work, we would certainly have even more persons with disabilities who would benefit from these services. There are also Radio 92, that's what I think one of the rare radios in the Republic of Croatia, here's the D.A. I'm definitely talking about, there's Regoch's inclusion, Lokomoto, they're all doing a series of educations and a series of actions, we all have to make more efforts together to improve the care of people with disabilities in all areas of their lives. And we're aware there's still a lot of commitment and a lot of work ahead of us. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8913	Replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Striker. He's gone. Let's move on, next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8914	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed Attorney General. Well, I would agree with my colleague, Celic, that I must be unique and opposition and authority in this matter and support the work of the lawyer, ensure the opportunity to work and also be solidarity with half a million of our citizens who are disabled. That we are doing this at the HDZ Club, we are also showing at a declarative level in the sense that our representative Ljubica Lukačić is changing already in the second meeting of the Prime Minister, but we are also showing in practice on many projects, the work of people with disabilities. And thank you, Ivan said that Ljubica has great energy and thank her for that, and I think people with disabilities have an excellent representative in the Parliament who struggles for their interests. When we talk about the rights of persons with disabilities and human rights, this would refer to the right of the third and fourth generations of human rights where the UN Declaration of Human Rights, Article. 23. talks about the right to employment, the right to work and the right to protection against unemployment. Well, just today, two years ago, it was a great pleasure for Ljubica and I to present the first contract for an integrated workshop in the Republic of Croatia, a company called Laptex. Integrated and protection workshops are companies or organisations, protection workshops employ over 50% of people with disabilities, there are 7 in Croatia, the largest Uricho, I welcome the President of Uricho, and they are integral to those who employ more than 40% of people with disabilities. And it is my pleasure to be just as Minister of Labour, formerly, to be able to present the first contract in Croatia for an integrated workshop. There have been a lot of discussions on skills and professional rehabilitation, the Institute of Arts and Professional Rehabilitation was joined in 2015 by several systems and as a central place for art and professional rehabilitation in my mandate as a minister of work, we have strengthened four district offices that also praised the opposition, that we have district offices, I am especially grateful for people in local self-government, in Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka, special thanks and the mayor of Anusic, who has transferred the founding rights to ZOSI, Andri in Split, Zagreb and also Rijeka and local self-government that we have improved both skills and professional rehabilitation. There has been a lot of debate on the subject and the project approach, I agree that the long-term sustainability of finances should be ensured and long-term that they should have stable finances. But also, let us be honest and admit that without the eu funding of many of the social services that we are providing today, and I am primarily talking about personal assistants and programs such as help in the House “Wish,” many other projects that without eu funds would not be possible. The European funds are very helpful and they are project-oriented. But what is the responsibility of all of us and those who are now in the executive power to manage European funds to ensure continuity that, in particular, civil society has no losses in this or that there are no holes in project implementation. We saw an example in the project "Wish" over a billion and a half kuna where the same question was whether it would continue. Phase two, phase three, continues, and this is an example that we must be guided by both personal assistants and all other projects providing social services. Within the European Social Fund, while I led it primarily this social inclusion was over the contract almost twice, one 190% I think today is at over 250% which says enough how much the need for social services is and how much it means to our citizens. In all, I support this report, congratulations to the lawyer on the recommendations, I think we should listen carefully, be more inclusive, be more solid with our citizens and work to ensure a better society for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8915	We have one replica of the distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8916	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavic. I would ask you a question, for what reasons have assistants been put in a position of heavy redundancy where contracts are concluded with them for a certain period of time without a defined deadline, where they are working part-time for extremely, extremely low wages and where is the possibility that their contract is interrupted because of an emergency situation, for example an epidemic on the day when there is no longer a need for their work? Such a definition of a contract on a specific we don't have almost anywhere, their contracts are interrupted every year for more than two months, so you can re-employ them on a specific one, and in fact they will work on a defined as overworkers possible and their whole lives. These are the failures of course of the Labour Act, but they are also the failures of the design of this institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8917	I didn't realize if you're talking about hiring people with disabilities, because when we look at an eyewitness of the number of people with disabilities, so we're discussing now not the Labour Act, we're discussing the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities. When we look at the employment of people with disabilities we have 11,000 employees in the eyewitness, 9,000 were when I was a minister, so it's stable. We still need to make extra steps to ensure employment, especially by supporting protection workshops, integrated workshops, I think a few more contracts are ready at the Ministry of Labour, and the Labour Act will be discussed in particular. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8918	Please don't throw it out of the bench. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr. Pavic. You're free. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8919	The Honorable Vice President has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. 238. Is the colleague Bencic not talking about the subject but is asking something that is completely beyond the report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities and thus showing attitude towards people with disabilities on today when we talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8920	All right. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8921	Dear vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues, attorneys with associates, state secretary. First of all, I would like to stress that the report is transparent, clear, that it is to be welcomed and accepted. I would also point out that in the debates so far, a number of statistical indicators, a series of positive but negative examples have been presented, so I wouldn't repeat it. But I would have started my debate a few 15 years ago, the parish priest, the Holy Trinity High in my sermon, next to an article in the newspaper that said that in one city in the United States, there was a competition of disabled persons and now in that competition barbecue, the first fastest one tripped, fell down, tried to put a brace on his leg again, but it didn't work out very well. And now the next person who came to him to hold him up, came the third hug, the fourth and simply all joined the goal. This is exactly how all of us, regardless of the level of action at which local, regional, national level should all act together. But also in my debate, and on this subject, I would like to touch on a series of poor malignant examples that were full of insult and demeaning HRVI, those who gave the most of themselves, their health, parts of the body so that today we can discuss here. So they were called, insulting, disdainful quotes "The parasites are protesting rodents go, patriotism on four wheels, they're such cute defenders being mobile, which is immobile." Every crisis situation, whether it's a major elemental disaster, a major disaster, a war situation, and the war is the worst crisis situation, gives the people the best and the worst. Our defenders have given their best of themselves, their health and body parts, and whoever has such a relationship with them is not bad but malignant. But today in Croatia, especially in my Varazdin County where I come from, there are a number of bright examples. First of all, the secondary vocational school in which the protection workshop operates, employs 25 people, of which more than half of them are disabled persons, on the very same good teaching approach, so students can acquire knowledge and experience that is important to them later in their profession, and also work with people with disabilities. Second, the court of Thrace. Director Adam Pintarić with his team and, of course, down with local municipal leadership, is currently preparing a project called "Adjustment of the Trakoscan court space for accessing and moving persons with difficulty in moving". Trakoscan Castle in my opinion is the most beautiful Croatian castle, culturally well, many place it among the 10 most beautiful castles in Europe and of course one of these initiatives to be available to people with disabilities is commendable and I hope that support for all of us. Also the Spinal Centre of Varazdinske Toplice, it's not a local project, it's not a regional, county, it's a state project. No, come on, I won't say weeks, but the month that my colleague Ljubica doesn't ask what stage we're in with that project. Here I can now point out here that in 14th 10th, all deadlines for appeals should expire, that we should then learn about contractors and thank God after 10, 15 or 20 years. The project should be launched. Here, since my time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8922	Now, you have four replicas, the first distinguished representative of Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8923	Thank you. My colleague, the spin center, you come from Varazdin, I have information, today there have been talks about decubitus, and that's the problem we know for a long time, the spin center is expected, you should choose the contractors, but I have information that they are provided and the means to equip the spin center, which means that soon we could really see a new spin center that people with spinal cord have been waiting for many years. Can you tell me what you know about the expensive phase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8925	Thank you. That's exactly how my colleague Lukačić, as I have already pointed out, rarely when it comes to last week not asking what is wrong with this project or investment. This year, a second competition has already been opened because the first tender, the bids were far above expectations, and the cancellation, and here it is now starting with a new one, on 14.10. they should be expired by all appeal deadlines and after that they move along with the signing of the Construction Treaty with the performer. The whole project is 112 million kuna, so the construction part, the equipment, we can say the key in our hands, it's missing 24 million kuna. However, what I am informed now takes talks between the institution, the Ministry of Health and the government to get rid of it and, of course, through 2021 and '22. from the budget of the Ministry of Health would find these funds, or every year, of the additional 12 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8926	Next replica of the distinguished representative Ljubica Maksimchuk
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8927	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague, of course, you spoke as a Croatian defender about the defence population or the problems that defenders or HRVI face and mentioned the natural health resort in your county. How do you comment that the death rate in the defense population is much greater than that in the general population?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8928	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8929	Thank you. Well, in my own private discussion, I emphasized that war is the scariest thing that can happen to mankind, among other things, I am a witness to it. Imagine a small mine, a ant popularly called "television" is bigger than this, as much as it can ruin human lives. So when that mine of words exploded one of my colleagues died, two of them lost both legs, two of them without one, and one of my colleagues patched up. And you've been wondering your whole life why they didn't, why did it all have to happen? And all these war horrors as long as we live, we'll be wearing these scars, they're visible on the body, and on the soul, and you, and on the soul, these scars on the soul are often much scarier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8930	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8931	Thank you, Vice President HS. You mentioned Croatian defenders as well. Today with a 29-year-old detachment. when we know when the aggressor went to destroy actually everything that is Croatian, they had the strength and courage and created the free independent state in which we live today. Unfortunately, there are also people who speak ill of them, but it seems to me that they are the people who are classified in Vienna or Munich combat. And here, I would like to highlight here today when we soon mark the Day of Remembrance both on Vukovar and on Skabrnj and on all the victims of the Homeland War that the Croatian defender wants Croatia to love him in the way he loves his country and in the way he courageously set out to free and create an independent state of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8932	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8933	Thank you. Dear colleague, it has been 25 years since the war and today more than half of Croatian defenders say so in the system today does things, creates, builds his local environment in which he lives. You have far, far more positive examples than negative ones, unfortunately they're always in the focus negative, but if we were to sum up and appreciate everything we value this positive part, the creative, the construction would be far, far, far greater, or mean this smaller part of the negative to be seen. You just look when the defense cooperative fair is as hard as our defenders are here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8934	The last replica, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8935	The Honorable Chairman, your Honor, has one thing that is tied up, you mentioned the defenders no, I remember well one discrimination that existed among the defenders but which all happiness no longer exists. As a member of the 128th Croatian Army brigade, I was on a face-to-face war with my comrades from the 9th Guard, you see at that time that I lost my leg on the battlefield that I wasn't this lucky, and also that it happened to a colleague from the 9th Guard you see my compensation would be several times smaller than a colleague who was a professional, so he didn't leave this city or his job to go to war. It's fortunate that this discrimination has been resolved. What matters, however, from what we've all been fighting in this, which is that we've been fighting [[Intruder: Time.]] First of all, for the democratic state, free and independent [[Intruder: Time.]] And that means that we really need to take care of our accounts as defenders right now. [[Intruder: Time.]] that all Croatian citizens without legs have the same rights, and that the rights of defenders are honored in the same way as before, but the same as no Croatian... [[Intruder: Time sir.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8936	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8937	Your Honor, I have just pointed out in my debate that the defenders today, if you followed the reply to the replica, more than half in the system, one such good example is you, still working and creating, building our country to be better, better. In my debate, I cited 3 examples of the Varazdin High School of Professionals, the Trakoscan Court and the Spinal Centre of Varazdinske Toplice, which will not only be used by defenders or Croatian military disableds, it will benefit everyone. Let's say this initiative around Trakoscan Court, I think it's a great initiative, that it's to welcome to allow people with difficulty in moving so that they can visit that lake, that they can climb up into the castle and everything else that goes along with it. Here's the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8938	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8939	Dear Vice-President, esteemed attorneys, representatives of the government, respected MPs and MPs, I believe that the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities is complete, that the difficulties and challenges of working with people with disabilities can be seen, there is great work and the insistence of the office, but the fact that you say that in the last 5 years there have been no shifts in relation to deinstitutionalisation and in many ways. In the past 5 years, no state home has been transformed into a community service centre while foster care is considered outside the institutional service. According to the Social Care Act, housing cannot be considered outside the institution and it is not. In the home transformation process, a certain number of users were moved into foster care and respecting all the individual cases and dynamics of relations in foster families, I personally became convinced in examples of good practice. I agree that greater autonomy and a sense of self-life have persons with disabilities living in an organised apartment, a home for adults or with the support of another person. As I come from the welfare system, I personally visited both persons living in an organised apartment and in a home for adults or in foster care, and I am aware of the advantages and disadvantages of life in all three ways of accommodation. Each case should be observed separately and respected by any person with disabilities. We also need to understand the weight of living in homes under epidemiological measures where association and measures to families are limited and we will certainly discuss this in the 2020 report. It is also indisputable that people with disabilities want to stay in their families and homes as long as possible and use it outside the institutional service. I know very well that people with disabilities are spending a personal disability, aid and care allowance unfortunately on meeting the basic needs of life, while the purpose of this social inclusion fee is the community. Social protection as you state in the report is the area in which you receive the highest number of complaints from citizens and this concerns the lack of services available in the house, escort and care services and a low standard of living persons with disabilities. I must mention here, as already mentioned today, the slowness and longevity of the art procedures in the institutions of art, in the pursuit of compensation, which is caused by persons with disabilities, especially children for difficulties and their parents. During the last year, the artisans waited for a person for up to a year and there are periods in the Office of Arts when the witches and external associates of the craftsman were only based on medical documentation without the presence of the disabled. Unfortunately, because of the dissatisfaction with the finding and opinion, complaints about solutions are filed, and the competent ministry is making solutions to the appeal of a period of 3 months. to 3 years. These are all long-term procedures that directly affect the lives of people with disabilities, or as it says in the report, that there is a strong perception of the public that witches actually determine the fate of a person with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. I give full support to the Ombudsman's recommendation to reduce the number of control skills whenever possible, to level the criteria. The report states that there is a particularly visible lack of system solutions and here talks were particularly related to children with damage or from autistic spectrum. It is known that there are not enough services and that parents and children with difficulties are especially children from the autistic spectrum left to themselves. There are not enough rehabilitation services and no professional activities as especially educational rehabilitators and logos. So as another reason for the same emigration of the young family of the Republic of Croatia is the lack of service for early rehabilitation programs for children with developmental difficulties. Unfortunately, the programs and support and services children and parents will receive in developed countries are immeasurable in view of our opportunities for moving out of entire families. She would take advantage of the opportunity and point to the problem of discrimination faced by people with disabilities. It is a devastating fact that out of 211 078 people with disabilities in working age, only 11 610 people were employed. Even more devastating is the fact that these employees experience discrimination at their workplace and the report appears to be an example. We as a society, Employers, we must be aware of the equality of persons with disabilities and the fact that a person employed or employed a person with disabilities must not be treated as the mercy of employers [[Santer Invader: Time.]] That's what I support, all right. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8940	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8941	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would repeat the debate I had as a member of the Labour and Pension System Committee but first of all, I would say "good", the report is good, and it points to all the improvements that need to be taken and where there may possibly be controversy, not when it comes to the report, not when it comes to it, but of course we will have to, but that is good, we will understand at the moment when we will see how much money is available for the realisation of all these wishes. And that's it, that's politics. And then we'll have to take responsibility, of course, for what I suggest, or what we decide. I will be a little peripheral, but still related to persons with disabilities because it is related to obtaining the right to disability or disability pension where, in my opinion, Croatia and Croatian citizens, because of the system that we have, unfortunately, lose in one piece that I will try to explain and which, during a certain period, we can also improve with certain solutions. So, the person lives, works, becomes unable to work. It doesn't know at first, it opens up the hospital, it goes 6 months, it goes 9 months, it comes to the home doctor, there are bigger problems with the employer whether he's going back to work or not. The doctor himself, depending on the nature of the disease, may not be sure whether it is disability or permanent incompetence to work because it is assessed by the Office of Engineering. For that reason, he's referring to the Office of Arts. Someone waiting in line more, someone waiting in line less, it used to happen that people were waiting for art for a year, a year and a half, somewhere relatively fast, even within a month, not getting into work and discretion of the work of the institute, but it's been more than two years since the date of submission of the disability pension application. So it has been over 2 years and how Croatian law is acquired very easily because according to Croatian rules, a person must have 1/3 of the working age to have the right to a disability pension. Given that we have a theoretical working life of 15 years, that is, a condition for a minimum retirement pension, so you have to have a minimum of 5 years of internships. Where does the catch come from? If this person is a thank God, unfortunately we are a country that has a lot of people working abroad or working abroad and then when applying, they also indicate that they worked in Germany, Austria, Italy. Now there's a problem, there's a problem because when these countries pay off the proportion of contributions paid in those countries as a condition, they don't just have a question of disability, they do. the concentration of the internship. This means that they normally require that 5 years ago from the day of application, they must have at least 3 years of effective training, which is not sick. And then they lose that right because we have a different procedure. If we change the procedure in such a way that it is sufficient for a family doctor to apply for disability pension and then to refer the pension insurance to a person to an artisan then we are given time in those countries where there is a condition and a concentration of internships. In that way, our insurance company doesn't have to wait for the terms of retirement that's one thing, the other we're providing him with more money for a life that doesn't come from ours, let's say so in the pension register. So I'm appealing to think about it. I know I'm speaking peripherally, but what Mr. Cellic said here, here to us parties so there's no point in talking about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8942	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished MP Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8943	I thank the Chairman for his words. I welcome everyone on behalf of the promoter. I can also praise the Attorney General's report on persons with disabilities, especially what I think and, as my colleague Bencic has already pointed out, that these reports should also not only be all that is good but also what is not good and what are challenging still, not to say problems, and especially because I think that lawyers should all be warned in particular, meaning not to speak here on behalf of the Government, not to talk about the official policy of the Ministry and the Government but to speak on behalf of persons with disabilities, because lawyers or the Attorney General's Office protects their rights and then on behalf of them and should speak for themselves. I think there's often this discussion of some kind of discourse that I think is out of date, where somehow people with disabilities are still pushed a lot into some kind of social society, so to speak, where people with disabilities are thought to be protected. I don't know who or what, and at least I agree that they should be protected from themselves, and I think that we should generally see more of them as persons with disabilities as equal actors, not patronise them, but in some equal way in partnership with them also develop policies towards people with disabilities because, of course, people with disabilities are not subject to these policies. So, together with them, we should develop and solve these problems, and there, colleague Bencic also mentioned the problems of a particular debate that we could open, for example, about fostering people with disabilities in which it does not work. We have a problem and capacity with the very inspections that should control such families, but also special institutions. It seems to me that from this perspective, we continue to go towards this kind of social protection, and generally so in some patronizing approach to people with disabilities instead of giving them some money and resources that they can decide how to use themselves to create greater autonomy and independence so that they can be equal actors and members of society. The question also mentioned is also different fees and problems, I will not look back on it now, but I would like to refer to a part of the report that speaks about legal problems or things that have not been settled in legislation, which are above all the Law on an inclusive supplement and the Law on a personal assistant, this is clearly highlighted in the report itself. I will remind those who have forgotten, some have said that this is not a debate or the subject of the report, and I see that because it is in the report, that the project personal assistant in Croatia started in 2006, that the Law on Personal Assistant was in the draft 10 years ago when HDZ was even in power, that we listen for 10 years that this Law on Personal Assistant would be adopted, that we can look at example Slovenia where, for example, the law where they can have assistants from 30 to even 168 hours, where if we had a Law on a personal assistant, it would be legally a person with disabilities and we wouldn't have to fight for it through projects of associations. And we've heard from the D.A. what he thinks about designing the policy itself towards people with disabilities. I will mention it just like this to draw up an article that I found from HINA where it says "The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity", you remember when it was the name of the ministry "three years of carrying out a pilot project", since it was 2009. "a personal assistant for people with the most difficult type and degree of disability. But the adoption of the law will significantly increase the number of working hours of assistants per month which will directly affect the quality of life of persons with disabilities, said HINA's Ombudsman for people with disabilities, Anka Slonjak." So in 2009, we had a working group that I know only met once, the Minister's statements say that it doesn't seem like we can expect the Law on a personal assistant and I really think that from this perspective I'm glad that it was mentioned in the report and highlighted as a problem, but I really think it's high time we moved on to action and showed the political will to really improve the status of persons with disabilities in this... society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8944	Time. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Posavec Guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8945	Thank you, Vice President. Well, you've noticed that we have a problem with the slow adoption of laws that should be proposed by the government and the competent ministry in the first row of the Law on Personal Assistants was announced by the end of last year, and we still don't have it in the draft if I'm not mistaken. Furthermore, we have a problem that personal assistants are de faco projects of associations, and these associations don't have enough capacity and strength to deal with and write projects, realising and providing everything that is provided for in the description of personal assistants, and then on the other hand we have this big and never open question of an inclusive supplement that, let's say, is it all open, expensive project for the state, but, is there political will, is there any strength, do we have a strong budget to really sit together and say, is it time for the law on inclusive addition?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8946	Yeah, thanks for this replica. I mean, I don't have much to say, I just have to admit, it's clear that it's about money, it's clear that some financial means, but if some law is promised for more than 10 years, and even in the term of last government, I mean, I'm going to give a good example where it can be seen that within some and political worlds and parties, you can act legally in the direction of people with disabilities. For example, when we had the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb, not so long ago, when we decided on who, who would be freed from those 20% of the building's participation, the first bill of law was that it was exclusively the Croatian military disabled, we eventually came to a legal solution, we also opened it on the Committee on Spatial Planning, so that they would be all persons with disabilities. So, I really hope we're not just going to look at that same, same situation next year in the defense attorney's report that there's no law on personal assistant or that there's the law on an inclusive supplement, which, for the time being, according to the legislative government's proposal for next year, looks. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8947	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8948	Here's my thanks to the vice president of HS, the esteemed guardian for the children, with persons with disabilities, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers. Here, we have the Attorney General's report for people with disabilities and I want to thank you for sitting here all morning, putting up with us and listening to us and making a report that is so transparent, clear and understandable. I'm not going to talk here about the prejudices in our heads when it comes to people with disabilities because we know that the court can change, and prejudices are much harder. So here I'm going to try to say something about examples of good practice from the Zadar County that I come from. It is extremely important that local authorities understand and feel the needs of disabled people and that actually priorities for disabled people are at the top of planning and carrying out certain activities. As I come from a system of education and education, I would like to say here what has been done for people with disabilities, whether they are teachers, whether they are students. Ten years ago, we didn't have a single elevator, not a single lift ramp, and today we have at most schools where people with disabilities attend it. It would be better if there were no people with disabilities, we would be happier, but unfortunately they are there, they are part of our daily life, and this time I want to thank both the city of Zadar and Zadar County, which they have always been able to find certain means to install aids, so that students can attend classes more easily. This also applies to the University of Zadar because we are witnessing today that all disabled persons can regularly and successfully study and attend classes. Here I'm going to mention three things that are important, and that's, firstly, assistants in class. We in primary schools in Zadar County have 103 assistants in training and 23 assistants in secondary schools. So everything was done to make our students feel good during the teaching process and to be involved in the system of regular education and education. The other thing, too, are elevators and hair raised ramps. We in all of Zadar County’s secondary schools have built-in elevators in which a person with disabilities, and in one elementary school she has all the resources and helps to help students of a disabled person to attend school regularly. Third thing, Mocire Center, we've had a lot of problems with that center in the last 10 years. I hope, here, there are the representatives of the ministry, which is the secretary of state, who I also thank for having done everything she could to finally see the light of day. The Mocira Centre will invest 75 million divided by 31% at the Ministry of Science and Education, 19% on the city of Zadar and 50% on the Ministry of Social Care. Now there are public procurements in progress for equipment and I believe that soon this centre will be open to all our users and also, I want those people who have had an accident in life, to feel good and to have this new space give them all the care they can and to feel much better than they were in a few places today will now have one quality space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8949	Thank you. We've completed an individual discussion with this. The final debate on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement has a distinguished representative, Stipo Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8950	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. What I said at the end of my first exhibition for wartime military disabled people that I would like to equalize civil disabled people, that's what I was saying from my heart, in me you'll always find an ally to support it in the Homeland movement. I have to mention two positive examples here, and to mention them, I have the consent of the people I'm talking about. A few years ago, Smiljan Jovic refused to contact you for help with his son Marina's work therapy, who is an autist, and needed any advice. Mr. Jovic decided to do something for his Marina, and with the help of one expert in the association, he designed the production of decorative soaps. Through this treatment, several people with disabilities found themselves and felt useful. Afterwards, Mr. Jovic asked one employer for additional work therapy, but Marin soon demonstrated his ability and capacity and the employer immediately began to insist on Marin's employment. And so Marin is employed and in the association helps to make decorative and scented soaps. Your Honor, ma'am. Attorney General, you and I both know Ivana Nicolec, a happy girl like you. The plower is unable to move his hands, wipe his own tears. On two occasions, Ivana Nikolec's girlfriend asked you to start a question about housing units for the most difficult categories of people with disabilities who, like you, cannot move their hands or legs, unfortunately. You didn't answer, but Ivana doesn't give up and tell everyone if I can't help myself, I can. Today Ivana is president of the association "Leptirić" from Metkovic and uses every spare moment to help those children. Being a person with disabilities is no one's choice, but it's a trust that points to extremely brave people. It is a challenge that brings you out because every person with disabilities and a child with developmental difficulties is especially a unique person. Ivana is not a person who needs pity, Ivan doesn't need privileges or benefits. Ivana simply lives and resists all the challenges that the Almighty has put before her. Ivana is the courage I worship. Yet what fascinated me most about Ivana is hers, is one of her thoughts of saying, "As long as I think and decide I am not a person with disabilities," be careful, as I think and decide, in one word she said so much. This is Ivana Nikolec, a girl from Sarić Struga near Ploč, a young girl who inspires many with her perseverance. It's a young girl who doesn't fit in, but stands out. At the end of my presentation, I would say, although I accept this report for people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties presented by Mrs. I would like to ask all of us, in every important decision, in every law we vote on, to remember that in this country live persons who move using wheelchairs, using crutches, people who are deaf and deaf, blind and undersighted, people who live in different intellectual challenges, and finally remember that in this country live persons who cannot move their hands, persons who cannot wipe and their own tears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8951	Thank you. Next final debate, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić, on behalf of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8952	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here at the end of this, I'm going to say this today a little longer debate than usual, I didn't mention in my presentation on behalf of the club the esteemed attorney of course the HDZ Club will support your report. As I said, we think it's good and we all need it to warn us about what it is and to warn us and encourage us, she would say, everything we have to do. We've heard a lot of things here today, a few of us are in the assembly, but I'm not going to particularly point out, I'm still very, very glad that today's debate on the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities has included more MPs than usual. I'm sorry that on the side of the opposition, there's nothing but criticism. And the opposition was able to do something in one period. The witchcraft here today is mentioned several times, many, many times I'd say. So, 2014. We have passed the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on the Single Body of Art, these are key documents. Afterwards, we adopted a regulation on art methodologies, etc. At that time, mistakes were made that we now have to correct. You need to know whatever we say here, until we can pass quality laws that clearly indicate who the person with disabilities is and until we have a document on this, we won't be able to pass the other regulations in a quality way. I know what I'm saying right now is a lot of people may be a little bit vague, but when you ask me now if I'm a person with disabilities, I'm going to bring you all my documents, guaranteed that all MPs will say no, and so when it happens, God forbid some person with disabilities some court procedure she can't prove that a person with disabilities is going to prove once a solution to physical damage, another time by finding and thinking about an art that can't be evidence, lawyers know that, finding and thinking can be just the basis for making a solution. I hope, or I am convinced, that we will resolve this in the term of office of this government. On this occasion, I would like to welcome all the people with disabilities who have been watching this debate, and I expect them to be helpful both to me and to the attorney general. I am sure that the Ombudsman is doing everything possible to help people with disabilities in the exercise of their rights, that I am trying to do, will always be those who are not fully satisfied, and on this occasion I still have to thank the Prime Minister and all the ministers in the Government who, even though, as my colleague Celic said, sometimes I am to them and perhaps a little harder, still listen to me and still do what is possible to bring quality regulations to people with disabilities to be better and better quality. The rest of us are still just working, and I believe that we will make the common forces in this assembly really better and better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8953	On behalf of the promoter, Honorable Advocate Anka Slonjšak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8954	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, and here I thank you all for the debate and for everything you do, and I hope that you can do even more than you do today for people with disabilities, for their loved ones and for all those who are supporting them so that they can be involved in the community and live this life, whether they are professionals or staff like I said or family members. As far as I'm concerned, I'm only staying maybe, I feel like I'm, uh, I haven't answered any questions, but I'd like to point out like this. That as an office, as I said at the end of 2019, we submitted a parallel report or report in the shadow of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities just pointing to the state and position of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia in different aspects, stressing both the positive and the negative and the disadvantages not made from the recommendations addressed in 2015. It will be published on websites, we have not actually published it until we have received a response from the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we have not received it today, but we have received some recommendations that go towards the Republic of Croatia which should be done in order to submit this report that should be submitted periodically. As for general, I would like to say that people with disabilities can't all have the same rights, they can't have linearly all the same because it's not just. Every person with disabilities is for himself, every child with disabilities is for themselves and as an individual and as an individual, until we legally arrange and sublegal acts in a way that you, these persons, really do what they need until we have problems that I've been talking about for 12 years. Not every person can get the same wheelchair, the same quality and the same price, not everyone can get the same amount or the same period of time for an assistant in the teaching for a seeing companion, for not knowing an interpreter etc., we are all individuals, everyone has needs and according to these needs and abilities should decide and bring certain rights as well as a certain type of support. For years we've heard that assistants in the teaching are co-financed in a certain way that they can't be regulated legally. We have experienced that a rule has been adopted on assistants in the teaching and professional communications intermediary as well as all other criteria and other criteria have been introduced inside, but we still have no assistant in continuing in the profession nomenclature, but it will also wait for us for assistants whether it will be someone who will be a carer, an assistant as an escort or some other kind of assistance. What Mrs. Lukacic has finally proposed joint cooperation, I absolutely support it, but I also want to point out to you, given that in a party that is current and the government that simply, by your influence, you are making more of all these laws, or discussions that I am constantly talking about, if we accept jobs and have continued to work on certain changes, there is not only a question of assistance, there is a question of a sign of accessibility. We have an extremely large complaint of abuse and improper parking, we have a problem in general with ensuring this right, about how to get it, it's as much administrative procedure as you do, easier getting a passport and ID card than a sign of accessibility, it takes months. On the other hand, we have the right to release toll payments, and now the highway crossing is not yet said to be arranged for a question for people with disabilities. Everyone would like that smart card, so not everyone can have a smart card some things have to be compensation. We don't have a problem of cross-city transport, traffic, no issue of the county, no question of railways. Yes, there is a shift, we have more and more specific adjustments, there are approach ramps, etc., but still persons with disabilities in Croatia are in many parts invisible people because they simply don't have a chance to get out, they don't have a chance to move, and they don't have a chance to get involved no matter what they want to do or do. And I would like to end up with the word for associations, associations make up one big part of this entire system and we have a big task ahead of us to pass the Systemal Financing Act because as long as we don't have the payment of cold drive and allowing associations to survive and their survival to ensure that we have a problem so far because there is a great danger of abolishing and shutting down associations that today make up an extended hand to the state and many of them provide organisations with priority for children with developmental difficulties and in local environments are the only holders of certain social services provided to those citizens. And in the end, I would like to say that there is a very big task in Parliament, some of you are older, some of you are new, but I think you all need to get as much education and information as possible and visit various institutions, different institutions, associations and discuss issues of persons with disabilities because people with disabilities are part of this society and as such deserve absolutely full attention and support, and as far as the next report is concerned, it will come very soon. Unfortunately, the pandemic of its spell, many people with disabilities are locked up in their places of residence, and it is most difficult for those living in welfare institutions, and I am really telling them that this is very difficult for me to say because I feel how hard it is for them to do everything as a lawyer, to really give them the right to move because I think it is one of the most important rights at this point that they can go out and not live through one incarceration and actually surviving in those institutions. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-09-0.u8955	We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
