ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u9814	We are now going to the 6th exhibition, it is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives and respected colleague Rada Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u9815	. President, colleagues and colleagues. Since the start of the crisis, the Covid-19 government has avoided any parliamentary debate and decision-making on measures in the health system and the economy. The measures brought by the government and the headquarters were unconstitutional and non-transparent, primarily political and party-motivated, and they had far-reaching consequences on both the economy and on human rights and therefore had to be discussed and discussed in the assembly, even in this way, when the debate on interpolation was already planned for late nights, and HDZ claimed that crisis management was all right. It is no wonder that HDZ representatives have already announced that they will not accept the interpretation. But citizens need to know, and the opposition argued, not that the health system was not properly prepared, and there was a time, it was known what was waiting for us, and they themselves talked about another wave of spread of the virus and that the fight against it should be prepared in time. The government did not do so and in the medical and hospital systems there was an increase in the number of covid patients, from September itself to here, and to the collapse and all parts of the health system. And the reason for that was just the unpreparedness to manage in extraordinary situations. Are we getting ready in the back now? How's mental health? What will be the mental health of citizens? Today our high school students are going to the on-line class. What will be the changes in the system? What knowledge will our disciples have? Minister Beroš claimed that the health system is ready to respond to a more severe epidemiological situation than the current situation, which he said is not satisfied, but is proud of the organisation of the health system. There's something wrong with logic. Listen, the system is ready to respond to a difficult epidemiological situation, but with them he's not satisfied, but he's proud of that same organization. What's the status today? Are we going to boast that as always we are the last on the lists of many things, so here we are first on the list or replacing ourselves with Luxembourg by the number of patients. We asked as an opposition to share the responsibility, to share responsibility for improving the current situation, to bring the measures here with the two-thirds majority, to be responsible for what is happening to us at this time, that, we asked for measures to be reported, reported here monthly, not because they did not trust health workers, but for those who were meant to ensure that we were handling the pandemic much better. We have advocated here that health workers are adequately rewarded for their demanding, exhausting, overtime and unpaid work. So the opposition cannot be accused of not understanding the state of those who struggle to survive in these times. We are accused of criticism without concrete, that we are without concrete proposals how to improve the management of the covid crisis. It should be said or reminded here that the Green-Left Block Club sent a conclusion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia more than a month and a half ago to adopt and implement a series of measures to mitigate the effects of the Sars-covid-2 coronary epidemic. Of course, every proposal was reasoned, each proposal was reasoned by experts who dealt with the subject, but the conclusion did not come to the debate in the assembly. You can also look at the conclusions, they're proposed and they're still on schedule, we never really know what's going to come here, but the citizens need to know that the opposition here has suggestions that we participate together in trying both the system and the disease. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u9906	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We'll start taking a stand as always the first day of the week. Today we have on schedule 3 points of the agenda and after that a statement on amendments to all the laws discussed so far. It depends, of course, on the dynamics that these three laws will be discussed for a long time, but if the amendments are over by 15, at 15 o'clock, if not, when these laws are finished, then we will continue with the amendments. Tomorrow at 10:00 is the vote, then we'll continue with two points of the agenda and I'll announce to you an extraordinary session that will be held from Wednesday to Friday, so we'll end on December 18th. Let us now take a stand, the first is the respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u9907	Dear President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Key question is whether Croatia is a sovereign state? And the answer is simple, it's not. Croatia has shifted its sovereignty to the EU and sometimes some countries of the world give up their sovereignty when they have some interest in the community. Does Croatia have an interest in the EU, I mean, first of all, economic interest here? This is highly questionable, and the ruling never wanted to, and today they do not want to reconsider the economic framework of Croatian membership in the EU. What is not spoken from this pay phone, and I have pointed out many times and I will point out today is the fact that Croatia is paying EUR 150 million this year for a larger membership fee or about a billion and 250 million kuna. In other words, Croatia today pays 650 million EUR a year in membership fees, which would be around 5 billion kuna, before it was less than 4 billion kuna. At EU annual level, Croatia gives free and free of charge tens of thousands of workers, highly educated labour, our girls and young people going to Germany, Belgium, France and other EU countries. Croatians in Croatia are doomed to buy finished exclusively European products since we do not have production, and we contribute exclusively to our companion in the EU, not to our country and our people. But there is another problem of the EU, which is that Croatia also gave up parts of its territory when it joined the EU, and this is about an economic belt, namely a famous ZERP, protected by an ecological fishing belt. For those who don't know Iceland is 2015. Interrupted its EU accession process. Do you know why? Do you know why? Because it did not suit his fishing sea to become the European fishing sea. Croatia gave up its economic belt before becoming an EU member. 2008 We have allowed all EU members to fish in our international waters on those 24, 23-24 thousand kilometres of square seas. Iceland didn't do it, Croatia did it. What all relevant scientists in the field say is that Croatia loses about a billion kuna annually because Italian fishermen primarily fish there. So let's add another billion kuna to this figure of 5 billion kuna that we give to one specific member of the EU, which is Italy. So much for our sovereignty. Are we sovereign? We're not, and we're going to be less and less. Our Governor Plenkovic or General Governor, perhaps so much better to call him, who manages this dominant, our Croatian, who is in the ranks of such a relationship as Britain treats some of its former colonies, that is the relationship between Brussels and Croatia from Zagreb today, does not care about the sovereignty of our country because to lead he would have done one thing that we of Croatian sovereignty have shown him, and we have also given a representative question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads, it is simple: Does the Government of the European Commission plan to ask the full protection of the IGP? It's not a question of whether or not we're going to declare it because it doesn't change anything. With the declaration of the economic belt, nothing changes colleagues and colleagues and Croatian peoples. The regime is almost the same, identical. But we are opening up the possibility to ask the European Commission for full protection of the IGP. Shall we look? I don't think so. In fact, I'm sure we won't. But we sovereigns will be asking this question as long as we're here, and we'll be here for a long, long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u9908	Injury of my colleague Bačić's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u9909	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Zekanovic, was injured by an article. 238. The HS Rules of Procedure speak of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in relation to EU membership. Namely, I will remind Mr Zekanovic that EU membership has arisen and stemmed from a referendum implemented under the constitution and the outcome of the referendum was binding on Croatian state authority And in that sense, it's completely wrong and incorrect. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, colleague Bačić]] And it's not true that you brought it out here. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u9910	Comrade Bačić, please, you are being warned, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Zekanovic, please choose the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u9911	238th Honored President of the Assembly. So if someone had told the Croatian people what I just said from a pay phone in HS, I am sure that Croatians and Croats would not have voted for EU accession. We were only told about how we could travel freely. Croatian pensioners were afraid there would be no pensions, and no one spoke of billions and billions of kunas, hundreds of thousands of Croatian emigrants in Europe working, building Germany, and not building their own country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u9912	Your colleague Zekanovic is being warned, as is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. We are now going to the 3rd debate, taking the stand of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Nevenko Barbaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u9987	Thank you, dear President HS, colleagues and colleagues. The first-class political event in BiH at the end of this year, so the 20.12th elections in the town of Mostar, following a kind of legal vacuum, skipped two election cycles. What's the reason? What makes Mostar specific, so important to Croats and Bosniaks? Although there were several multiethnic environments only Mostar gained special status with the transitional statutes, the principle of the consistency of the people at the city level applies only to Mostar, therefore the quotas of the council are set for certain nationalities, the possibility of calling for vital national interests is given. It's been a city since '94. Until '96. managed by Hans Kosnik who in '96. and brings up that transitional statute, which is governed by Mostar, the Mayor, the Mayor, the City Administration and the City Council, and retains 6 bridge municipalities. Since such a structure has not worked, after the failed negotiations by High Representative Paddy Ashdown in 2004, it imposes a new statute of the city of Mostar, the newspaper is to abolish 6 city municipalities as JLS, but they are detained as election units. According to the new statutes, 6 former city municipalities are elected to the city council by 3 councils, while 17 council members are elected from the city list. It is important to note that 3 municipalities with a marked Bosniak majority and 3 municipalities with a Croatian majority are from the part of the town. Such election quotas have led to illogicalness, e.g. The Yugoslav municipality with 8,000 inhabitants, predominantly Bosniaks elects 3 council members to the city council, as well as the Yugoslav municipality with 24,000 majority Croats. In 2010, the Constitutional Court accepts the epilation of representatives of Croats, requires the correction of such anomalies and gives a deadline of 6 months which lasts until mid-2020 when political representatives of Croats and Bosniaks reach an agreement to amend the Election Law for the city of Mostar. It is also important to point out a kind of turn of Bosniak policy when it comes to Mostar, which has been advocated by the single city since 2004, the full integration of all institutions and the abolition of 6 municipalities. However, the results of the last elections, the 2013 census and some other data such as The number of persons enrolled in the first grade of primary schools and their nationality concludes who is the real majority in the city, leading to a complete turn of Bosniak politics, no longer corresponds to complete integration, the hand-to-heart reverse change of attitude also occurred with Croats. So, according to the new Electoral Law, 35 city councilors are re-elected, of which there must be 15 Croats, 15 Bosniaks and 5 others. This time 13 councilors are selected from the city list, 3 city areas or 3 constituencies predominantly inhabited by Bosniaks, where about 40% of the population in Mostar is elected, Mostar is elected by 9 councilors, and 3 election units predominantly inhabited by Croats where 58% of the population is elected by 13 council members. It is indisputable that 15 Bosniak councilmen will be elected by two coalitions of Bosniak parties. It is indisputable that there will be 15 Croats in the council, the fearsome Dahl will all be elected, selected from 4 lists of Croatian parties. The special political game is the selection of 5 council members left because Serbs have no capacity, and I don't think they're interested in filling all five seats in the council. Surely for these five councilmen the others will fight until the last will be the Croats and Bosniaks who have the same this time on their lists. The council elects the mayor, which requires every vote, every mandate, because of so much calculations, tension, mathematics. These elections must create conditions for the city to function in an institutional and functional sense although there is no magic wand prosperity does not come overnight, these elections must bring progress, bring better and nicer Mostar. The thesis is that Mostar is a divided city, but less divided than 25 years ago, the rest have nothing to share as for example. Banja Luka, Sarajevo, as well as many other cities in BiH. Almost the opposite concept of not so long ago or certain political passing is a logical thing, but must not be a weight. Mostar is a city where you must live together. And finally, why are these elections in Mostar city of exceptional importance not only for the Croats of Mostar? What makes Mostar so important to the Croats? It is the only major city in BiH and Croats are the relative majority, where the university is located only in Croatian language outside the Republic of Croatia. Mostar is the centre of the cultural, media, religious, health and health institutions of the Croats in BiH, the economic centre of Herzegovina. That is why these are one of the important elections for the Croats in BiH, as historical ones like to say on the road to ensuring a lot of equality and survival. I believe that the electoral body of Croats in Mostar is aware of the importance of going to these elections and supporting lists with a Croatian omen Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u9988	Thank you. We are now going to take the 4th position, it is the respected representative Katarina Peovic, now speaking as an independent representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u10044	Ladies and gentlemen, unless Minister Coric resigns immediately or Plenkovic resolves him, it will be an additional insult to Croatian citizens. After a series of affairs in which the Committee of Conflict of Interest now participated, Minister Coric ruled that by voting on the position of his godfather in the management of HEP, he acted unwittingly. However, the commission, perhaps out of ignorance or for the sake of superficial access, has ignored a far more fatal fact, which is that the HEP Assembly, which means the most important body in HEP, is only one man, and this one is Minister Tomislav Coric himself. Djoric acts as if HEP is his private firm. The nepotism of the ruling powers in Croatia has no shame or borders. Why is nepotism with corruption one of the greatest halls for a democratic and civilized society? Because important social positions are assigned on the basis of family, friendly or non-transparent grounds, rather than knowledge and ability. When a student of Elektrotechnics hears that the godfather of a minister has become a member of the HEP administration, he loses his motivation to learn, work and have results because he can be the greatest genius in the world, but he will not achieve anything unless he has a minister for the best man. And here we come to a key problem of governance in our country, either in politics or in the economy, in health care and in other areas. Management places are not equipped with capable, moral and those who have results, but also have godfathers, relatives, children of former UDBA officials, communist officials, etc. And then we wonder why, for example. state-owned companies pay so little into the budget even though they have a monopoly on the market. Why do doctors, cops, and teachers have such low wages? The answer is always the same, nepotism and corruption. Simply those who behave key duties in Croatia are not capable but are similar, and the incompetent do not produce results. That Coric is involved in corruption, we know that from the Krš-Paden case, and now we know that he is conducting a non-proprietical policy. Some may recall that Tomislav Karamarko had to resign as HDZ president and deputy prime minister because the Committee for Conflict of Interest found him guilty. In the late '90s, Franjo Tudjman resolved the Minister of Transport Lužavci because of the crowd and because of the poor organisation of the ferry line towards Novalja. I would like to stress with this that in the late 1990s Croatian politics had a awareness of political responsibility and its importance for the democratic development of society. Croatia 2020 First of all, she should not have such big affairs in public life, but not even the ignoring behaviour of political powers versus her own citizens. Coric would be extremely smart to resign himself and in this way he may retain the minimum of his own dignity, and if Plenkovic does not do so, he must immediately resolve it. If neither, nor another, will be just another evidence of the government's irresponsible, corrupt, anti-European orientation. Dear friends, we must not and will not give up on our beautiful country. Nepotism and corruption disappear when the functional rule of law, and it has no alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u10172	We are now going with the 7th exhibition, respected colleague Dalia Oreskovic on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u10173	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Last Friday, we discussed memberships in tourist communities, and I pointed out that I believe they should be completely abolished. Moreover, I pointed out that not only membership fees but also a system of tourist communities as it is today, because those functions performed by tourist communities can be much more rationally designed and organised in a different way. The abolition of this parafiscal burden, with the abolition of mandatory membership and compulsory membership in the HGK and the HOK, would also be the most effective rapid measures to help the fallen economy. On Friday, I began my presentation with the point that the government is ruling through its bill proposals, and then by force of opportunity and HS deals with trinkets and topics that should not be dealt with as membership fees and heights of any taxi instead of finally starting to deal with the system. In doing so, they imagine that, for example, by changing the height of taxis in either the tourist communities or the compensation for the generally useful functions of the forest, they will deceive anyone and cloud our eyes to take care of how to prevent a further decline in the economy. So what economies need and it is the first and most important measure, it is a systemically well-designed and organised state, a well-organised state. We are far from making Croatia that way. The second measure is a state in which there is a rule of law and a trinity of government. The system of mutual brakes and balance, of which we are light years away. It is evidence that contrary to our provisions of the constitution at the European summit, instead of President Zoran Milanovic, we are represented by Janez Janša and no one. On Friday, the chairman of the House of Commons held me at no cost and interrupted me in my presentation, and then went on to call on the Rules of Procedure with a warning when there was no need or place for it, so today I will repeat what I think is important for this speaker. And without the crown there was no time, and perhaps the last chance, the last train to think about how to propose the state, how is it to redecorate that it serves the interests of citizens and the economy better, and less the interests of major oligarchic party structures? In countries and societies where there is a minimum of elemental responsibility for the general good and for the public interest, they also call for cooperation and for the action of all the healthy components of a community to find a way out in a constructive dialogue and to take timely steps in the reform of the system, in all its segments, and to prevent those shocks and negative consequences that the fight with the pandemic of the virus's coronary is inevitable. HS is the key and most important place in which such discussions should be started and should be conducted, so now let's ask ourselves why there is no such debate in HS? Well, because HS lost his constitutional role. Perhaps that constitutional role has never been built or established until the end. It is possible that in the section defining the position and tasking the HS constitution, a dead and lifeless letter on paper, as it is in many other segments and issues. Maybe we've never actually set up a country fairly and built it to the end, but now it's time for it to change slowly. HS is a representative body of citizens and holder of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia, and its basic and basic task is to control and oversee the work of the government. Does the actual parliamentary majority have any power and any power to control the government? There isn't. The head of the party in power is the only controller and the only one, the only authority over any other government. The subjective mentality, service and service to the party chief have turned HS into a space of barren monologues. And this is not the pang of an opposition political party, this is a warning that in such a social and political environment our common state results are barren. Through their relationship with the opposition's request to establish an investigative commission, by humiliating the opposition to the request of the government for interpretation and responsibility in countering the crown of the crisis, through living above the powers that prevail in determining the dynamics and order of debates, the government has shown its alienation from reality. And the increase in the number of infected, the increase in deaths at the end of this year shows a creepy end. Because of the way political life is taking place, the direction this country is taking is also the perspective of our common future. I warn that our system in all segments has rotted to the core and therefore citizens' response to the elections is becoming smaller and weaker and rather than one day the dissatisfaction of citizens grows to the beginning of the processes and reforms on the streets through dissatisfied citizens, I call for the process of reform in HS to begin already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u10174	This brings us to the end of the presentation of clubs and independent representatives, and we will now move to agenda points. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative of Nikola Grmoje will speak. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u10191	Thank you. Here's a colleague and a colleague, I'm going to make a little introduction this week on behalf of the MOST Club. Some colleagues have already talked about topics that will be on the agenda, it is a special announcement of the IGP. I would like to express once again on behalf of the Most Club the satisfaction that after many years of our struggle and persuasion, not only us but also those who preceded us, from fellow Tadic who here assured HDZ that it is necessary to declare the IGP to other parties, and then means through these 5 years. The MOST, which has consistently convinced HDZ that it is necessary to declare the IGP and here is finally the turn. A fellow Bačić who assured us that it was unnecessary, that this was a populist move, finally came to the right side and I am glad that you are on the right side of history and on the side of the Croatian people and that we will vote IGP together here in HS. The subject also comes to us from the House Loan Subsidisation Act. I remind you, and I would like to warn the ruling, as we have consistently warned you of the IGP for years, that you have promised to abolish the first real estate tax, 4,000 young people have submitted a request for subsidisation of property purchase via APN. It is 4,000 new Croatian families, go out to meet them, you promised it, don't wait with it, you promised in the election campaign and we expect that by New Year's Eve since you called this extraordinary meeting HS to make such a decision. Young Croatian families expect it from you, it is one contribution to their remainder in Croatia. We have advocated all this time, we have even had a program called "The Movement of the Remains" where we have proposed measures to remain young people in Croatia. One of the measures is that, and here we invite you to do it. And finally, a little bit more on the subject. She spoke to her colleague, Peovic, about the workers, she should certainly talk about them, but she should also talk about entrepreneurs and craftsmen. So these people are now, some of them, forced to shut down, unable to do business. What you do is impose on them obligations other than these parafiscal duties that we have countless, impose on them the obligation to pay the fees to the HGK and the HOK. This protects your structures, your people, and these people only take care of how they will preserve their positions and positions of their incompetent bureaucracy in those chambers. You are constantly giving them support, colleague Bačić, because in this way, as you control all segments of society, from our judiciary, which you have fashioned to your own extent, and not to the small man's measure, you frame and use these chambers to have complete control over all economic and financial flows in the country. We don't want to agree to that anymore. Our President Petrov gave you a proposal that, at least during the duration of this crisis, you had abolished these mandatory membership fees, that you refused the government in April of the month, then we called you, then we called you for your write-off, and not the delay, and in the end, you resisted it here, and you finally accepted it. Come on, understand more that everything we tell you is well-intentioned and that eventually you will press from the citizens, and we here at HS need to agree to what we suggest, cancel mandatory membership fees for HOC and HGK. We've also given you legal suggestions and referred them to the procedure. This parasystem can no longer be maintained in this way, give some air to our entrepreneurs and craftsmen, your wages are safe, your syncs are safe, and people are fighting for survival. Understand that once and support our suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u10195	We are now going to take the 4th position, it is the respected representative Katarina Peovic, now speaking as an independent representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u10196	Good afternoon, everyone. Let's say something about a subject that is not often heard in this assembly, about workers. The workers contacted me and the Workers' Front with new problems. We have a new situation at McDonald's, in Kras, in Brodotrogir. At McDonald's, even though workers work throughout the crown, there seems to be no Christmas Day, no collective contract, and workers are treated as slaves. In Kras, although the Pivac brothers promised there would be no layoffs, people are retired and every day there are fewer and fewer workers there or, say, contracts don't sign, don't extend, contracts are fixed. Agonia in Brodotrogir has been going on for a long time, for sure 2nd year, and then regular pay defaults. The shiptrogier then had about 1,000 workers to have barely 300 and some workers today, of which 200 workers no longer receive salaries. Note that Danko Končar Brodotrogir took over 2013 and 2014. opened a luxury marina under the promise that a luxury marina would open new jobs. At the time, Zoran Milanovic recited the ballad, talking about the very lucrative and good business. However, Danko Končar has since failed to honor the articles of the contract under which 60 percent of the shipbuilding was to remain, so neither did he really start production there, today there is not a single port of the ship. So the constable insists on devastationing the Brodotrogir and how? So the destruction is carried out by the permanent establishment of sister companies. I've brought here nine pages of print that the workers sent us where we can see how many sister companies were founded there. So, 9 pages with dense letters printed by sister companies, destruction is done by transferring workers to newly established companies, and how the company gets into financial problems by transferring contracts is simply transferred from failure to new ones, and the old company remains only management, let's say one man, and after some time this company goes into bankruptcy with the forgiveness of the debt of other sister companies. So some workers, for example, changed 3-4 even 5 companies without practically changing jobs. To make matters worse, workers say that this really has to happen because two shiptrogiers have a joint external company hired by workers from Shkver and workers working on their firms, one of them is highly positioned, one of them is known to be a party man, meaning HDZ who is allegedly going to run for Mayor Trogir in the next election. Končar is spreading further, spreading to the marina, thus allowing it to visit Hotel Marina in Trogir, the hotel's repairs are also being done by the Brodotrogir workers. To be clear, this enabled him SDP, there is Mayor Ivan Bilic, who is responsible for the rescheduling of the spatial plan and at all the opening of that luxurious marina because before the mayoral post he was the head of the Management Department of Space Management and Communal Planning in Trogir, then he was awarded the post on the Supervisory Board, so that he would mean that when he became mayor and had to sit down from that position, the place on the Supervisory Board of Hotel Meden was his father, so after writing the Workers' Front, it came to the point that the father from the Supervisory Board had to move away after all. However, destruction is being carried out systematically. There is such a situation that even the sanitary inspection is called workers because the hygiene conditions within the company are catastrophic, sanitary knots and the whole company is not cleaned for months, and recently water has been excluded for non-payment. So, yes, the state has approved guarantees for Brodotrogir, but it's the same situation as with Uljanik, so the guarantee is more of a social aid and don't hope to help anymore. Instead of systematic, smart and industrial policies, we have a guarantee that covers work for some 200 people and within 2 years. when, in fact, these workers will obviously be sent outside or working somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u10197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u21790	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as announced now, we will begin to declare amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the ID card, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 13. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representative Zeljko Pavić. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. Dear Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the MUP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u21791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the proposed amendment does not accept. I'm giving the next explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal for a law has only implemented the terminology of this provision of the personal ID law with the provisions of the Regulation on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market. However, the certification model established by the Law on the ID card adopted in 2015. Namely, in most EU Member States where the electronic identity card contains qualified electronic certificates issued by a qualified trust service provider and this model has been accepted in the Republic of Croatia for the sake of the multiple advantages that are achieved by it. The issue of a single issuer certificate shall ensure the minimum cost of issuing an electronic document for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or the price of the identity card paid by the citizens at the time of its departure. I remind you of the price of issuing an identity card containing 2 certificates of 79 kuna and 50 limes. The inclusion of multiple trust providers in the system of issuing the identity card that is now being implemented would introduce additional steps and activities for citizens who would extend and collect the process of issuing their identity card. For these reasons, the proposed amendment is not accepted, the amendment is submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u21792	Dear Representative Pavić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u21793	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear secretary, we know for ourselves that we have more trust service providers and the point of my amendment was that citizens who already have their certificates don't need to buy them again. So if he took a certificate from another trust service provider that this certificate is simply transferred to his identity card and that he can use it that way. This way our citizens will have a double cost. It will have the cost of an existing certificate and a new certificate. Since these certificates are related to the services that you have provided and have actually continued to develop after the establishment of the control identification system for access to e-Citizens and advertise it as a system that will allow for all other services, we believe that all certificates that are still in use should be used and in this way we should actually enable citizens to no matter which side of access and who gave him that certificate that they can reach their services on the e-Citizen system. In addition, certificates issued by other providers serve both for signature and for authentication so that we do not see a problem why it does not want to be put into law. I do not think that technologically this is a problem to collect anything on the part of the current service provider, or the identity card issuer, can possibly collect something on the side of other trust service providers, but this is not the issue of the identity card issuer. So I'd like to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u21794	Thank you very much. And now we are going to make a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. Emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 76. Proposers are the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the representative Marijan Pavliček, the Club of HNS Representatives and Independent Representatives, the representative Darko Klasic, representative Katarina Peović, the Joint Club of SDSS Representatives, MP Furio Radin and representative Robert Jankovics. Then Club of IDS MPs, representative Davor Find, Club of Representatives of MOST, representative Ante Kujundzic, representative Marin Miletic, representative Zeljko Pavić, Club of representatives of the Green-left bloc. HDZ representative club, joint representative Sanja Udovicic and representative Arsen Bauk. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. The Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and the Sanjin Rukavin administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22911	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I would like to warmly welcome you all in front of the promoter and the Ministry of Justice and the administration. As for the amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22912	Let's just take it in a row. We'll go from one amendment to another. First of all, the amendment of the Green Left Block Club to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22913	The amendment is not accepted. Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A valid law. Only for the purposes of nomotechnical compliance so that Article 24 of the applicable law is divided into two provisions. This is the way of Article 24a. The laws transposed specific provisions relating to the calling of a referendum and decision-making, and may be subject to the regulation of a special law. So at this point, it was not possible to regulate the provisions on the local referendum in a different way than whether it was governed by the applicable law, and for the reason that these issues are planned to be regulated by the referendum law which will regulate the referendum as a whole, which is currently in the consultation process with the interested public. As regards the prescribed sizes or identification of the number of signatures required to call a referendum and to amend it, a broad public debate must be carried out, also in the context of the overall regulation of the referendum issue. The identification of the number of voters required to call a referendum in the proposed way of binding to the number of voters who went to previous local elections is questionable and can cause legal uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22914	On behalf of the Green-left bloc representative club, respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22915	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I would not agree what would be questionable if we had a quantitative definition of what was in the previous elections, how many voters went to the previous elections. We know that Croatia has 3.8 million according to demographics, and we know that our voter lists are unsettled. So when you have 20% of the total number of voters, then we no longer know what the total number is. You know very well that there are both the deceased and those who have really moved out and remain on the lists. Our proposal to be out in the last local elections. And your answer does not satisfy that it is planned to do this to the new Law on Referendum, but since we know that you have changed this lex to the fact that, in the last year, the crucial thing is not only the first year but the last one cannot carry out the referendums, and thus you have made it possible for the mayors and mayors to spend their community's resources on their elections, so I believe that we will still welcome this referendum law once the local elections have passed and we will ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22916	2. The amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Most, on Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22917	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons set out in the previous amendment of the Green-Left bloc Representatives Club. As regards the proposal to reduce the number of voters required to propose a referendum for, from 205 to 10%, and the proposal to reduce the size needed to make a decision in the local referendum, it is necessary to consider it in the context of the provisions of the new Law on Referendum, taking into account what this would mean in units with a small number of voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22918	On behalf of the club, the respected representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22919	Thank you, Chairman. So the objective of this amendment is actually to encourage citizens' initiatives and actually just citizens that they can, of course, express what they think, what they want. In fact, by refusing the amendments, you prevent the equalisation of the amendments and the amount of votes required locally from what is needed at the national level. We believe that the same percentage you could have bypassed if you were referring to the new referendum law in a way that you put it into this law. But given the fact that you refused this amendment, we're going to be asking for a vote anyway. For example, in the existing Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authorities and local regional and regional administrations and self-government it is prescribed in Article 6 that the local referendum should be decided by the majority of voters who voted, provided that most of the voters included in the list of local administration and self-government constituents, or the regional self-government unit in which the referendum was called. That rule was laid down by law, but was amended in constitutional changes in 2010. The rule that more than half of the elected local management and self-government voters must participate in the referendum is that the few local referendums that were actually called were not valid because more than half of the voters did not come to the referendum. We'll ask for a vote, and more on the amendment in the next one you'll probably refuse the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22920	Thank you. 3rd Amendment of MP Ante Kujundzic to Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22921	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted, the amendment is identical to the previous amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Representatives and is not accepted for the reasons set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22922	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22923	In fact, such a rule is extremely incorrect for voters who vote for a particular proposal because not only those who voted against the referendum count against them, but also those who did not go out on a referendum anyway. The referendum should not be decided by those who are not interested and who are not interested, and those who do not decide the elections, because let us not forget that in the final elections for this assembly, all 47% of the citizens voted, less than half of them, and the assembly will pass hundreds of laws in this term. In fact, his legitimacy as such is questionable. Instead of the rules that insist on voter turnout, we are actually proposing a quorum of accepting a referendum of at least 25% of voters in the unit of local and regional administrations and self-government. Such a rule is more acceptable and is generally recommended when prescribing the rules on decision-making. And if 24.9% of voters oppose the decision, it means that they participated in a referendum of about 50% of the total number of voters. I demand a vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22924	Thank you. 4th Amendment of Representative Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22925	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted, the amendment also proposes to reduce the number of voters required to propose a vote from 20% to 10%, and should be considered in the context of the provisions of the new Law on Referendum, which is in the process of consultation with the interested public. In the remaining part of the amendment, the provisions of the draft law are identical so that it is not even the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22926	Dear Representative Klasic, he is gone, we will have to vote on the amendment. 5th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22927	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted as with the previous amendments, it is proposed to reduce the number of voters required to propose a vote from 20% to 10%, and to be considered in the context of the provisions of the new referendum law and not accepted for the reasons set out in the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22928	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22929	I won't be long because we all suggest more or less the same thing when so many MPs and MPs suggest, so many clubs suggest the same thing, then we probably still stand in some of the positions they hold and let's say some good majority of those who have also elected these representatives and MPs in the Assembly. So this kind of rejection is a little weird. And as far as the law is concerned, there is a doubt as to why this has not already begun to be resolved here. I think if it's going to be settled in the second law, it's definitely going back to this law. I'm just going to say, so in this text of your amendment and addition, it says that you wanted to increase your dissatisfaction. The parcity of citizens can really be increased by referendums, so which must be made possible and they must be accessible and that is what I think more or less we all agree here, so that what I hope is still going to be appreciated, even though it doesn't seem that way now. We'll vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22930	Thank you. The sixth amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22931	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Article 24b is added. contains 8 items without an indent. In the case of the addition of the word in paragraph 7, which reads as follows: ‘The opinion obtained by the Assembly of Citizens shall be mandatory for the Local Committee, City Quarter or City Corner, and advisoryly for the Municipal or City Council and the Mayor of the City, or Mayor.’ the content of the proposed amendment does not fall within the scope of that provision, nor may it be part of the same, and as regards the content of the amendment itself, the content of the proposed amendment shall be completely unrecognizable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22932	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22933	Well, instead of counting but perhaps we should have concentrated on the content of what was said here. Therefore, if the opinion is obtained from the citizens' assembly, there is a serious justification for not rejecting that advisory opinion in writing. I don't think anything dramatic was really asked here, except that a written explanation of the reasons for not accepting an opinion was offered as some argumentary reason why something was not accepted, but here were the points and paragraphs, so it was probably important to be on the amendment of the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22934	Thank you. The seventh amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22935	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The reduction in the number of voters required to support the proposal for the adoption of a general act and the submission of a petition from 10% to 2% is considered unfounded and excessive, and the question is what would that mean in units with a small number of voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22936	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22937	Thank you, Chairman. So I'd ask what that would mean in units with a large number of voters. So 10%, for example, of the city of Zagreb, is about 70 and some thousand signatures. So you put in this article a petition that was not an integral part of the previous bill. In fact, Article 6 states that citizens are entitled to the representative body of the unit of local and regional (regional) administrations and self-government to propose the adoption of a general act or the resolution of a particular issue from its district and to submit a petition on the issue of the self-government part of the municipality. In other words, often this will be at the will or trouble of the representative body itself, of course, as such. It is up to the representative body to decide or discuss these issues if 10% of citizens have proposed it. So I repeat, and I will look back at the amendment that follows and below. Therefore, in order for the representative body to decide specifically in the city of Zagreb to collect 70% of the signatures, 70 000 signatures for one of the most ordinary petitions in which a particular quarter or a particular initiative would probably be the one to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22938	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22939	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22940	The eighth amendment of MP Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22941	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is identical to the previous amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, and is not accepted for the reasons set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22942	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22943	So, this practice and everything we have on paper has been dead for years. The citizens did not use this because it was set too high as I said the 10% threshold necessary to discuss a topic. Article 46 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that everyone has the right to send representations and complaints, to make proposals to state and other public bodies and to get a natural response to them. So a play or petition is the constitutional right of citizens. It is not the right of the representative body to decide on it or not. It is the constitutional right of citizens and anyone can bear it, has the right to receive an answer. It is therefore not in accordance with the Constitution to restrict the constitutional right of citizens to the presentation or petition, the requirement to sign 10% of citizens in the unit of local, regional administration and self-government. For example, I mentioned to you the city of Zagreb which seems to me to have about 695 000 voters somewhere. So somewhere around 70,000 citizens need to sign what is actually the constitutional right of every citizen. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22944	The ninth amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22945	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The second paragraph of Article 25 contains paragraphs 4 without indents. In the case of a replacement of the words in paragraph 2 in relation to the time limit for the submission of replies to applicants, that period shall be deemed to be unwarranted to be reduced from three months to one month. That period of three months has been existed in the law for many years and has never been questioned, and it is necessary to take account of the dynamics of holding meetings of the representative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22946	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22947	I'm glad you understand when it's said that it's an item. That's very nice. So there's some understanding between us though. What was the intensity of this amendment here was to reduce this unnecessary long term within which the representative body of the local and regional (regional), local and regional (regional) self-government units had to discuss the citizens' proposal to adopt a general act or to resolve a specific issue from the part-round of the representative body of the local and regional (regional) self-government or petition on issues from the self-government of the municipality, the city or county of local significance. So within three months, a certain burning question can be turned virtually insignificant. So if we already succeed that petition, here with so many signatures to bring to the agenda of the representative's body, then waiting for three months is really unnecessary because the issue can be completely turned into a meaningless question after three months and this problem can disappear or cannot react to it anymore. So it seems to me that this was also an affirmative proposal, but that's what it is. I'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22948	The tenth amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22949	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. By erasing the right to default from work, the right of a member of a representative body to be eligible for a lack of employment has not been questioned, and it remains clear that a member of the representative body is entitled to a reasonable absence from work. And with his employer, he will agree on how to regulate the absence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22950	On behalf of the club representative of the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22951	The current law prescribed that members of representative bodies in units of local and regional self-government have the right to default from work to participate in the sessions. These changes you're proposing will have to be negotiated with the employer. It can be dangerous for democracy. The question arises what if the employer is tied to the government in the county town or municipality and simply does not come to an agreement and will not have the right to attend the sessions. And so we ask for an expropriation of Article 9 which amends Article 31. Article 3 We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22952	You're looking for a vote. 11th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22953	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Whether the fee will be determined at the held session or otherwise decided only by the representative body. As regards the determination of the amount of compensation, the applicant considers that the solution set out in the proposal for a law is adequately related to the absence of work, the justification is the same as for Amendment 10. SDP counseling club. In the light of the proposal to regulate the compensation of members of administrative bodies, the institution over which units of local or regional self-government have founding rights is equally unwarranted because the administrative bodies of the institution are not in any way governed by the constitutional regulation governing local and regional (regional) self-government. So neither the compensation of the members of the administrative bodies of the institution can be subject to the regulation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22954	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22955	Thank you, Chairman. So, where a thing can be camouflaged or transferred somewhere else, then call on such acts. I'll tell you one thing, thank God I love so I have two options because it's the same amendment. So, the very proposal for this law in terms of the amount, the upper limit of the amount that someone in the regional administration and self-government can get, on average, at six sessions a year, so it comes out of the council about 2400 kuna. It's a pretty big amount. You'll nod your head, so let's have 1800 a session at six sessions in one year. If 16000 is a specific border for more than 256 inhabitants. So, the people in the Parliament are working for 5500 kuna, and someone is going to be sitting at two sessions where they're going to trillate for two hours to earn the amount that someone's making in the whole month. So, we're going to ask for a vote on this amendment, and an additional explanation follows after you finish and reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22956	Thank you. The 12th amendment of MP Ante Kujundzic is identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22957	Thank you very much, Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is identical to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most and is not accepted for the reasons set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22958	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22959	So, the daily official journal in the Republic of Croatia is 150 kuna plus costs of two kunas per km. That's what everyone in this country has to do. This is about ten times what you provide to the representative body for some two hours that will spend most of the time silently and raising your hands for what someone has suggested. For the purpose of rationalising the costs of this law, we suggest a serious reduction in the fees for councilmen. Our proposal is next. The Member of the representative body shall be entitled to compensation after the session at which he was present in accordance with the decision of the representative body of course. The amount of compensation shall be determined in gross amount and shall not be determined in excess of 20% of the minimum wage amount and determined in accordance with the law prescribed in the way in which the minimum wage is determined. The additional rule should be laid down to ensure that the compensation is paid in the event that two or more meetings are held in one month in order not to abuse the right to compensation. As sessions are now held on average every two to three months, costs would be lower than they are now. The Government's proposal does not offer any significant rationalisation in this respect, except that it is likely that less compensation will be paid to the Presidents of the Council. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22960	The 13th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22961	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is in substance similar to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons set out in Annex 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22962	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22963	So if these changes and complements are bad or less bad, then this item is really criminal. So this article allows the employer to influence a member of the representative body whether one of the waiters will allow his boss to go to the session really shouldn't be regulated by this law. And I don't know why there's been this kind of change if you said it was always a valid reason to be out of work. That's gotta be a good reason to be out of work. And these changes are recognised, what is not to be acknowledged but this has become evident that only certain classes in Croatia can be dealt with in politics and it is not a working class that the employer will need to approve to attend the session. This violates the General Declaration of Human Rights under which everyone has the right to participate in the management of his country. You have these changes put people in a position to have their employers influence on whether they will be in session or not. It's totally unacceptable. I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22964	The 14th Amendment of Representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22965	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. As regards the determination of the amount of compensation, the applicant considers the solution set out in the proposal for a law appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22966	Representative Pavliček, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22967	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected by the promoter. We believe that it is your proposal to compensate the council that, in municipal, city councils, it is not appropriate for the county councils at all because it is fixedly tied to a certain kuna amount. We all know that today what kuna will not have the same value as in five years, and this law if you bring it, you probably bring it for a longer period, and this is how the representatives of the councils are so demoted that the executive power has absolutely all the power we have sheriffs in municipalities and cities, and with this proposal, that is, the amendments and the additions of the law you have completely demoted the legislative authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22968	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22969	I'm looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22970	15th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22971	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Reference to the recommendation of the competent authorities on the gathering of a number of persons in a closed area and decisions of the competent authority prohibiting the collection of a certain number of persons in a closed area is not a place in this law and it is quite unnecessary, it is clear that decisions and recommendations of the competent authorities are required to comply with specific rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22972	Honorable representative Kujundzic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22973	Thank you, Chairman. There was a situation where council presidents determined that meetings would be held by electronic means, while various sports competitions with viewers were held in a specific city or place. So if we underline there was absolutely no need for an electronic session. The bridge suggests that in the event of a special situation involving an event or a certain situation which could not have been foreseen that the law as such was in the article maintaining the session by electronic means. Evidence that, with, of course, such a call or realization of the very electronic session which should be an integral part is, for example, I do not know the opinion of the epidemiological service or anything like that. Since you're refusing this amendment, we're asking for a vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22974	Thank you. The 16th amendment of MP Ante Kujundzic, identical to the previous one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22975	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is identical to the previous amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Representatives and is not accepted for the reasons set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22976	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22977	Thank you. So, if we follow the practice and within the epidemiological situation in the Republic of Croatia and look at a variety of forms of meetings where here is a part of this assembly 41 man definitely that in certain areas there are conditions of space within which a session as such can be held. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22978	The 17th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22979	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter Not divided into indents but items. Adding the proposed sentence would mean limiting the number of seats of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor, and their deputies. The question of justification of such a solution is raised because limiting the number of executive leaders' mandates may be an obstacle to expressing the voter's will to select those candidates who consider most appropriate, including those who have already had the opportunity to choose and whose work they are familiar with. In addition, in the case of a limitation of the number of mandates, the same should be clearly specified, which means no more than two consecutive terms, whether the term of office is reached in both regular and early elections, and the question of the justification of limiting the number of mandates for only one electoral duty at the local level, i.e. for the executive body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22980	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22981	An amendment that isn't just mine, so others have noticed. Why? Because our leading politologists have warned this phenomenon of local sheriffs to build clientelistic networks. You say these are people who are recognized. They are recognized because they have long acted in this function and are very difficult to change. The basic principle of democracy is the shift, thus preventing longtime executives from camping to create their own clientelistic network, from acting like real sheriffs, that's where the supplement could be solved. To this problem when introducing the directly elected mayor, the mayor, the mayor has been warned many times by leading politologists. And now we already have negative experiences. And it's clear to everyone when we tell the local sheriffs, I'm sure in this room and beyond, that we know what faces we're talking about. And when we talk about democracy, then we talk about the fundamental principle of democracy, which is to choose and be chosen, and not what you say that a person with a recognizable right to run from mandate to mandate and thus become practically immeasurable. I'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22982	The 18th Amendment of Agent Davor Nadi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22983	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The Institute of the Temporary Deputy who replaces the mayor, i.e. the mayor who, during the term of office, has been prevented from carrying out his duties by the draft law has been arranged in a different way where the temporary deputy does not become an executive body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22984	Your Honor, I want you to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22985	Thank you. So, all my amendments except amendments under number 35 are related and concern changes towards the detention of two deputy mayors and mayors in counties over 250,000 inhabitants and cities above 100,000 inhabitants, and one deputy mayor and mayor in cities and municipalities with fewer inhabitants than that. However, provided that deputies at all levels are volunteers without compensation regardless of the size of the county, city, or municipality. The only exception would be that one deputy could be professionally acting only in case the mayor is mayor or chief volunteer. So this would significantly increase the savings achieved than in this way, and yet there would be no longer a need to introduce a temporary deputy institute that we consider to be at least dubious and bad. So, all the amendments that I have submitted, that I do not explain later then each of them are linked and depending on the acceptance of amendments under regular number 24 and amendments under regular number 42, except for amendments 35 which will then be further clarified and asked for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22986	Amendment number 19 of Attorney Davor Nadi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22987	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Those proposals shall be without prejudice to the fact that Amendment 18 is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22988	Dear Representative Find, you are already.../incomprehensible./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22989	That's right, I explained, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22990	That's right, thank you very much. Amendment to the 20th Katharina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22991	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The proposal is against the concept of the whole law. The Institute of Commissioners of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, appointed as a temporary solution in specific situations, cannot be equated with the responsibility of the President of the representative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22992	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22993	Well, I don't know how much that is right now exactly how you described it, which is exactly what it looked like 10 years ago in practice. So this was a solution about 10 years ago in practice, so if, before the term of office, the term of office of the municipal chief and the mayor who do not have a deputy in that unit will be called for early elections for the municipal mayor or mayor. I believe that there is no need to place the duties of the municipal chief or mayor under the proposal solely on the part of the Commissioner of the Government of the Republic of Croatia until the early elections are carried out, as in the prevention of the president of the state, in office, means the renewal, the president of the assembly, both at the local level. I think the president of the presidential body can replace the municipal chief or mayor who has no deputies, and before calling early elections, I don't really know what the intensity of this legislative proposal is for amendments except that HDZ doesn't regulate and manage in those areas where it hasn't actually won power. In the event of the prevention of a meal, the mayor or the captain then he will appoint a yes, his commissioner. I don't really see why it shouldn't go to this variant. I say that's how it was 10 years ago in practice. I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22994	21st Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22995	Thank you very much. The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. Amendment 21 gives the right to a deputy mayor or municipal chief in units of local self-government, municipalities and cities with over 10,000, not just 35 to 100,000 inhabitants. In addition, since the duty of deputy municipal chief elected together with him is deleted from the provisions of the bill, the general norm shall be added to the order concerning the provisions of the law relating to the deputy mayor elected together with the mayor and to the deputy municipal chief elected together with the municipal chief. The following amendments to Article 16 now reads: Article 41 is amended and reads: In a county that has more than 250,000 inhabitants and a city that has more than 100,000 mayors and mayors have 2 deputies who choose together in direct elections according to a special law. In a county that has up to 250,000 inhabitants, a local self-government unit that has over 10,000 to 100,000 inhabitants and a city that is the head office of the county, mayor and mayor or municipal chief have one deputy who is elected along with him in direct elections according to a special law. The provisions of this law relating to the deputy mayor elected together with the mayor shall also apply to the deputy municipal chief elected together with the municipal chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22996	On behalf of the counseling club, would you agree? Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22997	We accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22998	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pavliček asked for a break if I understood correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u22999	Dear Members, yes, we are looking for a 10-minute recess on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to further consult on the amendments ahead. By accepting the HDZ amendment by the resolution ministry, Minister Malenica poured ashes because just a few days ago, he said the most important item of the savings was the shutting down of numerous mayors and deputy mayors. This just shows that he had to withdraw in front of the interests of the party, in front of the interests of individuals, and apparently the party interest is far above the interest of the wider community. I think that, after this, Minister Malenica should never put the word "local self-government reform" in his mouth again because by accepting this amendment, we return to the starting position. Regrets the God of all amendments and additions to the law, you better withdraw them rather than further as a Proposer embarrass yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23000	Thank you very much. Are we really going to take a break or do you want to keep going? My colleague Pavlich?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23001	We can keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23002	Okay. Do we all agree? Okay. Thank you very much. The 22nd Amendment of Representatives Sanja Udovic and Arsena Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23003	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. Amendment 22 allows for the right of one deputy mayor or municipal chief in units of local self-government to municipalities and cities that have over 10,000, not just over 35,000 to 100,000 inhabitants. In addition, since the duty of deputy municipal chief elected together with him is deleted from the provisions of the bill, the general norm shall be added to the order concerning the provisions of the law relating to the deputy mayor elected together with the mayor and to the deputy municipal chief elected together with the municipal chief. The following amendments to Article 16 now reads: Article 41 is amended and reads: In a county that has more than 250,000 inhabitants and a city that has more than 100,000 mayors and mayors have 2 deputies who choose together in direct elections according to a special law. In a county with up to 250,000 inhabitants, a unit of local self-government that has over 10,000 to 100,000 inhabitants and a city where the mayor and mayoral mayor or municipal chief have one deputy who is elected along with him in direct elections according to a special law. The provisions of this law relating to the deputy mayor elected together with the mayor shall also apply to the deputy municipal chief elected together with the municipal chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23004	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23005	Thank you. First of all, in my 12 parliamentary years with the exception of four ministers, this is the first amendment the government has accepted for me as an individual. In that sense, I am really worried as Mrs. Boric said. Second. The acceptance of this amendment is, in fact, unnecessarily unnecessary because by accepting the HDZ amendment in a modified form, which Mr Klaric agreed you should not have accepted our amendment then because it will become an integral part of the text as you accepted at the HDZ club. My colleague Udovic and I wanted to remove one illogicality with the elements of urban racism that was in the HDZ amendment, which is that one is valid for cities and the other for municipalities regardless of the number of inhabitants. And our intensity wasn't in the beginning to increase the number of officials, but only if the limit is so great that it applies to cities and municipalities. How much of the border did HDZ say, so I reject all the insinuations and illusions I've heard behind about a big coalition or something like that. Therefore, without accepting the intensity of the amendments, this law would be unconstitutional. Because it can't be that something applies to a city of 10,000 people, it's not worth over 10,000 people, it's not worth it to the municipality. In that sense, in order to avoid further insinuations, hallucinations, etc. and that this amendment has become unnecessary since you have accepted the HDZ amendment with our intensities, my colleague Udovic and I are withdrawing the amendment without any consequences for the state of local self-government. And today we thank the Government for correcting their mistake and HDZ error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23006	Thank you very much. So the amendment has been withdrawn. The 20th Amendment of Representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23007	Thank you very much, Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. The proposal is contrary to the spirit and meaning of the whole law as well as the official system in the local, regional (regional) self-government. It is not clear what kind of advisers they are and what their status is, and especially professional consultants as proposed by the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23008	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23009	Dear Proposer, in a number of cities, unfortunately you have paid advisors who have monthly fees of 5, 6 7000 kunas every month for four years in a number of cities. So this system of local self-government doesn't exist since yesterday. It was this amendment that wanted to avoid it, because just a large part of those deputy mayors, the smaller one that was still deleted, will end up in advisory places. And there won't be any savings in the local units' budgets. However, on the other hand, the budget items will be even bigger, primarily, to issue fees for advisers and all employees in cities and municipalities. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23010	Twenty-fourth Amendment of Agent Davor Find.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23011	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. As regards the second paragraph, the order in which the deputy's duties would continue to remain in all units is also contrary to the objectives of the legislator.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23012	Your Honor, I want you to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23013	Thank you. So if I get the proposal's objectives correctly, the requirements are, among other things, cost-scutting rationalization, which, in fact, these last amendments, which have been accepted, have seriously broken down. So, the savings from this law are almost zero and we're wondering what effect it's going to be. So, in fact, the amendments that I have made, they are exactly in line with the objectives because it actually maintains that all mayors and mayors, the mayors have deputies, but that volunteers are free of charge. So, you don't get paid for your work. And that would actually result in much greater savings than will be in this way, where in fact many deputies will continue to professionally perform their duty, while on the other hand, where the deputy does not actually achieve very small savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23014	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23015	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23016	The 25th Amendment of Agent Davor Nadi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23017	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is meaningless. Since Amendment 18 is not accepted
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23018	Your Honor, I want you to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23019	So the same as before in order to make sure that the previous amendment is also dependent on the amendment under regular number 42. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23020	Twenty-sixth Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23021	The amendment is accepted in full. Amendments 26 will allow the municipal chief, i.e. the mayor who was elected directly in the elections without his deputy in the event of his prevention, to appoint himself a person of his highest trust who will temporarily replace him. In the unit in which there are deputy members of national minorities or Croatian peoples where members of national minorities make up most of the population, they may appoint that deputy to temporarily replace it and may designate a temporary deputy from the ranks of members of the representative body. Such a decision will be taken by the municipal chief or mayor at the beginning of the term of office and may be changed during the term of office. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of It is now read as follows: ‘Article 43a is added to Article 43a. which reads: If, during the term of office of the municipal chief and mayor who do not have a deputy, circumstances resulting from which the municipal chief, i.e. the mayor, is prevented from performing his duty for a longer period of absence or other reasons for the prevention of the municipal head or mayor, he will replace the temporary deputy appointed by the municipal chief or mayor at the beginning of the term of office of members of national minorities, i.e. members of the Croatian people in units where members of national minorities constitute the majority of the population or members of the representative body. The decision to appoint a temporary deputy from the ranks of a member of the representative body may be amended by the municipal chief or mayor during the term of office. The deputy municipal chief or mayor of the national minority or members of the Croatian people in units where members of national minorities constitute the majority of the population or a member of the representative body referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be the temporary deputy municipal chief or mayor who replaces the municipal chief or mayor during the duration of the long absence or other reasons for which the municipal head or mayor of which the term of office has not ceased to carry out his duties. The temporary deputy shall be authorised to perform only regular and necessary tasks in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the municipality or city During the replacement of the municipal chief or mayor, the temporary deputy shall exercise the rights of the municipal chief or mayor. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23022	Thank you, you do not need to read the entire article, and no, since the amendment has been accepted, or the amendment in the amended form has been accepted Then this one doesn't need to read, this one becomes an integral part of this law. [[Intruder: No amendment accepted entirely.]] 27th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, Representative Furi Radin and Representative Robert Jankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment shall be adopted in the amended form in accordance with the content of Amendment 26. Amendments 26 and 27 will allow the municipal chief, or mayor, who was elected directly in the elections without his deputy in the event of his impediment to appoint himself a person of his highest trust who will temporarily replace him. In the unit in which there are deputy members of the national minority or Croatian peoples where members of national minorities make up the majority of the population, they may appoint that deputy to temporarily replace it and may designate a temporary deputy from the ranks of members of the representative body. Such a decision will be taken by the municipal chief or mayor at the beginning of the term of office and may be changed during the term of office. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. which reads: If, during the term of office of the municipal chief and mayor who do not have a deputy, circumstances have arisen that make it impossible for the municipal chief or mayor to carry out his duties for a longer period of absence or other reasons of impediment, the municipal chief or mayor will replace the temporary deputy appointed by the municipal chief or mayor at the beginning of the term of office of members of national minorities or members of the Croatian people in units where members of national minorities constitute the majority of the population or members of the representative body. The decision to appoint a temporary deputy from the ranks of members of the representative body may be amended by the municipal chief or mayor during the term of office. The deputy municipal chief or mayor of the national minority or members of the Croatian people in units where members of national minorities constitute the majority of the population or a member of the representative body referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be the temporary deputy municipal chief or mayor who replaces the municipal chief or mayor during the duration of the long absence or other reasons for which the municipal head or mayor of which the term of office has not ceased to carry out his duties. The temporary deputy shall be authorised to perform only regular and necessary tasks in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the municipality or city. During the replacement of the municipal chief or mayor, the temporary deputy shall exercise the rights of the municipal chief or mayor. If the circumstances set out in paragraph 1 of this Article result in the termination of the term of office of the municipal chief or mayor in that unit, the early elections for the municipal mayor or mayor will be discussed. As soon as the early elections are carried out, the duties of the municipal chief or mayor will be exercised by the Commissioner of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The term of office of the municipal chief or mayor shall be suspended on the day of continuing the duties of the municipal chief or mayor upon termination of the reasons for which the municipal chief or mayor has been disabled in the performance of his or her duties, or in the case referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article, on the date of entry into force of the decision on the appointment of the Commissioners of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the circumstances referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the municipal head or head of the administrative body of the municipality or of the city responsible for official relations shall inform the President of the representative body immediately following the occurrence of those circumstances. The conditions set out in paragraph 6 of this Article shall be notified by the President of the representative body to the Government of the Republic of Croatia within 8 days for the opening of early elections for the new municipal chief or mayor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23024	Thank you very much. I've let you speak much longer than you can just to read the whole article, this is a very long article but for the sake of general clarity that there would be no doubt about it. Here's your esteemed representative, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This was not for the sake of general clarity this was the correct thing the secretary of state had read, but then in that sense, it was unconditional to accept the amendment of the HDZ Club because it was in the same article. So the government accepted the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, Mr Radin and Mr Jankovic on Article 19, so that she gave her Article 19, which also incorporated HDZ proposals as well as in the case of that amendment where HDZ and counterpart Udovic and I proposed this, so the Government accepted in a corporate way, so I withdrew the amendment. So it would be right for HDZ to withdraw the amendment, if Mrs. Jeckov agreed to an explanation, and then it was done that way. But now if HDZ pulls the amendment, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23026	Okay, but from what I understand this amendment is accepted, the government has accepted that amendment. is, [[Intruder: Yes, yes she accepted.]] In modified form [[Inflammation: In modified form.]] Do they agree with that, Proposer? [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23027	We agree and accept in changed form.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23028	Thank you very much. 28th Amendment of the Club of HNS Representatives and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed regulation is excessive because it is a temporary deputy who does not have the same status as the deputy elected with the municipal chief and mayor. As far as replacing the term of office is concerned, it is a matter governed by the Law on Local Elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23030	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, Honorable Representative Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23031	Thank you very much. But I can see that in some other amendments you've already accepted the same thinking that you need to know who the deputy is in some special cases, and here we are withdrawing. There is no need to vote for this amendment. But an appeal to the Ministry. Go immediately to the amendment of the law, in the creation of a new Law on Units of Local Self-Government. This is all we do is cosmetic. In 2021, we need to pass a law that would take effect on 25. So that everyone knows all the rules of the game and then it will be easier for us all to decide. The new law must also address the financing of local self-government units in a better and better way. It must provide citizens with a better service, and local self-government and regional administration units serve to make it better for citizens to do their own service they really need and consume in a fast and efficient way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23032	If I understand correctly, you're withdrawing the amendment, right? Thank you. 29th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23033	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed solution is not in line with the solutions set out in the amendments adopted 26 and 27.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23034	On behalf of the Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23035	Since the core of our amendment has actually already been accepted in Amendment 26, we will not ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23036	So, is the amendment withdrawing? Thank you. Amendment 30 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23037	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted. The provision is unambiguously harmonised.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23038	31st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23039	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant is of the opinion that it is not justified to exempt units from the right to regulate their internal structure and the right to carry out operations for which they are designed only by applying the population criteria of up to 5 000. At the same time, the proposed solution would significantly disrupt relations within the local service system, as the tasks of a particular unit would not be carried out by officials and by some other units, which would result in a series of problems of status.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23040	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23041	If the number of inhabitants is not that criterion based on which we should go in a certain form of reconstruction, then let me know what that criterion would be. Is fiscal justification the existence of a particular unit of local administration and self-government or something third? So if it's fiscal then I don't know how many units of local administration and self-government can survive in that sense and how many ultimately operate liquidally without being late for paying certain ordered and executed works. This amendment is therefore set out in Article 20. The government is very unambiguously proposing that units of local self-government which do not have the ability to ensure that administrative and professional tasks are carried out within their administrative bodies are obliged to ensure that these tasks are jointly carried out with the second unit of local self-government. They're due, that's the questionnaire I put in. Who will assess that they do not have the ability to perform administrative and professional tasks? Who will force them or at least stimulate them to perform them along with other units of local administration and self-government? The provision will not achieve absolutely any result. Instead, Most has proposed a serious rationalisation with significant fiscal savings according to which there is no administrative department in the local self-government unit of less than 5,000 inhabitants. For them, jobs are of course larger cities except for islands where depending on those who fit this criterion have a common single administrative department. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23042	The 32nd Amendment of Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23043	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is identical to the previous amendment of the Club of Representatives of Most and is not accepted for the reasons set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23044	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23045	Thank you. So in the practical part of the current law, we have local committees and city wheels that are neither fiscally nor legally do they have some kind of authority based on which we could actually do a much bigger job which in practice is objectively done as such. The government plans to save about some 600 million kunas over a period of 5 years, these amendments to the Law plan to save around. I don't understand why the total percentage that can be allocated to the election budget in the local (regional) administration and self-government of 20% if it went down to 10%, to 10% you'd burn in the range of 5 years 7 and a half billion kuna. Seven and a half billion kuna. I'm happy for all the people who work at the local administration and self-government, who get a job, who take care of it. However, they say the most common work in two-way work is because they cannot all fit into one space out of the number of employees. I will mention to you the example of the City of Split, which is a classic proof of the paradoxism of this percentage which remains as such in the law. So the city of 180,000 inhabitants has more than 500 employees in the city administration, and for example, the City of Malmo has 104 people employed in the administration. So, this law I'd like to see and save 130 million kuna. But I doubt he will. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23046	33rd Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23047	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Transparency of spending of public funds is part of the matter governed by the Budget Law and other regulations of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23048	In the name of the Club, respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23049	So since it is most certain that it is through the Law on the right to access information that is done before the Ministry of Finance, and in particular to give its role in how budgets are implemented in local units that not everyone will have to complain to the Commissioner for the right to access to it in order to get it and the HDZ promised to look for transparent local budgets, so we will see who is responsible for it. Well, the Ministry of Finance can't deal with transparency anymore, I mean. We'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23050	You're looking for a vote. Thank you. 34th Amendment of MP Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23051	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed descriptions are not common in nomoch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23052	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23053	I don't know. I think it was also an affirmative proposal to make the word "information" easy to access and search. So these are your words that information must therefore be easily available and searched, they add the words "and understandable to non-financial professionals". If you put the information to be easily available and searched, then I really doubt your assessment that the addition "and understandable for non-financial professionals" is something quite rare in the world of legislation. So information on budget spending on municipalities, cities and counties should be available and searched as you yourself have said. But also presented in a way that is visible to all understandable policy of the city and the municipality. Because transparency that is not understandable to citizens who are not financial professionals is not really any transparency. So, if this was put on, I see no reason why it couldn't be put in, and that supplement that would go even further for the very purpose of what was meant to be achieved by the transparency described as easily available and searched. So I'm going to ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23054	Thank you. Agent Davor's 35th Amendment, find it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23055	The amendment is not accepted. The regulation of the type and quantity of information on the spending of appropriations is not a place in the system law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23056	Your Honor, I want you to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23057	Thank you. Well, since this is according to, we also heard in the debate and now that more or less everything has to do with transparency is not a measure in this law. The question arises why was that provision in this Law in the first place, and not when it comes to amending the relevant law? This amendment is therefore in my opinion, however, its place is here and it is not actually entered here in detail, but as it was said when the law was just defined a framework for later regulation in the relevant law. What is the objective of this amendment is for this framework to be only a little clearer and this framework is, in fact, an example of the transparency that has proved to be good in the City of St. Sunday that has so far been followed by the City of Zlatar and the City of Vrgorac and which has already been widely accepted by the citizens and we do not see why good practices should not really begin to be respected in this country. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23058	Thank you. 36th Amendment of Representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23059	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The provision for the information to be easily available includes making it available to everyone, and the details will be governed by specific regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23060	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23061	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner, respected Andrea North Koren and the Honorable Mr. Sanjina Rukavina State Secretary. You know what? I said I'm going to write one amendment that will surely pass. Let me explain. With this amendment, I suggested, I was wrong about it, but this amendment proposed that in advance and legally speaking and in line with the recommendations of the Commissioner for Public Information and the availability of data on the work of the public authority. So my amendment is improving the legal text. It wishes to specify that all data on local budgets are available in machine-readable form, so that scientists and everyone else can easily export, analyse, and not that data users have to hand-written them. I see the government doesn't understand the meaning of the amendment. So I'm looking for a vote in the hope that here in the Parliament there are more discreet people sitting around. It seems to me like I've prepared you top-of-the-line stickers in this pre-good days and with a good plum, then I've invited you to join us together, to honor you, and you've turned that down. Nothing. Then I'll have to offer the other colleagues a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23062	You're looking for a vote, aren't you? You're asking for a vote if I understand. Thank you. 37th Amendment of Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23063	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. By prescribing the table format and the level of analysis of the publication data is not subject to the system law, such details will be governed by specific regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23064	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23065	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. My amendment doesn't just apply to the display of the data. He's actually referring to a nomotechnic. I don't know why you didn't accept to correct what the law says wrongly. You say there you'll give information, and actually local self-government should give information. Based on this data that would be found there by automatic. What my colleague suggested before me, so did I. In fact, we would allow our citizens and people who are interested in the budget to study this budget normally. Now with what you wrote in the law is actually expected from our citizens, our voters to actually take these data and copy it from some format that isn't... readable means from some PDF, maybe from some other formats, and that's not acceptable for us. You were talking about transparency, you were talking about openness, you were talking about reducing the number of mayors and commissioners. We've seen from that number the reduction is very little. From openness to nothing. So you haven't reduced that number or that percentage for the required number of signatures for the referendum. So, citizens can't decide that. Now that we're talking about transparency, what kind of reform is this? We're not looking for anything special, just so that we can read these data and that what's called data is really data, and what's information to be information. So please think again and see if you'll at least change that notch, because it's not... written. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23066	The 38th Amendment of Agent Davor finds it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23067	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The proposal for a law now represents an improvement of the Institute of Proposal for a decision on temporary financing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23068	Your Honor, I want you to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23069	Well, I've already explained. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23070	The 39th Amendment of Agent Davor finds it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23071	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is irrevocable in the order of non-admission of Amendment 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23072	Your Honor, I want you to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23073	Same as before. Thank you. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23074	You're looking for a vote. The 40th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23075	The amendment is accepted. The text is nomotechnically harmonised.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23076	41st Amendment... becomes an integral part of the law. [[You don't understand.]] 41st Amendment of Agent Davor Find.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23077	The amendment is not being accepted. The amendment is without prejudice to the adoption of the other amendments to the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23078	Your Honor, I want you to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23079	It's 41 here. Yeah? So like before, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23080	The 42nd Amendment of Agent Davor finds it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23081	The amendment is not accepted. Decisions relating to the way in which the law in force provides for a proposal for a bill shall be deemed appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23082	Your Honor, I want you to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23083	Well, I've talked about it before, but I'd like to point out one more time. Therefore, if the aim of this law is to make cost irrationalisation within units of local regional self-government, then certainly defining volunteering, defining the position of all deputies as volunteers would contribute to that objective and therefore remain with the requested amendment. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23084	And the 43rd amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23085	Thank you very much, Vice President. The amendment is accepted. Text deleted as superfluous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23086	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with. We now have a Club of Representatives of the SDP proposing the adoption of the following conclusion: "The Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of delivering within 90 days to the Croatian Assembly a report on the implementation of the Public Administration Development Strategy for the period 2015 to 2020, in accordance with measures 201. The public administration development strategy for the period 2015 to 2020, which obliges the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to report regularly on the implementation of the Strategy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia every year and the Croatian Parliament every three years." Does the proposal want to be made clear on this proposal for a conclusion?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23087	He does. The conclusion is not accepted. It is not clear that it is proposed to submit a report by adopting this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23088	On behalf of the promoter of the conclusion, i.e. the Club of the SDP, the respected representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23089	Mr. Secretary of State that you are behind the word "no", that you are behind the word "the conclusion is not accepted" put the point much less would have to object to you, because if you do not see these amendments to the Law and the link to the Public Administration Development Strategy, then I really don't know who should see it. So Minister Malenica talks all the time about the reform implemented by these laws. So it's about major reform savings, and now all we need to do is find a link between the 2015 Strategy, and the government has been implementing it for 5 years and this law. So this is exactly, it's quite a clear link between the Strategy and the amendments to this Law. Both, of course, and independently of that, the Office of the Prime Minister, because it says in the Strategy, should report to the Croatian Parliament on by the end of March, I hope 2021 on the implementation of the Public Administration Development Strategy. Then it would be an opportunity to talk a little more about public administration in general. So I'm sorry the government missed that opportunity to present to us what she did and get a little commendation. It's actually very illogical. If the government was working on implementation of the Strategy, then it should be hard to wait for it to come to the Parliament to boast of what it was doing, not to reject this proposal that was de facto the day of the ball of love and should only be nailed. And you with these laws, and now with this conclusion, you've missed the whole field if you would say it in a tennis dictionary. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23090	Thank you very much. ... on the amendments, [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood]] Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 77. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Davor Find a joint Club of Representatives of the SDSS, representative Furio Radin and representative Robert Jankovics, then the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, the respected Sanjin Rukavina. First of all, Amendment number one to Honored Representative Naji.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23638	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment shall not be accepted for reasons of non-admission of amendments of the same representative to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23639	Your Honor, I want you to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23640	So as before, I've explained everything. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23641	Thank you. 2nd Amendment of Representatives Find.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23642	The amendment is not accepted in the same way as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23643	Your Honor, I want you to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23644	Just like before, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23645	And the 3rd Amendment of the Honorable Representative finds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23646	The amendment shall not be accepted for reasons of not accepting amendments 1 and 2. The same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23647	Your Honor, I want you to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23648	Just like before, I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23649	Thank you. The following are amendments to the SDSS, Furia Radina and Robert Jankovics Club. Please, Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23650	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. In the final draft of the law, as set out in Article 18 of the Law, Article 18a is added: ‘Article 18a. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. They're getting wiped out. The above paragraph 8 shall become paragraph 3 which shall be amended and read as follows: ‘In order to achieve the proper representation of national minorities in the representative body, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will discuss additional elections for representatives of national minorities within 90 days of the establishment of the representative body of the unit in which the number of members of the representative body may be even.’ the amendment lays down the provisions of the applicable Law on Local Elections of Article 107. It shall comply with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which stipulates that the right to self-government is exercised through local and regional regional representative bodies, which are composed of members elected in free and secret elections on the basis of direct and equal and general voting rights, and in Article 3. The Constitution which stipulates that, among other things, freedom, equality, national equality and rule of law are the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and the basis for interpretation of the Constitution. Article 107 The law provides for the establishment of representation of national minorities in the representative body in the implementation elections and is now prescribed that, in order to achieve the appropriate representation of national minorities in the representative body, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will issue additional elections for representatives of national minorities within 90 days of the establishment of a representative body of the unit in which the number of members of the representative body may be even, and instead of the former principle of withdrawal of additional members from the electoral lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23651	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer Thank you very much. [[Intruder: We accept the amended text of the amendment.]] It shall be accepted in a slightly modified form. So, and we have an amendment to the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23652	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted. Following the adoption of the amendments, the suspension of the term of office under the law of a member of a representative body who, or the mayor who does not have a deputy, has been prescribed to replace him in the event of a long absence or other reason for the prevention of the sequence which is temporarily allowed to carry out his duties from the day on which the municipal chief or mayor is prevented from performing his duties for longer absence or other reasons of prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u23653	It's becoming an integral part of the law, isn't it? Declaration on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the City of Zagreb, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 78. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. Dear Secretary of State Sanjin Rukavin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is accepted. The excess part of the text in the provision has been deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24202	Thank you very much. So it becomes an integral part of the law. This would end with an indication of the amendments and the discussions on the amendments, and also with today's work, so I would announce tomorrow's vote at 10 o'clock on amendments and other points. Thank you very much. Have a nice afternoon. The session was adjourned at 4:31 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives, the amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment prevents the disbursement of 50% of the current payment obligations of the fee in question due to epidemiological restrictions on the work of certain economic operators, as well as the teachingly increased operating costs mainly of micro and to the greatest extent of small entrepreneurs. With the compensation mechanisms already in place and measures proposed, the proposed normative solution will not negatively affect the activities of demining and fire-fighting activities as well as for forest management purposes in order to secure funds from other sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24826	Dear representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24827	Well, I have to admit, your argument surprised me a little bit, even though I knew you'd refuse the amendment. So in this law, it is said in this proposal to amend and supplement the laws that will reduce activities between other meanings and fire and forest management and pyrotechnic, i.e. demining, demining activities. So that's what it says in your text. And as for the meaning of some savings, I doubt there could be any savings here, so since it's narrowed down here, it means the number of those who have to pay this fee and the fee is reduced. However, there was a reduction in the amount of the fee from 0.026% to 0.024% of total revenues. I don't think it's going to be important, the primary objective of this measure will not be achieved, which is to reduce the impact of covid-19 on the Croatian economy. It would be good to make an analysis of how much this minimum discharge will help entrepreneurs. First of all, there is a law on assessing the effects of regulations. This law has not been applied here, so no previous assessment has been made as to how direct effects could truly achieve the goal that has been declared here. And I say what is said, so it clearly states that this reduction will result in a reduction in demining, fire and forest management activities. In any case, one of those laws that goes popularly to reduce these parafiscal burdens, and without any projections and without any effect actually on the economy particularly in the covid crisis that is declared here as the fundamental objective of this measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24828	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24829	Yeah, I'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24830	Thank you very much. Next statement on the amendments, thank you, well-respected Secretary of State. Agent Nadja's amendment is identical if I'm not mistaken, is that right? Or have you submitted the amendment together? I didn't realize if you had submitted the amendment together or if you were identical content? Separate or identical content?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24831	No, no. The amendments are completely different.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24832	Okay. The amendment of Honorable Representative Naji.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24833	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed normative solution of the proposings horizontally complies with the tax policy measures adopted and the discharging of economic operators. The proposed basis for the creation of an obligation of up to 7 and a half million kuna total annual income has already been released by 97% of the payer on the use of the common useful functions of the forest, primarily micro and to the greatest extent and small entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24834	Your Honor, I want you to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24835	So here, given that according to the criteria, one of the criteria for transition from category to medium-sized entrepreneurs, is the threshold of 60 million kuna income per year. I think it would be okay to, therefore, take this and actually almost all the small entrepreneurs, and if this is really about such a small number of small entrepreneurs as you claim that are currently left out of the 100th discharge, then I think that would actually make it even easier to accept my proposal, so I am asking for a statement by voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u24836	Thank you very much. Our next statement on the amendment, thank you very much, for the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on memberships in tourist communities, second reading, P.Z. Number 64. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was filed by Agent Davor Find. We ask the applicant's representative to be informed of the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State Sandra Herman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25575	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs, I most warmly welcome you all and must say that the promoter does not accept the amendment of Agent Davor Nadi. Namely, as I mentioned on several occasions this reduction in membership fee by 12% is part of an action plan to reduce non-taxable fiscal contributions in 2020, as well as part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme by the '24th and foresees a disbursement of the economy in order to further create a competitive business environment. I must mention the fact that for the purpose of discharging from 2016 to now membership fees have been reduced by 32% in total, and this is another discharge, this reduction by 12% and I still have to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Tourism are preparing parallel measures and preconditions to achieve a full suspension of membership as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25576	Honorable Agent Find, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25577	Thank you, Vice President. Given the economic situation in which most entrepreneurs are in particular in the tourism sector, I remain with the view that this discharge is too weak to be much more concrete and here I demand a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25578	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25608	This brings us to the end of the presentation of clubs and independent representatives, and we will now move to agenda points. The first is the order: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Hong Kong International Convention for Safe and Environmentally Acceptable Cycling of Ships from 2009, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 81. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. 207. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The rules of procedure laid down in that Article provide that the laws on which international contracts are confirmed in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are to be adopted as a rule in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Josip Bilaver, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25609	I would like to thank the Honorable President HS, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. You are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Hong Kong International Convention for Safe and Environmentally Acceptable Cycling of Ships from 2009. prepared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with its 2020 legislative action plan That Convention was adopted under the auspices of the International Maritime Organisation at the Hong Kong diplomatic conference held from 11 to 15 May 2009. It represents a new international legal instrument which, in the spirit of environmental protection and human health, and the safety of navigation, prescribes uniform ship recycling rules, a process of disassemblying ships that are no longer capable of safe navigation and which re-building new ships or which are used as raw materials in another industry. At EU level, the importance of this topic has also been recognised, and it is 2013. EU Regulation adopted No. This appropriation is intended to cover: 1013/2006 and Directive 2009/16 which has taken over the text of this Convention and whose primary objective is to facilitate and accelerate its ratification since it has not yet entered into force. In fact, Member States today do not prevent any ratification of the Convention in view of the same national legislation but have already complied with the standards of the Convention, given that they are equally prescribed by the European Regulation, all as already explained in advance. However, the Council of the EU is 2014. It also adopted a decision on the ratification of this Convention authorising its Member States to access this international contract in parts of the exclusive competence of the EU. The Republic of Croatia will therefore contribute to the faster entry into force of the Convention and the uniformisation of that problem not only at European level but also globally, which corresponds to the international nature of ship recycling. In addition, as a maritime country, the Republic of Croatia will establish its place among a group of countries responsible for the marine environment as well as the conditions of work of persons involved in ship recycling processes, and will contribute to ensuring fairer competition, equality of the market conditions of shipowners at world level. In accordance with the provisions of the Convention, and this Law on Confirmation of the same from its application, all war, auxiliary war or other ships owned or controlled by the Republic of Croatia, which are used exclusively for public, not commercial purposes, will be excluded. Also, all ships of less than 500 gross tonnes, and all those that sail exclusively in waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the state whose flag would exclude all Croatian shipmen in national navigation from its application. Croatian shipowners whose operations are subject to the Convention already have harmonised standards with those laid down in the Convention, since the content of the Convention has already been adopted by a regulation which is in force, so the entry into force of the Convention will not result in new costs, nor administrative obligations for the addressees of this Act, nor will there be a need to provide additional funds for the same purpose in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. As regards recycling facilities in the Republic of Croatia, as well as in most EU Member States, there is no reason why the Republic of Croatia did not appreciate our Adriatic prior to the adoption of this Convention, given that the ship recycling process is particularly under the standard of how it is conducted around the world is dangerous for the marine environment. Following all the above mentioned and given the nature of the process of confirming international contracts and formally expressing the willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, the amendments and additions of the text of the international contract cannot be accepted in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25610	I thank the Secretary of State. Stay behind the pay phone, you have one replica. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25611	Here's my thanks to the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, it is not only clear to me whether those countries that do not ratify this agreement have certain consequences and which are legal repercussions, so if they simply do not want to participate in this, yet retain these old ships that can damage the environment and polluting nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25612	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25613	I thank the representative for asking. We are interested in adopting such an international convention at global level as soon as possible. To adopt it requires 15 ratification countries that have their own fleet, 40% of the total fleet over 500 gross tonnes. So we as a responsible member state, but also a country dealing with and worrying about the conservation of the marine environment, are in our interest to adopt it globally, at both European and global level as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25614	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If we don't, we're going to have an argument. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a respected colleague of Nikola Grmoy. My colleague's not here, so he's losing his right to speak. Then comes the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored counterpart Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25615	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed assistant minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Hong Kong International Convention for Safe and Environmentally Acceptable Cycling of Ships. What I would say in the opening, and in part he already said that and Mr. Secretary of State of the Convention was signed in Hong Kong in 2009. However, it has not yet entered into force, as it has not signed and adopted it, ratified a sufficient number of member states of this International Convention, whose ship's capacity, whose total fleet exceeds 40% of the fleet. However, given that we are a member of the EU, since we are very important in the conservation of the marine environment, the EU has launched a procedure for adopting almost identical text through its regulation. And we adopted that regulation last year here in the Croatian Parliament, and it seems to me that in September we adopted and practically almost identical provisions of this Convention we implemented in our legislation in a way that we adopted the European Commission's regulation. What is important to say is that this Convention, and thus the European Commission's regulation, does not apply to the entire fleet of individual EU Member States. It does not apply to ships whose load capacity is less than 500 tonnes on one side, it does not apply to warships, nor to ships that sail in national navigation, so that they are not in international navigation, which carry out cabotage. So a significant part of the ships doesn't fall under the authority of this convention itself. What is important to say is that such conventions are adopted primarily in order to cover the International Maritime Organisation in order to make it impossible to sail around the world in standard ships that do not meet the conditions that are in the meantime the two most important International Conventions, which speak of the protection of life and safety of life at sea. This is the SOLAS Convention and others that talk about protecting the marine environment are not meeting the MARPOL Convention. So, in the meantime, to conclude these two, these two international conventions of the International Maritime Organisation raised the level of quality of safety of navigation, and thus the lives of sailors, as well as the preservation of the marine environment. In order for such ships that do not meet such conditions to be excluded from the national shipping world seas, such a convention and a document adopted in Hong Kong in 2009 is a tool that will prevent it. And in this way, Member States approach, implementing this Convention to speed up such a process, accelerate the construction of their new fleet, new ships, and these ships that are substandard are sent to the cutting points or so on. popular shopping. Since 90% of global transport is being carried out by the sea, it is very important that, in order to be safe, and to be sure, these ships must be of sufficient quality, they must be capable enough to carry out such navigation, that it can be considered safe sailing, and because of that as I have said already many states are real.../incomprehensible/... which are serious countries with a serious commercial fleet, working, making new ships so that today, in the world, the average age of ships that sail, which are over 500 tonnes of load capacity, is about 21 years old, is their average, average age. Otherwise, what is important to say despite such access and despite the fact that it is forced through a number of international legal tools of construction, the construction of new ships still takes place in the year 2018 in which I have the information that there have been more than 1,036 around 1,036 such harariums and on which 46 ships submerged. According to the International Maritime Organisation, 1,435 ships carrying nearly 100 million tonnes or 99 thousand tonnes were built last 2019. Since it's a very large number, that's what I said to the ships that go to that so-called. Scraping this Convention shall be prescribed in a way that, on the one hand and on the other hand, ships such as the State or the Shipyard which performs that yard, or better said recycling, which conditions it must meet. Otherwise, since this is generally significant and cost and the costs of recycling itself are now being carried out in southern Asia by such one, one method of extracting an old boat on the beach where it is then cut, recycled, etc. In Croatia, we had one St. Kayo if I am not mistaken who was next to Trogir down in Split-Dalmatia County who served for years as a boatyard and thus took place there so-called. Scraping or cutting point. This method, which will be implemented under this Convention, applies also in a way that, that the iron of steel from which the ship is built is not waste, it becomes raw material because by recycling later and pouring into the levies it can be reused for the construction of ships or it can be used for use in other industries where steel is the basis, and we know that steel is indeed one of the bases of almost the largest part of the industry. It is therefore very important that we, as a country with a relatively 4 million inhabitants, contribute to the safety of the world's seas, the safety of the Adriatic as a semi-closed sea by respecting the provisions of this Convention. Otherwise, our fleet is one of the world's finest fleets, thanks to the measures we have implemented within the state and maritime administration, primarily through port captains through the Croatian Register of Ships, insisting on the construction of new ships and numerous incentives and subsidising the construction of ships both in Croatia and primarily in Croatian shipyards. For a long time, with these subsidies that amounted to about 20%, we made it possible for Croatia's largest shipmen and tanker sailing and Atlantic navigation, and for the Adriatic and Oily sailing to restore their fleet, so that they can, then, meet these conditions. And thanks to that fact that before we joined the EU, which we had to rebuild the fleet, we really raised our fleet to a very high level. There's a so-called. Paris's list of quality values, ship's readiness to meet all international conventions. This one ranking list speaks of countries that have strong, strong, renewed, modern fleets and those that have substandard ships, we were here somewhere in the middle for many years, our national fleet to make it to the EU sometime in 2010, '11. years entered the top of that list, so-called The Paris Memorial where our ships and our crews are then recognized as one of the best commercial fleets in the world. And in that sense, I think that we can really be proud of our sailors for being positioned at the top and the world's international fleet, and on the other hand, our sailors are one of the most trained and recognized sailors in the world. Croatia has over 20,000 sailors sailing on ships sailing in national navigation, but also more than 17,000 sailors sailing in international navigation. They are practically one of those who show that Croatia is both de facto and de jure the rights of the maritime state and that maritime activity in Croatia is very important. Here, which I may not have left until the end of Mr. Secretary of State which should explain whether, when this Convention enters into force, it is then effective and our law because the final provisions and states that the law itself will come into force when the conditions laid down by the Convention itself are met, is then our law that we adopted last year, which was implemented in the Croatian legislation itself by the EU regulation, will then remain in force, given that they are treating almost identical issues, the one that came out of the International Maritime Organisation and the one that was practically implemented on the basis of the European regulation and are processing the same subject in an identical manner, so whether that law will be put out of force. So we'll definitely accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25616	We're going to another debate. National Movement Representatives club, respected colleague Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25617	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleges. Hello, everyone, and I'm just here to quote a few sentences from this material that we've received. So we are working and talking about the process of disassemblying ships that are out of use, that is, are no longer capable of safe sailing, in materials that rebuild new ships or which are used as raw materials in another industry. So one of the most interesting stories in literature or poetry of the world comes at a time when the ship goes to the noodles. It is a very, very, very symbolic gesture, that is, an act that has many wonderful, emotional things. We're shipping a ship that traveled the world's seas. You know what those songs look like. But reality suggests that Croatia is a maritime country with an extremely long tradition of boat construction from those wooden ones, from those simplest structures to the ability of Croatian shipyards to work and produce and create the most modern ships in the world. We are not going to talk about problems with our shipyards right now, because it was very pleasant to discuss with colleagues and colleagues at the session of the Committee itself, so we will believe in this spirit and end this debate. I'll just mention some more things that both colleagues and colleagues have mentioned. Therefore, since the application of this Convention, war, auxiliary war, or other ships will be excluded. All ships less than 5 hundred gross tonnes, and those that sail exclusively in waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the state whose flag would exclude all Croatian shipmen from its application in national navigation. What is equally well arranged and arranged is that, following the entry into force of the Convention, Croatian competent authorities carry out inspections and inspections of ships and give them certificates in accordance with its provisions. Therefore, the validation of the Convention by the Republic of Croatia will speed up the process of entry into force of the Convention, and its entry into force contributes to what is one of the main provisions of us as States to protect the marine environment, our Adriatic Sea, and, of course, in a broader sense, to ensuring a fairer competition and equality of the world-wide market conditions of shipowners. So, during the ship's recycling, a lot of awkward things can happen. It's not just steel that we have left, as Honorable colleague Bacic said. I've been asking around about people who've been doing that kind of work. On one serious cargo ship, there can be hundreds of kilometers of electric cables that contain various metals such as copper, zinc, and others that, by coming to the environment of course, could cause enormous damage and do not give God and some kind of ecological disaster. So we, as the House Movement Representatives Club, are fully in agreement with the adoption of this Convention and we will, therefore, absolutely support it. It's gone, so I'm saying here about what to say. Keep our Croatia safe, keep our seas safe. Ships that are no longer safe to sail are at least a technical problem, and most of course the problem is in the lives of sailors. Croatia is a country that has a lot of sailors who sail not only in Croatian but also in world seas. To all of them, we want a calm sea and a quick return to our families. And once again, the Homeland Movement Club will support the application of this convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25618	Now we're going to prevent individual debates. A colleague, Pero Ćosic, signed up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25619	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected promoters from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This Convention constitutes a new international legal instrument which is in the spirit of the protection of the environment and human health, and the safety of navigation is prescribed by the uniform rules on ship recycling, i.e. the process of disassemblying ships that are no longer capable of safe navigation. Ships are recycled into materials from which new ships are rebuilt and used as raw materials in another industry. Taking into account the international nature of navigation, and the fact that about 80% of the world's volume trade and 70% of the value of the sea, we understand that we need to unify provisions related to ship recycling on a global scale, and the importance of safe sea navigation for human lives is also unquestionable. It is therefore also the intention of the international maritime organisation to prevent previous ship recycling that has contributed to environmental pollution. European shipowners shall have harmonised standards with those set out in that Convention as from 2018. So the large commercial maritime navigation flying the flag of an EU Member State must be recycled in safe and correct facilities included in the European ship recycling facility list. The Republic of Croatia joined and took over the content of that Convention by adopting a regulation in the Croatian Parliament last year and on 11. In November 2020, there are 43 ship recycling facilities in the European List, namely 11 in the EU Member States, in the United Kingdom, Norway. There are 8 plants in Turkey, one in the United States. The job of recycling ships is an opportunity to stimulate the circular economy and create green jobs in Croatia. The European List facilities have the ability to process all ships flying the flag of EU Member States and significantly higher capacities, so there are no more excuses for sending ships to dangerous and polluting facilities located outside the EU. EU shipowners manage around 40% of the world's commercial fleet. In the years prior to the adoption of this European regulation, they were responsible for about a third of the tonnes of worn-out ships in low-standard shipyards in Southeast Asia. Each year, it sells and drives to a cutting site of about 1,000 ships for separation. About 70% of these long-term ships end up on beaches in India, Bangladesh or Pakistan where they are cut by dangerous methods. Their cutting points are most profitable because of the purchase price of iron, but also because of low and cheap labour. However, labour rights levels, environmental pollution, and human health are a major problem in Asian subcontinent countries because of the non-implementation of the regulations of the Convention and the long-standing poor way of implementing the recycling process. We don't have any such facilities in the Republic of Croatia yet. It's hard to talk about whether such a facility will be built with us, because steel is the basic waste from ships. He needs to be processed, and we know that Željezara Sisak only has a symbolic meaning. Without the Croatian steel mill, it is almost difficult to talk about the competitiveness of the shipping industry on the international market whether it is either shipbuilding or ship recycling. However, an increasing number of ships are becoming obsolete and are withdrawing from use. Now we have the opportunity to help, to advocate to prevent, reduce and reduce to the minimum of accidents, injuries and other negative effects for human health and the environment that occur in these countries when recycling ships and removing dangerous waste that they contain. And that's why we have to show responsibility. We still have a chance when we pass this law. I believe that we need to adopt this law in order for the Convention to enter into force, which will take place 24 months after it has been ratified by at least 15 countries representing a combined commercial fleet representing at least 40% of the total gross tonne of the world’s commercial ship and whose maximum combined annual volume of ship recycling over the past 10 years is at least 3% of the total gross tonne of the combined commercial fleet of those same countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25620	Stay a colleague, you have two replicas. The first one's a colleague of Shimičević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25621	Here's my thanks to the President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, it is very important that we preserve our seas, our submarines, our shores. Of course this convention is extremely important. What I wanted to ask you is whether this might be an opportunity for us to be a maritime country, to re-form a certain cutting site for these old ships, given that it's much easier to hire people here than in the construction of new ships that are always quite a challenge for the builders themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25622	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25623	Thank you very much for asking. So here's something about it I said here in my speech. In fact, it would certainly be an opportunity for a circular, to say circular-economic green production, to get a job, our workers in the lack of work or orders in a shipyard that can easily be turned into cutting points. But what's going on? The biggest thing to say is the biggest waste from those ships is certainly the iron that needs to be processed. So you have to buy a boat to process it, and then you have to sell that iron to some steel company, some hardware store. I don't think we have any economic justifications, that we can hardly attract these ships to come here to Croatia, to our cutting sites because we can't sell that steel and the rest of the raw materials we get from the ship quality sell. And on the other hand, I think it's for the big ones across ocean ships and maybe it's not a chance to develop it here. Because here's a long time we've set ourselves up on tourism as one of the branches of industry that's quite full of our budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25624	Thank you. And another replica, Comrade Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25625	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Cosic, what I didn't say, and now I'm going to mention that is that the number of recycled ships is vice-proportional to the height of the train. The bigger the coaches, the smaller the ships are recycled and vice versa. Despite a convention like this that has not yet entered into force, which would be good for 78% of all ships going into the dump to actually be cut in the way of the beach, being pulled somewhere in South Asia into a muddy beach and then recycled there, which leads to environmental endangerment again. That's why what you said is very important. It would be good to find in this business the interest of the serious states and to have such a convention practically force them to do this scraping of ships according to the conditions prescribed, which protect the environment above all, and above all, the marine environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25626	Well, you've well noticed colleague Bačić that, so you said you too, I also said how much the percentage of industry, trade in volume, and to say the financial potential itself takes place through ships. So we need new, fresh ships. The old simple economy, according to these indicators, could not be possible, could not be maintained without sea navigation. And certainly the fares are the ones that determine when the ship will go to the cutting site. If there is no job, there is no ship, if it can sell it for a profit, the ship is already old or some regulations are being amended that need to be processed, equipped, which is quite expensive and economically invaluable. Under these conditions, people decide to send certain ships to the cutting site.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25627	Thank you, fellow Cossic. And let's go to the final on behalf of the motionary, honorary Secretary of State Joseph Bilaver.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25628	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs, MPs. As you had the opportunity to hear earlier, the adoption of the final proposal for a law confirming the Hong Kong International Convention for Safe and Environmentally Acceptable Cycling of Ships from 2009 is in the interest of both Croatian and all European shipmen. They already apply high safety standards in their business and are responsible for the marine environment, given that, due to European Regulation No 1257/2013 on ship recycling, which in its content has laid down all the standards that this Convention has already applied, as well as the Convention itself which is required here. In fact, the responsible attitude towards the marine environment as well as for people working on ship recycling operations must become a universally valid maritime business standard, not a burden that also causes European boaters to lose a market match compared to the cheaper and substandard business of third-country boaters. Therefore, the adoption of this law will not result in additional costs or administrative obligations for Croatian shipowners, which the Convention prescribes already apply everything as described in advance, and will ensure a fairer competition and equal, and equality of the market conditions of shipowners at the world level. Also, Mr. Bacic, given that the EU regulation remains in force, the existing law will therefore not change as long as it is in force. I therefore propose that you adopt this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25629	Stay still because my colleague Bacic has answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25630	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, this regulation does not apply to ships in national navigation, and to us as a state that is a coastal state of a semi-closed sea like the Adriatic, it is very important that ships that sail are safe. Therefore, it is also clear that our maritime administration's obligation to do everything in order to make our shipowners, which is the Law on coastal maritime transport, in a certain way, force them to build new ships, and that these substandard older ships are practically or sold, or they are going to a cutting point, so it is good that the ministry is also pushing for the construction of new ships by all its tendering regulations, to carry out public line maritime transport that connects Croatian islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25631	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25632	Thank you, Mr. Representative Bacic. You have well noticed that it is very important for us to stick to the Adriatic and respect the highest environmental standards. This is exactly what we are in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is currently in the development of a new Coastal Line Transport Act where we are about to place emphasis on this segment, so that future competition competitors of the Coastal Line Transport Agency can compete with better, better and more environmentally-friendly new vessels.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25633	Thank you, Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you, Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We are now going to the second point, that is: - The final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the 2012 Cape Town Agreement on the implementation of the provisions of the 1993 Torremolinos Protocol to the Torremolinos International Convention on the Safety of Fisherships of 1977, second reading, P.Z. No 82 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution and Article 82a. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The rules of procedure set out in that Article provide that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are, as a rule, adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, and I now call again on the proposing representative to give us an additional explanation, a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Josip Bilaver, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25636	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Members and MPs before you is the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the 2012 Cape Town Agreement implementing the provisions of the 1993 Torremolinos Protocol at the Torremolinos International Convention on the Safety of Fishing Ships of 1977. The Agreement shall contain binding measures for the safety of the navigation of fishing vessels of more than 24 metres in the open sea in such a way as to regulate the main provisions of the safety of such vessels such as stability, navigation capacity, machinery and electrical installations, rescue, communication equipment, fire protection and ship construction. Given that the agreement has not yet entered into force, and the EU has already taken over the content of the agreement and of the safety standards it sets out by Council Directive 97/70, which it already applies to European fishing vessels with a length of 24 metres and above. However, harmonisation of this topic at European level is not sufficient to ensure the standard of safety of fishing vessels at global level, but it is necessary for the purpose of ensuring fair competition to apply these standards to all participants. The universality in the application of the standards prescribed by the Agreement can only be ensured by the effect of the same agreement which requires it to be signed and ratified or accessed by at least 22 countries. Therefore, by decision of the Council of 17 February 2014 the EU decided to encourage its Member States to ratify and authorised them to sign, ratify or access the agreement, since the same national legislation had already complied with those standards through the process of taking over the content of Directive 97/70 which corresponds to the content of the agreement, all as has already been clarified. In fact, the agreement currently numbers 14 Contracting States required 22 and could, by ratification of the same by EU Member States, ensure their almost entry into force, thus also respecting the high safety standards and safeguards that the agreement prescribes from the European and international levels. In 2019, under the auspices of the International Maritime Organisation, the Republic of Croatia signed the Tormolinos Declaration where it once again committed itself to ratification of that Agreement, and during the first Presidency of the EU Council, gave a special additional contribution to the acceleration of the process of entry into force of this Agreement. The Republic of Croatia, at a ministerial and maritime conference held in Opatija on 10 March 2020, organised, in cooperation with the International Maritime Organisation, the re-signation of that declaration, signed in Opatija by several EU Member States – Portugal, Poland and Bulgaria, while committed to the immediate ratification of this important agreement, with the aim of speeding up the entry into force of the same agreement. Following the above mentioned and especially since, at a ministerial conference in Opatija, the Republic of Croatia took the initiative in the fight for a faster entry into force of the agreement, we propose to adopt this final proposal for a law on the validation of the agreement, which would make it part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, thereby contributing to the fulfilment of the European but also to the personal interest of faster entry into force of the Agreement. As a maritime country, the Republic of Croatia will establish its place among a group of countries responsible for the safety of fishing vessels and workers on the same. Finally, given the nature of the process of confirming international contracts that the state formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract, as well as the fact that changes and additions to the text of the international contract are not generally possible at this stage of the procedure, this final draft law is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25637	Thank you, Secretary of State. There's no replicas, so you can go to the place. I'm calling the representatives of the board now, will they take the floor? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first should speak on behalf of Croatian sovereigns' club Zekanovic. Since he's gone, he's losing his right to speak, so we're going to the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25638	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Before us today is the final draft law confirming the 2012 Cape Town Agreement on the implementation of the provisions of the 1993 Molinos Protocol, Toremolinos International Convention on the Safety of Fisherships of 1977. At a diplomatic conference held in 1997 in the Spanish city of Toremolinos, the first International Convention on the Safety of Fishing Ships was adopted. One of the main reasons why the Toremolinos Convention, why it has not entered into force so far, was that its technical requirements are based on the 1974 SOLAS Convention, which is the most important international convention in the field of navigation security, the Convention on the Protection of Human Lives at Sea. In 1993, the protocol adopted by the Toremolinos Convention was amended and tempered. As that Protocol has not yet entered into force in Cape Town, an international conference was held between 9 and 11 October 2012 under the auspices of the international maritime organisation to discuss the adoption of a new agreement that would allow the implementation of the provisions of the international instrument on the safety of fishing vessels resulting from the adoption of the 2012 Cape Town Agreement implementing the provisions of the Torremolinos Protocol of 1993, at the Toremolinos International Convention on the Safety of Fishing Ships of 1977. The Agreement shall contain binding measures for the safety of the navigation of fishing vessels of more than 24 metres in the open sea in such a way as to regulate the main provisions of the safety of the navigation of such ships as stability, the ability to sail, machinery, electrical installations, means of rescue, communication equipment, fire protection and the natural construction of ships. Given that the agreement has not yet entered into force and at EU level, stricter security standards based on the Torimolinos Protocol will be set to speed up the entry into force of that agreement at international level. The Republic of Croatia, as a maritime country, will establish its firm place among a group of countries responsible for the safety of fishing vessels and workers on the same. To respect standards not only in the EU but also in the world, it is necessary to respect these standards set by the Convention. The ratification of at least 22 countries is therefore necessary. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the signing of this Cape Town Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25639	Thank you. Now let's go to the debate of the Department of Homeland Movement Club. He's with us again, his colleague Davot Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25640	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We here have to agree by simple procedure that representatives of the competent ministry achieve, sign this agreement, and there is absolutely no single problem about it. Security has no alternative, especially the safety of the people on board, who sail not only in the Adriatic but also in all other seas of the world. So just yesterday I was thinking a little bit about this afternoon, and I was running into this very fun TV show where fishermen who hunt for some big crabs and something are being followed. And one of those ships got into a dangerous storm and then it really stopped being fun for a man, because whoever ever got on a boat that was in a storm at sea realizes that it wasn't a little funny and fun thing. Security has no alternative and therefore the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will also support, of course, agreeing to sign this agreement by representatives of the ministry. Unfortunately, at our debate held through the parliamentary board, I learned one fact that did not cheer me very much, which is that we currently do not have any fishing vessel in Croatia that would fall under the terms of this agreement because they are no longer than 24 metres long. But then I found out something else, and it's that the simple configuration of our coast and the way we fish simply don't require such large or long fishing boats. However, it is important to sign this convention, i.e. this agreement, also because of our seamen who do not sail on ships exclusively in the Adriatic Sea, sailing and on ships of foreign companies, on all world seas, and on fishing vessels. So here's the way we join again any initiative to support the safety of Croatian, even all other sailors in the world absolutely whatever. We also discussed the fact that such an agreement will bring some problems in the future of Croatian shipbuilding regarding fishing vessels, and we concluded that this should not happen. Of course, this agreement will also not apply to traditional shipbuilding and shipbuilding of wooden ships. We believe it will all be so together, so here we reaffirm our willingness to fully support this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25641	Here are you Zagorci and me Bilogorians experts on this issue. We agreed quickly. Okay. We don't have any more reports, so I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're gonna take a little break, and then we're gonna go to the third point after that. The amendments will begin at 3 p.m. because we are waiting for the government to provide us with its answers to the proposals of MPs and MPs. We'll continue at 11 o'clock and 15 minutes. It's 11 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:19 AM]] Constitution and Article 207a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Croatia lay down that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall, as a rule, be adopted in one reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. I now call upon the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation. Re-respected Joseph Bilaver, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25644	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. In front of you is the draft final draft of the law on the confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of part of the project Croatia completes the highway on corridor 5C. The proposed law confirms the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of part of the project Croatia completes the highway on corridor 5C concluded on 2 July 2020. It will lend to the Croatian highway company d.o.o. provide a part of the funding for the completion of the construction of two 5C corridors relating to 17 and a halfkm long shares between Halasic Bridge and Beli Manastir and a 5km long share between the Beli Manastir and the Hungarian border as well as the acquisition and installation of the corresponding highway equipment. The total estimated value of the project Croatia completes the 5C highway is 107m euros and the EBRD is ready to finance some of the necessary 55m euros. The loan becomes operational only after the confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty, which makes it possible to fulfil the financial obligations of the Croatian highway company d.o.o. as a borrower is guaranteed by the Republic of Croatia. Some of the terms of the loan. The deadline and method of payment shall be 15 years, including 3 years of payment of the principal and 12 years of payment at a variable interest rate of 6-monthly Euros, plus 1% of the margin. This is a priority project for the Republic of Croatia and is of great importance for the development of Slavonia and Baranja. Corridor 5C international transport link between Hungary, Eastern Croatia and BiH with the Adriatic Sea and extends from Budapest to the port of Ploča. When corridor 5C is fully completed in traffic terms, it will contribute to increasing comfort and reducing travel times and increasing traffic safety and will take over most of the freight traffic in this part of Europe, and the economic benefits of the new traffic route will be felt very quickly in all three countries. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts, which also formally expresses the willingness of the state to be bound by an already signed international contract and the fact that changes or additions to the text of the international contract can not normally be made at this stage of the procedure, we propose that this proposal for a law be discussed and accepted in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25645	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's a colleague of Bacic's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25646	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State passes through Croatia 4.... corridor... [[You don't understand.]] Brežice do Lipovljani, 5B from Rijeka to Budapest, according to Budapest, is the Danube seventh corridor and this is a very important corridor connecting the port of Ploče which is the starting point of this corridor, all the way to the White Manastir. [[You don't understand.]] He's clearly passing through Bosnia and Herzegovina for the most part. What I want to say to you is that it is also important for the port of Ploče, because the port of Ploče then becomes the entry port of the European Union and significantly reduces the traffic towards the Adriatic by entering the port of Ploče and continuing the 5C corridor, it would be good for the Ministry, clearly and Croatian highways to continue with the implementation of the highway construction project to the Pelješki bridge and then on Dubrovnik. Because in this way in the area of my Dubrovnik-Neretva County would have concluded that very important network... The corridor. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25647	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25648	I thank you for the question and for your determination. Namely, we are several years ago the European Union has defined the network of major TEN-T corridors. The current network of main corridors is currently under review and is changing. We expect at European Union level that the expansion of existing corridors will take place. In 2023, it should be a vote. Croatia should benefit absolutely from this because apart from existing corridors, we are interested in getting a Western Balkan alpine corridor as well as the Adriatic-Ionian Corridor. It is also this 5C corridor and the Adriatic-Ionian Corridor and the port of Ploče, but also the future route of the highway from the existing knot to Dubrovnik that will get more funding from European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25649	Now it's up to the esteemed colleague, Ackar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25650	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary-General, I think it would be good to point out what is the price of building this stock and what is the price per km compared to the other shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25651	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25652	Thank you. The honourable representative's tender for the construction of this stock was an open international procurement process. The price reached is 443 million kuna. When you divide it by mileage then we get to the price of 65 million kuna per mile. If we compare the existing price compared to the price for other shares that are citizens in the Republic of Croatia, then it is lower because it was about 100 million kuna in the second. However, it is important to note that the price has been affected by the land configuration as well as the lack or absence of this share of tunnels, large viaducts, which has certainly contributed to a lower or lower price, than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25653	Now it's my colleague Barbaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25654	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, several years ago, the Brodar Institute was doing one study respecting the fact that 60% of the world's trade is going through the Suet Channel, and it came to a conclusion from the aspect of finance and CO2 emissions that the port of Ploče is both more favourable than Trieste, and from Rotterdam for a good part of Central Europe. So this strengthens the justification of one such decision, one such investment. It is therefore further that it creates opportunities for stronger economic ties between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. My question is, is this project's completion of Ploče – Vinkovci rail potential which would add one added value to both Slavonia and the port of Vukovar?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25655	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25656	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. The port of Ploče by the port of Rijeka is certainly one of the most important and significant cargo ports in the Republic of Croatia. We certainly care about improving her development. Its development will be complete as well as the rail link with Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as with the east of the Republic of Croatia, and thus the rest of Central Europe will be completed. What is now a limiting factor is that currently in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have several operators, so when you send the cargo from the Panel, for example, towards Vukovar or the port of Vukovar only through Bosnia and Herzegovina, you have to change the operator several times, which is certainly a logistics challenge. As far as railways are concerned through the Republic of Croatia, this section from Vukovar to Vinkovci is currently modernising the railway section, which will certainly contribute to better transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25657	Thank you. And fellow Radic, here you are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25658	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Since I come from the City of Osijek, I do not have to mention in particular what Corridor 5C means for the east of Croatia as much as possible, what perspective it opens for us in the east of Croatia. You mentioned two shares of 5C. It is from the Halasic Bridge to the White Manastir 17 and a half km long and from the White Manastir to the Hungarian border of 5km long. What I'm curious about is when you could agree or when the highway will be conducted in full profile to the Hungarian border? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25659	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25660	Thank you. Mr. Representative, you've noticed very well. The last shares, i.e. 5 km from the Hungarian border to the White Manastir, have not yet begun work. The share concerned was subject to an environmental impact assessment procedure and a solution on the acceptability of the procedure was found. Idea projects have also been developed and are in the process, the process of obtaining a local authorisation. After that, we can access the Croatian highways in the public procurement process. The completion of that stock, which will then be fully and which will then have a full meaning, is foreseen for mid-2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25661	I thank the Secretary of State. You're free to go. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. First up, the Club of Croatian Sovereigns and counterparts Zekanovic. My colleague Zekanovic doesn't have the right to debate. Well, then we're going to the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Ivan Radic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25662	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues. I believe it won't be a surprise if at the beginning of my presentation, I stress that I will, as an Ossetian and parliamentary representative, come from IV. Election units with special satisfaction to support the Final Bill on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of part of the project Croatia completes the highway on corridor 5C. For Osijek-Baranja County, but also for my Osijek traffic corridor 5C is of paramount importance. At its end, it will connect Budapest, Osijek, Sarajevo and Ploče, and will also represent an extremely important link that will reunite Central Europe's economic and transport space with its Southeast part. By letting go of its full length, the complete east of the Republic of Croatia will win I dare say a completely new position in the context of road traffic. Subject law confirms the Treaty on the Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which will finance part of the project Croatia to complete the highway on corridor 5C and the Croatian Autoroad d.o.o. has been committed as a borrower regularly and fully comply with all financial obligations. The loan will finance the completion of the construction of two 5C corridors related to a 17 and a half km long share between Halasic Bridge and Beli Manastir and a 5km long share between the Beli Manastir and the Hungarian border, as well as the acquisition and installation of the corresponding highway equipment. The Croatian highways d.o.o. provide a part of the funding for a part of the project, with a total estimated value of 107m euros, with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development ready to finance a part of the necessary funds of 55m euros. It is important to note that the loan funds will be available within an extremely short period. Building a full profile of the 5C highway stock is of strategic importance for Slavonia and Baranja, but also for the Republic of Croatia as a whole. For this speaker, I would especially like to mention Osijek-Baranja Mayor Ivan Anusic, who has placed an emphasis on this project from the beginning of his term of office in 2007 on the completion of Corridor 5C. With the government headed by President Andrej Plenkovic, he is definitely one of the most responsible persons who, by their engagement and commitment, created preconditions for the realization of this extremely important story for the east of Croatia. The project itself fits into another big story, which is the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. The continuation of this major infrastructure project is also a good message bearing in mind the unprecedented crisis in which we are located, which means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not given up large infrastructure projects. I must remind you that not so long ago, the government provided for by the SDP or the SDP government gave up building the highway and the stock we're talking about today wanted to build as a fast road. It is fortunate that such a bad decision has changed and that the current government has decided to build a full profile of the highway. Of course, it was necessary to provide financial construction and design, but if the decision remained the kind of colleagues from the SDP imagined by Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, they would be irreversibly damaged, for example, as we did during the SDP Government by dividing them into a negative 2 regions, placed unfairly with Zagreb, in the same category as Zagreb. But I repeat, fortunately, it's not today's subject and we've corrected it. The project goes on. It's progressing, that's what's important. There are people living in eastern Croatia who love that part of our country and who make decisions in the interest of the resident population there. Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem are perfectly positioned, and the largest city of Slavonia Osijek is located almost in the middle of the 4 capital of Europe. Better integration will open up a new perspective and enable the most important one, which is economic progress and development. In view of the above, it is clear that I have already initially said that I support the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of part of the project Croatia completes the highway on corridor 5C. I will strongly support him and invite other colleagues to do the same for the sake of our Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25663	Thank you, too. I will now invite my colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, to speak to us on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. His speech should be followed by a video link. Do I hear from my colleague Hajdukovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25664	I'll talk to you, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25665	I just can't see you. I don't know what the problem is. There he is. Okay. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25666	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm going to be the one to discuss my colleague who spoke before me. He spoke a lot about eastern Croatia. People who live in eastern Croatia, that you will not believe there are even more of them, and as the government refers to the east of Croatia, there are still people living in the east of Croatia and there are more people who love and want to stay in the east of Croatia. For the east of Croatia, it is very important that this is exactly how the colleague said Corridor 5C because he will complete and complete the picture of road construction on international corridors passing through the Republic of Croatia. The same corridor is important not only because of the east of Croatia, but also because of the south and because of the port of Ploče, which, at the end of the complete profile of the corridors, should be given importance through Bosnia and Herzegovina and become the second most likely for the importance of the ports after the Rijeka in the Republic of Croatia, that is, that is to say, the link with Budapest and the rest of Europe through Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, as the work in Bosnia and Herzegovina progresses, I do not know when we will welcome the corridor to be functional in the full sense of the word. Just as the Hungarian sides do, their plans to merge the corridors remain to be seen because another small part of the stock remains for the merger between Mohač and the Croatian border itself. And as far as I know, the information I have last, the Hungarian side hasn't even started yet. I don't know what it's like to design and other pre-medies to start work. But in any case, they said that so far they are not planning a merger or that for a long time there was no intention of building... profile. [[You don't understand.]] With that in mind, we should welcome the government's absolutely insistence to complete this project. But I would draw attention and take this opportunity to other important projects. One also refers to corridor 5C, which is of course a railway corridor and it is a railway track from Osijek via Podravina to Koprivnica, Križevci and then towards Zagreb. So, if we're talking about traffic connection, I can't mention this. First of all, rail corridor 5C is also something to consider and what we should plan on... Which is more so-called European money. [[You don't understand.]] However, in order for some corridors to get European money, it should be a priority for all the countries it is going through, and so far railway corridor 5B is a priority for Hungary. So this is also a job for our Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make sure Hungary is sure that corridor 5C is very important for this railway and for Hungary itself. Of course for Bosnia and Herzegovina is what is vital because it is the only international corridor that passes through Bosnia and Herzegovina. The railway line from Osijek towards Virovitica and later on, Koprivnica and Zagreb is also important because of economic integration and Podravina, as well as Osijek-Baranja County. So, it's an extremely important railroad that's unfortunately in very bad shape and I just, I don't want to be a bad prophet, but I think we're just waiting for a time when we're going to read about it in very negative tones. Therefore, in addition to road transport, rail transport is extremely important as regards the rise of industry and industrial activities. Research also shows that, as a rule, between 30 and 50 kilometers from the highway, so where the highway passes, economic activity increases 10 to 15%. I think it will be an exceptional cloister of Baranja through which the highway will go through more than Baranja has, although it has developed very much lately, although it has invested very much in continental tourism, wine tourism and so on. It takes a lot more, a lot of incentives to achieve the economic development she had before the Homeland War. So, according to what I said, this is an extremely important project for the East of Croatia so that the people in it can stay there, and perhaps some have returned to the foreseeable future. I must also say encouraged by the debate I heard before that the only thing Mayor Anusic did in our county had raised employment and that significantly above all by hiring in the county administration. That's what I congratulate him on this time. And corridor 5C and its completion were not invented by Prime Minister Plenkovic or Mayor Anusic, just as we did not invent many skeletons that just fell out of the closet when we assumed power in 2011. And accordingly we had limited resources and limited mode of action regarding and regarding the completion of this corridor, and we couldn't commit ourselves to that in the extent that we could. I'm going to remind some of the younger maybe among us who don't remember that there was an economic crisis back then and not a small one primarily caused by global movements, but then caused by HDZ's activities in internal politics. I will remind you only Fimi Media and many other media that we have witnessed and that at the end of the day and HDZ was on the indictee's bench and was convicted as former Prime Minister Sanader. In any case, this project that needs to be supported is a project that means a lot to the east of Slavonia, but also state secretaries we would like to hear about the cost projection of miles of highway through Baranja, because this is a data that we did not hear on the board, and it would be good for us, but also for interested Croatian public to hear that information at least in the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25667	Now we're going to an individual debate. It is next, dear colleague Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25668	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law confirms the Treaty on the Guarantee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of part of the project Croatia completed the highway on 2 July 2020. By passing this Act, the company of Croatian highways d.o.o. It has provided a 55m-euro credit debt, providing part of the funding for the part of the project to complete the highway on corridor 5C whose total estimated value is 107m euros. The purpose of the loan is to finance the completion of the construction of two 5C corridors related to a 17 and a half km long share between the Halasica bridge and the Beli Manastir bridge and a 5km long share between the Beli Manastir and the Hungarian border, as well as the acquisition of all and the installation of all relevant highway equipment. Corridor 5C is part of a comprehensive TEN-T network of European corridors. Its construction contributes to increasing mobility, territorial, economic and social cohesion of all regions and countries to which it passes. In order to continue economic growth and competitiveness, corridor 5C starts in the north, means in Budapest, heading south through Hungary to the border from the Croatian border of the Beli Manastir, the end of Osijek, Djakova to the lower Sava River, Svilaj to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and further to the south by Sarajevo to the southern border of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to the port of Ploca on the Adriatic Sea. The A5 highway is this road 5C corridor through Croatia Beli Manastir – Osijek – Svilaj represents a transport corridor of European importance in the context of... for the economic and tourism integration of Central Europe through the Hungarian and Croatian Podunje and through Bosnia and Herzegovina with the southern Adriatic and the port of Ploca. [[You don't understand.]] In the transport network of the Republic of Croatia, this road route represents the backbone of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema and eastern Croatia, and also allows the shortest connection of the northern continental area through the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the coast and highway A10, which enables the connection of the hinterland with the port of Ploče, and further connecting the A5 highway with the long-formed highway A3 on the basic TEN-T network allows better connection between Slavonia and Baranja with the central Croatian and other routes of the national highway network. Due to the characteristics of the terrain passing the A5 highway, it is the direction that requires the smallest financial investment and construction in relation to other directions in the Republic of Croatia, as we heard from the secretary of state about 65 million per km, and precisely as counterpart Hajdukovic told us how many these 22 kilometers through Baranja if the investment was planned 107 million euros. So 4,75 million euros is a kilometer away or some 36 million kuna per km, and the most significant investments are those of the most demanding buildings in the direction, which are bridges on the Sava and Dravi rivers. For example, the Sava Bridge cost 170 million of which 50% paid for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia while the Drava Bridge stood at 950 million kuna, a demanding building 2 and a half kilometers long with a demanding distance crossing across the Sava River hung about two, roads, highways hung about two high A pillars. By building these two shares of a total length of 22.5 kilometers, Croatia completes the last kilometers of the route to complete and complete its 5C corridor section through Croatia until 2024. During 2020, significant restructurings were carried out in the Croatian highway company, which provide 2.3 billion kuna, less burden on the liquidity of the company in the period 2021-23 during the recovery of toll revenues caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus. The following HAC has provided financial sustainability and resilience which enables it to meet the obligations of the future operating period from regular business activities, including the obligation under consideration with the ERBD to complete the construction of 5C corridors. I certainly support the adoption of this law in order to ensure some of the funds to complete 5C corridors as a priority project for Croatia, which is of paramount importance for the economic development of the area it is going through, while here in a transport sense will help increase the comfort of travel, reduce travel times and increase traffic safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25669	Thank you. Let's go with the replicas. First up, she's a colleague of Maximchuk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25670	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow corridor 5C is of paramount importance to Slavonia. The completion of this corridor is one of the priorities of this government whose realisation will ensure a better transport link between the east of Croatia. But what the citizens of Slavonski Brod of our city certainly look forward to is the release of the bridge on the Sava near Svilaj. The release of this bridge will certainly reduce traffic jams at the Slavonski Brod border crossing – the Bosnian Ship to which we witness almost daily especially in the holidays and holidays when traffic closures are enormous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25671	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25672	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Well corridor 5C through Croatia is about 96 kilometers long. Most of it passes through Osijek County, while in Brod-Posavina County it means about 25km from Vrpolja to the motif in Svilaj and that stock is built as a whole, not put into circulation means from Svilaj to the bridge that was also built. It's waiting to finish off the highway from Odjak's bridge on Savi from the Bosnian side which I believe will be quickly released into traffic. But it's very important for the citizens of Slavonski Brod not only because of traffic jams, but also because of the pollution that occurs in our city due to the retention of the so-called force of transit that goes through the practical center of the city. And here's a good thing to let it go as soon as possible so we can solve that unnecessary transit of heavy trucks going into our city. And on the other hand, we're lucky to say on the west side of town there's a bridge built near Stara Gradiška so our county will have two transit bridges across the Sava River.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25673	Thank you. Here you go, pal Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25674	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, you agree that any project anywhere in our beautiful family should be supported if it will bring a better and better life, especially in our Slavonia that suffered and bled in peace, and now it is also hard to suffer and live. And you believe that this project will bring if nothing else is faster and better placed on certain products especially when it comes to agriculture in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25675	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25676	I thank my colleague. Well, I certainly said in my statement that this road is the backbone of the traffic and the connection of the area it passes through, means through Baranja and Slavonia and all of those roads are needed and connected on that highway, and we know that exactly transit or traffic is one big item in costing that, the final cost of costing products and all of our manufacturers who have the goods that should go on to say further the market will get both the convenience and the greater security, and the higher speed so that this road certainly comes very well to the economy of course and to all others for the safety of traffic on such highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25677	Here you go, fellow Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25678	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. A respected colleague, as I said in my presentation, thanks to the HDZ government and the great commitment of the mayor of Osijek-Baranja Ivan Anusic, we corrected the injustice committed by the SDP government and wanted to build this section as a fast road. As they wronged us in eastern Croatia and when they brought us together in NUS2 regions with far more developed Zagreb. Some of the projects that take place in eastern Croatia, which are the work of these governments, are the reconstruction and reconstruction of the railway station worth 36 million kuna. Reconstruction of Osijek railway – Virovitica worth over a billion and 100 million kuna. You mentioned that the stock price of corridor 5C per km is the cheapest. Do you know what the other shares were at a kilometer price? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25679	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25680	Thank you very much. Right from the end. So, according to my indicators, how much data do I have the price of A1 corridor is about 100 million kuna, while now in the Croatian highways, they predict some plan price to go further to Dubrovnik cca 150 million per km probably because of the demanding stock that needs to be passed, of course, because we know that other than to say objects to price shares dictates and the market and whether there are enough jobs on the market or not. So you estimate a much higher price. As far as this government's investment is concerned, it's safe to say well, it's supported, well echoed in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and in our Brod-Posavina County. There's a lot of investment in traffic, there's a lot of investment in roads, and I think this is a decade of railways, and that's very good because our railroad is not at the level of traffic and traffic like we have highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25681	Now it's time for fellow Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25682	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, it is quite clear if we want people to stay alive in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem that we must provide them with adequate social, social, communal infrastructure. There are also important roads, and corridor 5C is certainly important not only because it will connect Baranja with the rest of Croatia, but also northern Europe with the Adriatic. I wanted to actually hear your comment on how much you think that this project is generally important for Central Europe, Southeast Europe when we talk about economic and transport development, more than the European Commission has recognized this project and financed some of its important components. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25683	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25684	I thanked you for saying that this direction corridor 5C belongs to one, in this main network of European corridors, and it will certainly connect Central Europe with South East Europe, meaning the countries of Ukraine, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland are directly linked to this, to the traffic and to the port of Ploče and the Adriatic Sea, which it may now not have as much traffic as it would be worth, but when this part of Bosnia through which is about 100 and some km away, I believe that this corridor will get its true meaning, that it will return traffic to that corridor because the Adriatic ports are important for the economy and for the whole business and Central Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25685	Comrade Barbaric, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25686	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague here we have already heard the importance of this project for the east of Croatia, Croatia, the importance of this project for the port of Ploče, for the stronger economic cooperation of the two countries. The project through BiH is going, next year there is a tender for the most difficult stock that is the tunnel Prej so White Polje – Konjic and I believe it will be completed within 5 years. The issue therefore concerns the number of tourists from Central Europe visiting the Adriatic coast and potential, the human potential in this area. With the completion of this project, through the completion of the Pelješko bridge, you can see whether it will give an additional wind in the back to engage truly valuable potentials, tourist potentials of southern Croatia, but also parts of BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25687	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25688	I thank my colleague for saying that BiH has not yet built 2/3 of its highways and certainly by building highways through BiH and especially this most demanding part down from Sarajevo to the border with the Republic of Croatia is a demanding stock and this is all to say waiting for the completion of the stake to return to traffic on that highway. We know that highways should also serve more by road, passenger traffic, more or less, we should serve this less to tell freight traffic due to environmental pollution. Europe's intensity is to return freight to the railways, so I'm sure together with, parallel to this highway, they will invest in railways on this corridor because the port of Ploche is interesting for the economy, and of course tourism is one of the important branches of the economy. So they'll bring us faster, safer and middle-class guests from Central Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25689	And let's go to the last line, video link, colleague Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25690	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just one small correction at the beginning, when you talk about Slavonia you must also talk about Baranja, Baranja is our micro region that is often forgotten, but since the highway passes through Baranja I think it is important to emphasize it. Please also allow us to be a little skeptical about the cost of a kilometer of highway means at the end of Slavonica or Corridor 5C because we had a case that while HDZ's government was also building a stock from the Middles to Djakova, it cost more than a kilometer through Gorski Kotar and Liku when other corridors were being built. So it's something that just doesn't hold water. Also, the tunnels were painted several times and not to mention everything, which is why we're starting to get our scapsicles, whether or not we're taking the loan because of the real, real cost. And when we talk about the injustices the HDZ Government has corrected, here's a question for you fellow HDZ Government will correct the injustices committed to the Croatian people in the form of the Fami Media, the Mountain and many others. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25691	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25692	I thank my colleague, I apologize if I have mentioned not enough times, I have mentioned Baranja to Slavonia. As far as your question is concerned, I wouldn't want to depolize here, I think the prices I've received and in preparation for this session are the prices that are, and I said that they depend on the situation on the market as well, means whether there's a job, there's no job on the market and what objects they are. Only the bridge at the Drava on Savi has eaten a lot of that money and all the other crossings that were made on that highway. This road that works now in these 22, 22.5 km will cost twice as much as the average highway at least so they have in the proposal. So 36 million kunas that road comes a mile away this part that's left to finish these 22km to the border with Hungary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-14-0.u25693	Thank you, fellow Cosic. This is what we came to the end of the debate, I'm locking it up, we'll vote when the conditions come to pass. This is what we've exhausted today's agenda points, we're left with a statement on the amendments as I have announced, and at the beginning it'll be at 3:00, so we'll continue at 3:00. It's 11:00.59. Honorable MPs, respected MPs, just before we start voting, information that I'm based on an article. 220 and 221. At the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, HS Rules of Procedure convened the 5th extraordinary meeting of the HS for 16th, 17th and 18th December 2020. Right now, I've also told the secretary of the plenary session to be on the way, meaning the call with both the agenda and the work schedule for the next three days. And now we're going to move on to what's planned, and that's the vote. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda with 1. Under: (a) Report on consultations on the intention of declaring the Republic of Croatia's IGP in the Adriatic Sea (a) Proposal for a decision to declare the IGP of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. 1. Proposal for a decision to adopt a Council decision on a system of EU own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU Euratom and 1. Proposal for a law amending the Penal Code with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 88. Proposer - Club of Representatives of the SDP. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. If any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under point 3 of the proposed supplement, that is, the point of the Proposal for a Law amending the Penal Code with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 88th, is the SDP Representatives' Club the promoter? If there are no objections, then I believe the motion for an emergency procedure has been accepted. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. There are no rules of procedure of written objections at the remaining points of the draft agenda, i.e. all the proposed items are included in the session agenda. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
