ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5350	We move to deliver a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives. The first is Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac, who will present the position of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5351	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I will try to tell you today how the Croatian village has failed. So, turning back, devastation and the destruction of the village is very easy to recapture, even easier if you are a witness to the process yourself for the last 20 years. The beginning of the collapse of villages and the independence of Croatia begins with the privatisation process, we all see no one reacting, combined, picks become easy prey for those who until then have outdone, even for those who were directors, equally, only the membership card is important, red and blue. A fictitious public auction is held where the combined value of hundreds of thousands of kunas is sold for 1 kuna, tractors, trailers, plowers all equally worth 1 kuna, but not for everyone. We only listen to auctions when the dark falls from some local who dares not speak out loud and see everything in whose backyards are parked, but no one reacts. We're thinking, so I guess institutions are doing their job. After a very successful privatisation of machines, task number two was to be attached. What will newly-roasted farmers do with privatized machines? Countys have decided to be very generous to their supporters and are moving towards a new privatisation of the conclusion of a country's lease agreement owned by the Republic of Croatia and again not for everyone. It is known who can get the round plots, the processing area remaining after a successful privatisation for all hundred kunas of rent per year on average. Contracts are signed by mayors, very important figures who don't talk to ordinary peasants, only the like. It's been the first 10 years of renting state land. Without a tender, lease contracts are extended for the same money for another 10 years. At the time of negotiations with the EU, the mayors should no longer, based on a discretionary assessment, grant land, but rather define the procedure that requires tendering. However, the process of assignment goes down to local self-government and the vampire ball continues. Some council members led the commissioners, themselves, their wives, godfathers, re-deploying land for use. There's almost no cattlemen here because cattlemen don't get to do politics. They agree, the data on the number of non-existent livestock on the economy and the like are available. Although the DORH registrations are written by letters to the Ministry of Agriculture, irregularities in the implementation of the tenders are indicated, public televisions are recorded by depressed peasants who are being deceived three times, no one reacts. What's left for the villagers? To complain to municipal courts. Municipal courts have taken the view that such cases are not taken to be resolved. Similarly, the requirements for the revision of the assigned land have been disputed. Although in the ministry, including in the DORH, individuals point out with the evidence provided that it was false data on the basis of which the tenants were taking precedence, no one reacts. And users of operational programmes for livestock development ruled local sheriffs by dividing land, mostly by party line. They even took away the land they had under an economic programme that approved HBOR loans. The absurd situation where the state has committed you to producing cheap raw materials for a foreign corporation with an agreed penalty if there is a decrease in production, has burdened you with huge amounts of credit obligations and has taken away your land in which you should produce food for cattle, we have only in the Croatian village. All that stuff to many cattlemen was too much. They give up and go after the bread from Slavonia with their stomachs. And how does it end? The land for which party individuals have fought so badly gives a good part to third parties for processing, although land lease contracts are clearly defined as not to be given to a third party for use. The Croatian village urgently needs to review all contracts concluded on state agricultural land, as well as all economic programmes on which the land was leased. Many honest farmers have appealed to the necessity of reviewing the use of agricultural land on all present legislation prohibited subletting state land and as common cases, non-payment of leases for state land. But it didn't work. And of course we have a question, do we have a legal state in Croatia? If we did, our village wouldn't be suffering today from high indifference, market instability, high debt and an exodus of the population, and all because of the frighteningly poor land policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5352	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pavliček will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5416	Dear colleagues and colleagues, just a few months ago, this is exactly where the SDSS parliamentary representative Anja Shimpraga presented her position and her experience of military-related action The Storm where she left Croatia as a girl in the column. Her speech has been characterized in the media as a historic speech, as a reconciliation speech, as a speech full of emotion. He has caused numerous reactions in Croatian society. Yesterday, an SDSS MP, Dragan Jeckov, also caused numerous reactions in her free speech, especially in the suffering population. Many individuals reacted, including Sandra Rapčak, president of the Association of Children of the Dead and Missing Defendants, Croatian defenders of the Homeland War. However, Sandra Rapčak does not have this parliamentary stage and is unable to present her testimony to all of you and to the entire Croatian public. But here I am, in agreement with Sandra decided what she published on her Facebook page to read to all of you. A representative in the Croatian Assembly from the SDSS from Negoslavci, village to Vukovar, today talks about Ustasha streets throughout the Republic of Croatia. She would ask a few questions for the person concerned today. When it confesses and begins to speak publicly of crimes and criminals from their village who have tortured, raped and killed Croats and the rest of the non-Serb population. When it will confess and publicly say that just in the Negoslavs there were camps or so on. House arrests, in which the above-mentioned crimes and interrogations seemed? Honorable MPs, just today '91. Mr. My family and I were taken from our village of Sotina to your village of Negoslavci, where we were questioned and tortured, where my mother was raped by fellow Americans. Your countryman said then to put my dad first. It's your locals who took my dad today and killed him. We haven't found his remains until today, and your locals know the truth about it very well. When are you gonna talk about it in HS? Many have been killed in your village. Most of us are still looking. Since you're not ashamed to talk about street names in our home country, and at the same time to prosecute the crimes committed by your locals and countrymen because crossing is the same crime, and we all know that the Negoslavis are not New York and that you all know everything. Dear MPs, are you ashamed when you look in the mirror, are you afraid of God’s judgment? If you're not up until now, I think it's about time you became aware of it. Every one of us to whom God's judgment and justice." Sandra Rapchak. These are the fate and the testimony of hundreds. On Monday, September 28th, the prime minister of the government, along with the SDSS vice president and Assembly representative Milorad Pupovac, was in Varivod, where he bowed innocently to the victims. Personally, I think it's really civil, human, and above all Christian to honor all innocent victims of war. But all day later, we had the marking of the victims of the people of Korođ, the majority of the Hungarian population, today we had the victims of Petrovac, mostly populated by the Ukrainians and the Russians, and one and the other were killed in large Serb aggression, but there were no Prime Ministers or Deputy Prime Ministers of the SDSS or Parliamentary Representative Milorad Pupovac on these markings. The Deputy Prime Minister of the SDSS and Milorad Pupovac have never been to the memorials in Lovas, Berk, Pigs, Čakovci, Tovarnik, Sotina, Tordinci, Cells, Voćinu, Pakrac, Kostajnica, Baćin, Kućana, Slunja and I could do so indefinitely. All these places hide similar testimonies and fates as Sandra does. And let's not let certain victims be more important than other victims. And as long as it's fate I'll talk about it in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5417	Thank you very much, time. - Mrs. Crescent. Natalija Martincevic will speak or be represented, will be the positions of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5489	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. On Tuesday, September 29th, there was a interruption in the work of fixed and mobile telephony in the Republic of Croatia. The break lasted from 10.15 to 16,15, so 6 hours. The cause of the interruption, as reported by Hrvatski Telekom was not in human error, nor in a hacker attack, but in equipment failure. This isn't the first case. In fact, we also had a complete interruption in the work of teleoperators in 2015. and in several counties in 2017. This interruption of telecommunications services, except that it has caused great inconvenience to all citizens, points to one big and very serious problem, the problem that due to one’s infrastructure failure, one teleoperer was unreachable to citizens of all emergency services, police, fire departments, 112 emergency medical care centers, hospitals and therefore for a long 6 hours. To us that we couldn't communicate for the six hours probably nothing spectacular happened to us, but to people who were in an accident, car crash, fire, a health situation like a stroke, a heart attack, it was a serious problem, and in this context it was really not an ordinary six hours but a long six hours. We know that in such situations, people's lives depend on seconds. The failures, of course, are always possible and happen to all operators in the world. But what really concerns is the dependence of the Croatian state on one teleoperer, so it doesn't matter who it is, it's about Croatian Telekom, but in fact we're completely in these situations dependent on one teleoperer and that's actually the point of this debate. According to the information we have, what has proved to be a particularly big problem here is how to direct incoming calls to emergency services. Emergency services are connected to multiple operators when it comes to outgoing calls. However, when it comes to incoming calls, so establish a telecommunications system, it suggests that all calls can go through only one teleoper. That's why our citizens couldn't get any firemen, no police, no ambulance, and everything I've listed. This may not be the problem with the highest level of national security, but it is certainly a serious security problem that a serious state cannot allow. Yesterday's malfunction showed that the way the incoming calls are rerouted to emergency services, so it's not reliable and it's not good. He showed that an ordinary malfunction that could always happen is easily paralysing the most important services in the country and showed that neither Hrvatski Telekom nor the government reacted well. As I have already pointed out, 6 hours is a long time and it is not normal that no one at 6 p.m. found a solution to how citizens can call emergency numbers or at least 112. Instructions to citizens on alternative numbers through calls applications for online calls for people who are in serious danger and who are at risk does not deserve a serious comment. Therefore, key systems cannot depend on the infrastructure of only one teleoperator but must be linked to several independent and interconnected infrastructures, which means that at the time of the failure or failure of one teleoperator system, another infrastructure can be used and the system can continue to function normally. This is a major problem for the functioning of the state, involving several ministries, and especially the civil protection directorship, because this event also shows that a slightly larger malfunction on the system can lead to a collapse of the system at the level of the state. It tells us that in this case, the state is not thinking strategically about critical infrastructure, it uses private teleoperate services which, of course, are the first objective of profit, not the safety of citizens. And to make things worse, in this case only one teleoper's services are used. As we can see, it's a serious threat because we know, we're actually completely in a situation where we don't know when it's going to happen again and how long it's going to take. Now that we have learned the lesson in a more difficult way, we believe that we need to immediately establish other methods of mergers that are technically possible, and they will, of course, require changes in regulations and additional investments and funds in equipment. However, there is the goal that in the case of the fall of one teleoperator system again, we have alternative solutions or that we can switch to other operators. So the solution is there, so I ask the government and the resolution ministries to bring together experts and, as soon as possible, lay down a system that our citizens, when a private operator fails, would not be threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5490	Thank you, too. Let's move on, Ms. Marijana Puljak will be the position of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5516	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will take the opportunity today to talk about the same topic that several parliamentary representatives have warned here, and here I will use the name of our club to warn about this problem, and these are the problems of professional and specialist studies in Croatia. In fact, students of these studies have found themselves in great uncertainty and fear for their diplomas. At the request of the Rector of the Zagreb University of Damir Boras and the 4 Faculty of Law who, in their case, claim that learning outcomes are so different in university and professional studies, that only students of university studies have such learning outcomes where they think creatively and innovatively, among other things, the Constitutional Court has made a decision that repeals part of the Law on the Croatian Qualification Framework which directly regulates the qualification acquired after the completion of professional and specialist studies. Following the decision, the Constitutional Court prescribed the legislator a deadline by the end of 31.12. of this year in which amendments to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework should be adopted in order to re-arrange the qualification level of professional and specialist studies. If that happens, the current and future students will find themselves in big trouble, given that they will fall under the so-called. a legal gap, which means that there will be no law in force that regulates their acquired qualification. In other words, until the new law is passed, if the deadline of 31.12 is exceeded, the last qualification it will have, and it is governed by law, will be secondary education. This is inadmissible for the reason that students who have already completed their education would find the biggest problem, are in a working relationship based on acquired diplomas because we do not know how employers would put themselves in the situation. I note that a large number of civil servants are also needed for the uninterrupted normal functioning of society, namely employees with degrees of professional studies. In addition to the deadlines set which, for these reasons, would be very unserious and irresponsible to overstep and thus put a huge number of people in the problem, are addressed by numbers from 50 to 100,000 people directly concerned, students of professional and specialist studies face another problem. One of them is that the Rector Boras and 4 law schools require that professional studies be at a lower qualification level despite the equivalent number of ECTS points, so, for example, if students of university studies with 183 and 300 ETCS points were eligible at level 7 while with the same number of points the students of vocational studies would be at qualification level 6. Such a qualification arrangement is in full compliance with the European Qualifications Framework, as well as with the practice of all developed European countries, and the Republic of Croatia would deal with this in contrast with EU recommendations. This brings us to another problem that students face, these are academic names. After completing their education, students of professional studies obtain an academic name from an academic specialist who does not exist anywhere in the world except in the Republic of Croatia, as such they are rarely recognized beyond the borders of Croatia and have major problems in explaining their academic title to potential employers. Students are asking to equalise themselves with university studies and in this segment, so they suggest changing the academic title to a professional magistrate which would also show that they are as valuable as their university colleagues. As I have already mentioned, professional studies educate some of the professions, and for the normal functioning of society, directly prepare labour force for the labour market while university studies prepare students for science work and are based more on scientific approach and research. This story brings us to a paradox in which university rectors support such changes of law while these same universities perform professional studies programmes in which they directly discriminate against their own students. I invite you all colleagues and colleagues to directly engage in the Government's warning of this problem in order to help together to prevent discrimination against these young and educational people. I warn the government and the Resort Ministry that such legal uncertainty moves encourages the young and educational ability to emigrate at a time when we are all talking about an unfavourable demographic picture. I also call on the media to pay attention to this burning problem, the colleagues have already spoken in this assembly about it, but I believe this is necessary again until the authorities are in the process of making an urgent settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5517	Thank you, too. Mr. Zeljko Lenart will present the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5550	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here I would also like to look back today on October 1st, which is being marked as the International Day of Elderly Persons. Elderly, a colleague spoke in a subject that often feels more and more difficult because of everything he has listed as being from the classification, but I think the bigger problem for them is that the older ones have been living in the lockdown regime for 7 months, I cannot contact their loved ones enough if they have them, I can't function normally, I can't move outside of these homes, and you know what the motion does to an older man who needs to move. Of the 146 deceased in this second summer wave of pandemic, 109 is over 79 years old. It tells us how sensitive the population of older people is to this pandemic and how hard we all have to try to help them get through these difficult days of pandemic and that the more decent they can spend their older days. Here in the Sunday fire, the victims were again two old women. Six people were burned in Zagorje less than a year ago, so HSS as a humanistic and socially sensitive party from its very beginnings advocates family protection, and the family includes elderly people who unfortunately do not have a family who have a hard time living their old days. We therefore appeal to the Resort Ministry to launch a serious debate in the regulation of social protection, the enhanced work of inspection services in order to protect those who gave this society the most, and that is their entire working life. They've been creating society all their working lives, creating industry, creating everything we inherited from them, but unfortunately today we're not taking care of them enough. Here's every day when I walk from HS to people who dig in containers, who repent in bins, and they belong to this group of older people, I don't think we should let this society where the money goes and throws it all over the garages or I don't know where it's all gone, take it to the bags that people who built it today sell and break up some people to live, to be hungry, to live on the edge of survival. So remember, if we're lucky, we'll all get older once. We need happiness with such a health system as it is today in the Republic of Croatia because you really must be lucky to have good genetics, to have saved yourself from risk factors and to experience this older age. So I appeal once again to everything, give people a little look around you, be sensitive to these people, those people who, under the old days and begging outside, are hungry and exhausted and have no heat, let's try to improve this social system and more accept the concerns of these people because these people live and around us, these are our parents, grandparents, those are the ones who gave us life and who gave us the opportunity to act in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5551	Thank you, too. Mr. Zvonimir Troscott will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5587	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. The rights of children in kindergartens are systematic, systematically violated and regularly violated by a pedagogical, state pedagogical standard, which is in fact the primary role in ensuring these rights. The living room for children of Jaslic and kindergarten should provide conditions for the development of individual and individual activities of children and enable free movement, however the reality in Croatian and especially in Zagreb kindergartens is quite different. In the category of standards from 13 to 18 months of a child according to the standard of 8 children, the reality of Zagreb kindergartens is that they are in group 18. In the category of standards from 19th to 24th month, which according to standard requires 12 children, the reality of Zagreb kindergartens, especially in the west of Zagreb, is from 18 to 22 children. In the third year, the standard requires a group of up to 14 children, the reality of Zagreb, especially the west from 22 to 26. In the fifth year, the standard requires 20 children, the reality of Zagreb between 25 and 26. In the sixth year no more than 23 children, the reality of Zagreb is 28 to 31, especially the west of the City of Zagreb. In particular, the City of Zagreb, which is the founder of these kindergartens, made a decision of 20% increase in children per group and without any scientific legal basis. Almost all kindergartens in the western part of town share that same fate where instead of 5 m2 per child reality is somewhere around 2 m2 per child. The question arises in principle, what kind of society are we if we build fountains on the one hand, and on the other hand we violate children's rights already in kindergarten and manger's age when it should have the greatest love and respect. As far as children with difficulties are concerned, their involvement in the regular educational group is an important integrational measure. Children with difficulties can exercise the right of a third kindergartenr, but polls.../incomprehensible/... and the field experience I have seen is actually the opposite. Children with easier difficulties were only 8% in the third breeder, and only 24% in groups involving children with severe and significant difficulties were present. If the kindergarten gets a third raiser then it is transferred to a group where it is, where there is simply no breeder because it has become a deficiting profession and on the other hand the kindergarten teacher unfortunately because of these social pressures increasingly and more often go to sick leave. In this way children with special needs are deprived of the rights of adequate care because the assigned breeders simply do not give them adequate care or time. This means that the pressure of enrolled children above standards is mentioned, breeders are additionally forced to work with children with special needs which is a problem because they are not attracted to it and then suffering children and with special needs because they are neglected rights, children with orderly developmental status because they are too many and ultimately brought to kindergarten by those social pressures in a way that they go abroad or on sick leave. As far as the third paragraph is concerned, the fact is that the salaries to kindergarten teachers in Zagreb were first late for September 2020. According to the collective agreement, they were to be paid in 15.9. they were paid 16th without any explanation, which is an indication that Zagreb has major financial problems. Four epidemiological measures from field talks with kindergarten educators have also made it clear to me that they were not involved in the work of the working group in the development of epidemiological measures on Covid, where the Resort Ministry of Science and Education has shown that pre-school education is important and the first step of the system. Unfortunately, this confirmed something that has been a fact for years, which is that preschool education and education have been systematically neglected and have been placed on the margins. We all used to go to kindergarten and the period of that life we all remember and that's exactly why ours kids and foster girls deserve a lot, a lot more. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5588	Thank you, too. And now at the end of the position of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives will be Mrs Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5623	Thank you. I hope you know and I believe that you know that the European Commission published a long-awaited report yesterday on the rule of law in the EU Member States. It is for the first time that such a report has been made and it is actually an extremely big step for the EU because it has finally recognised that the issue of the rule of law and the protection of human rights within the Member States should not and should not be taken into account and that in some way we do not have the right of candidate countries to condition certain standards of democratisation and protection of human rights if we do not apply them in our own countries. It is no secret of course that the EU has decided to do so, and most of all because of the drastic decline in the quality of the rule of law in Hungary and Poland, which, at least we from the green-left bloc have been looking regretily at in recent years. However, the report shows that the Republic of Croatia is also in the company, that the Republic of Croatia is at the bottom of a scale under the rule of law in the EU, especially in the part concerning functional justice and the fight against corruption. Of course, this does not surprise us in Croatia in particular because this reality of non-functional justice and everyday corruption is living, but it is good that from such a high source and a view outside of independent experts, Andrej Plenkovic is clearly told that the strategy that enables corruption in this country is recognised. And I would say that this report has detected three key strategies that allow corruption in Croatia, which is a non-functional judiciary, attacks on journalists and at all the freedom of the media and narrowing down the space of civil society. These are three key points that are highlighted in the report for Croatia. And what does the report say? He says that there are still serious problems in the judiciary resulting in the lowest confidence of Croatian citizens in EU-level courts, so the lowest confidence in courts is in the EU-level judiciary in Croatia. And the most common reason that citizens cite as a cause of mistrust in the judiciary is precisely the influence of the government and politicians on judicial proceedings. The Commission continues to see problems in the appointment of judges, the length of the process, the very limited publication of judgments, etc., so I would ask you a few of you who stayed here, but above all the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to remind you that in 2016, the SOA warned in its report of a serious security threat that comes because of the compromise and possible corruption of 20 judges in the system, so they were detected who they were. Today is 2020, and I'm asking the question, how many investigations against these judges have been launched in the meantime? How many processes are being conducted, how many people have been convicted and how many of these judges have left the system? We don't have any information on this, which is why we get a negative assessment of the judiciary and the fight against corruption. The Commission, of course, is also concerned by the high perception of corruption in Croatia, i.e. that the vast majority of citizens see corruption as a major problem in the country, but the Commission also noted that the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic attacked the Commission for the prevention of conflicts of interest related to Commission decisions. The European Commission has noted that the government does not approve of the Ombudsman's human rights reports, and that these and the Commission have listed them, reports that are extremely detailed and extremely high-quality. So also one of the key things that has been observed is that there is no obligation, no reporting system, no obligation to report an attempt to influence, or no lobby register. If we had a lobby register so we knew who all the ministers and other members of the government who went to the club, who they were meeting, who tried to lobby them and what the results were, we could control it, this way we can't. And what we can expect when we have an affair in an affair where MPs here change in the ranks of HDZ as on the tape for the reason that their immunity is removed so that once Barisic's immunity is removed, to come as his replacement to Čičak, who, immediately after a few days, discovered that while he was head of the re-purposed agricultural land, himself and his father in the building land, increased his value by a minimum of five times. And then when the Prime Minister says that corruption can happen everywhere, and that's the incidence that sometimes happens in HDZ, and we have continuous affairs that just involve you, we can't say that corruption is random and that it happens to you. By accident. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] It is the result of these three strategies that have been clearly detected in this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5624	Thank you very much. We're done taking the club stand. Tomorrow morning we will continue at 9.30 with the Amendment of the Statute of HINA of the Croatian News Agency or giving consent to the applicant or director of HINA, after which we have another point and that is the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Committee on European Affairs. Thank you very much and goodbye. MEETING Interrupted at 14:02 p.m. It is now not the turn of Mrs Ljubica Lukacic to present the position of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5717	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Can you hear me? Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, before I start talking today about the subject that I have prepared for all our citizens, I would most sincerely congratulate their International Day of Elderly People, and I will only briefly look back at my colleagues' previous exposure, it is not true that he is not taking care of our older citizens. We had a chance to see last week when Prime Minister Plenkovic signed an agreement on the establishment of a National Council for Retired People and Elderly Persons who will be the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all of our pensioners and older persons will be able to propose specifically proposals to the Government to address their problems. And now here's the same thing about the events they marked last week. In the past week, we marked two events, one September 23rd, which is the International Sign Language Day and the last Saturday of September, so Saturday passed which day marks the International Day of Deaf Persons. There have been various events all week long that have brought deaf, deaf and deaf to our citizens, in order to warn both the authorities and the public about their problems, but also to show what has been done for them. On this occasion, I would like to point out once again that I am particularly pleased that we representatives in the Croatian Parliament have had an opportunity to discuss this in 2017 and that our discussions are being transferred to Croatian Sign Language. Equally, HRT translates and meetings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia so that our citizens with hearing problems can be in the process of happening. The Croatian Union of Deaf and Deaf City of Zagreb has published a book which, please, you can take here today and tomorrow at the entrance to the hall on the right. It's a book on international sign language, here I'll try to show it, so international sign language, try learning something. I am sure that it will welcome each of us, and during the day all MPs in the Croatian Parliament will receive one small contact with which the Croatian sign language will be. Here is a gift to all of us from our deaf citizens, I am glad that they remembered us, I believe that we will remember them more often, and I am particularly pleased to share with our deaf citizens, since they are here from last week when the Bible is presented in Croatian Sign Language, 4 Gospels in the Association of the Touchers, so the association of the deaf and the Foundations I believe, I see, and here I believe that we may also have a chance when we learn the Croatian sign language, read these 4 Gospels and so on. At least if one of us tries, we'll be fine, but I'm sure each of us will. At least learn a few words. [[Intruder: Time.]] So here I want to thank our Croatian citizens who have hearing problems, so deaf, deaf and deaf citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5718	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lukacic. The SDP Representatives' Club's position will be presented by counterpart Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5788	Thank you very much. Here is the teaching perhaps of what my colleague mentioned, I think that 57% of children are included in kindergartens in Croatia and 97% in Slovenia. So, when it's most important for cognitive development. But there is another group of people in this country who may well remember today is International Day of Elderly People. In Croatia, there are a quarter of its citizens, so a million and 147 thousand people over 60 years of age or 845 thousand older than 65 years of age who are unfortunately significantly more than that percentage of population representation represented in poverty statistics. Every 5 Croats are threatened with poverty, every 3 years older than 65 years, and every 2 years, 48% of women older than 65 who live in single households. So half those women are exposed, exposed to poverty. This difficult and difficult social situation and the position in which our old fellow citizens are actually producing not only this material deprivation but it greatly contributes to the fact that when it comes to older people that they really need to bear in mind the marginalization of this large corps of our population, that it is not too often actually about ejacism, the age discrimination of people who are discriminated in different ways just because they are older or even considered older. In Croatia, unfortunately, discrimination by age starts not with older people but also women, young women at 45 are considered to be old when going to so-called. The restructuring of companies then first they and those over 50 get fired. So Croatia has afforded itself a luxury which you have few countries to afford, let's say 60 to 65 years of age, I'm talking about working age, only 28% of people in that age, less than 1/3 of people with huge, huge working potential, experience, knowledge, motivation, health are kicked out of the labour market. In the 1990s, unfortunately, we came from 600,000 to over a million pensioners. We have shown contempt for knowledge, for skills, for the only serious resource we have as a country, and we have driven people to the margins, socially shut them down and isolated them, impoverished them, and thrown them out of society. When even on this one level, these rhetorics are narrative, etc. Old people are spoken of more or less explicitly as social costs, as useless extra people, as those who are sick, who are demented, who are characteristicly selfish, chagrisous, boring, mean and who are actually burdened with themselves, their families and society as a whole. The easiest thing to do is to put them in one of the family homes, I won't mention these because they're family actually without any control in which unfortunately worse people, this year in Croatia, eight of them burned them in such retirement homes that no one controls, which are outside the law, in which honor does not apply to all, the unsuspecting types take money, keep people in the dirt, half-hungry in unhygienic conditions, etc. So discrimination between people by age is not something that I would say doesn't even have a conviction. We've kind of come to terms with the fact that older people can be called by any means ugly, we're filled with old man's social networks, peace-loving little people, older jerks, hohejas, so on that one rhetorical level, we're showing contempt for that generation of people who live and live here. Right now, our fellow citizens are locked up in homes without being able to walk, talk or see their family members, their Sudomians, and they are literally more isolated than any of our distinguished remetinian prisoners. We have the possibility, we need this topic to keep constantly open, sensitize and make our institutions and our laws more effective in favour of these fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u5789	Time, thank you very much. I'd let you talk more because the subject is interesting to me, too, but I can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7779	The first is: - The final proposal of the Law amending the Finality Act rests in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 29 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda the Proposer's proposal to discuss this proposal, the legislative proposal, by emergency procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Zdravko Zrinašić, State Secretary, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7780	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected representatives and advocates, the applicable Finality Act, settles in payment systems and settlement systems of financial instruments, shall regulate the finality of the settlement in the settlement systems of the transfer order, consequences and insolvency proceedings against the participant in the system of rights and obligations arising from participation or in relation to the participation of the participants in the system and the rights of the recipient of the insurance instruments in the event of insolvency proceedings against the provider of the instruments of insurance. In view of such professional, professional expressions of the very definitions which have been transposed from a series of directives and regulations, in other words, in terms of these terms and implementation in practice in the context of the capital market, the system of alignment and peace provides depository services, settlement and settlement services and other services to which the operator is managed as an operator by the Central clearing depositary company d.d. or a shortened SKDD, therefore, as a system for the settlement of financial instruments, a central clearing depositary company is designated. The alignment set out in this definition involves the process of preparing the settlement or comparison of data by concluded legal transactions, the setting of time limits for settlement and the calculation of the obligation to settle, and, by the same means, the fulfilment of and the monetary obligations of one payment system participant to another participant and the fulfilment of the obligation to transfer unrealised securities or other financial instruments from one participant to another participant of that system. As regards the bodies supervised in that part, the CNB is responsible for the payment systems applicable to which the provisions of this law apply, which is the Croatian system of large payments, national and clearing systems, and the HANFA for the system for the settlement of financial instruments to which the provisions of this law apply. Therefore, the current Finality of Peace Act was first in 2012, and then in 2016, a series of provisions of the EU Directive, including Directive 9826 of the European Parliament and of the Council on finality, were transposed into payment systems and securities settlement systems. Last year, the Directive was amended by new Directive 2019/879 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May in order to align the concepts used in various legal instruments in the EU. This new directive is part of a risk reduction package, and the terms mentioned above are in line with the provisions of Regulation No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on so on. The OTC derivatives, therefore, are those contracts that are executed on a regulated market and the regulation has arranged for them to be executed and traded for the sake of transparency itself. The new directive was published in the EU Official Journal on 7 June last year, with Member States obliged to bring their legislation into line with it by 28 December this year. Since the definition is identical to that of the Law implementing Regulation 648 and the Capital Market Act of our Croatian law as a roof law in respect of the capital market and marks the entities to which the approval for work has been granted, the terms of the central other Contracting Party and the participant should also be harmonised in this law in order to ensure a uniform understanding of the concepts used in various legal instruments. Therefore, in order to comply with the provisions of the applicable law, this final draft law in Article 3 amends the definitions of the concept of the central other Contracting Party and the definition of the participant. In essence, the central other Contracting Party shall refer to the definitions set out in Article 2(1). Regulation 648, which defines that the central other Contracting Party is the legal person who provides between other contracting parties in contracts traded on one or more higher financial markets and becomes the buyer of each of these sellers and sellers of each buyer. What I told you about us in the opening is the central clearing depositary society. As regards the participants here, the norm has been developed in the context of Article 17. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the 7th step, the authorisation procedure or refusal of an authorisation application shall be discussed. Here, these are just the two definitions that needed to be harmonised, so this opportunity suggests HS to make such changes and accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7781	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first to hold the debate came the distinguished representative Josip Begonja on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7782	Dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to give you a little review. Namely, as already stated, HS was in May 2012. adopt a new law on the finality of intentions in payment systems and systems for the purpose of financial instruments. The relevant law provides for the final intention in the transmission order systems, as well as the consequences of insolvency proceedings or the inability to settle the due payment obligations within the time limits of their maturity over the participant in the system of rights and obligations arising from participation or in connection with the participation of the participants in the system on the one hand, as well as the rights of the recipient of the insurance instruments in cases of insolvency against the provider of the insurance instruments on the other hand. Subject law contains, in substance, the definitions of certain concepts stemming from Directive 98/26 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the final accounting of securities accounting and payment systems. In addition, these laws define systems for the execution of orders for transfer, jurisdiction, acceptance and irrevocability of transfer orders, insolvency proceedings and the moment of opening of insolvency proceedings against the participant, validity and obligation of transfer and accounting orders in case of opening of insolvency proceedings against the participant, notification of the opening of insolvency proceedings against the participant, the rights of the recipient of the insurance instruments in the case of insolvency proceedings against the insurance provider, the registration of the system of application of law, and the notification of the European Commission by the CNB and the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. With the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, we have become obliged to take the EU acquis into our legal system, so that the law, as it was just said, is proposed in May 2016. have also experienced its first amendments and additions mainly related to new EU directives amending and supplementing Directive 98/26, as well as other Directives governing the powers of the European Banking Supervisory Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisory Authority, and the European Securities Supervisory Authority and the Capital Market. The amendments to the legal novel are also subject to the adoption of the Regulation. 648 of 2012 and 909 of 2014 The European Council and the European Parliament. In May of last year, the European Parliament and the EU Council adopted a new Directive 879 amending Directive 20, 2014/59 as regards the capacity to cover losses and the capitalisation of institutions and investment companies, and amending again that Directive 98/26 in order to ensure uniform understanding of the concepts used in various legal instruments. Therefore, as already stated in Directive 98/26, the definitions of part of the concepts have been amended, and that is the term ‘centre other Contracting Party’ and the term ‘participator’ in a way that the definitions of those definitions are aligned with the definitions of the same, same terms, as set out in Regulation No. 648 of 2012 which, among other things, regulates the issue of approval and supervision of central other Contracting Parties, as well as with the definitions set out in the provisions of the Capital Market Act. Finally, as I was saying earlier, the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to continuously bring its legislation into line with the acquis, which means, in particular, the harmonisation of the applicable law with the provisions of the new Directive 879 of last year, which amends the provisions of Directive 98/26 in that content. It is also important to note once again that all EU Member States are obliged to bring their legislation into line by the end of December 2020 with those provisions of this new directive. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this government's Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Finality of Purpose Act in payment systems and systems for the purpose of financial instruments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7783	Thank you. The next debate is a respected representative of Boris Lalovac on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7784	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As has already been said here at the outset by my colleagues that, because of the continued harmonisation of legislation with the acquis, the EU has approached the draft law in order to comply with the applicable law on.../incomprehensible/... provisions of Directive 98/96, so that it is established by new Directive 2019/879. I won't, I won't actually repeat myself, it's a law that only has two articles, whether it's just two articles and a harmonisation of concepts. However, I will try to explain it in a simple way. Croatia is access to the European market and to the European capital market, meaning that the roof law is the Capital Market Act and all transactions between the Republic of Croatia, means citizens of the Republic of Croatia, businesses, business entities in the Republic of Croatia with EU member states, we must be Normans.../incomprehensible/... must have a norm. It must have a certain standard. So it has to have a standard and it's trying to form a single European capital market. So the free flow of people, goods and services has already been defined by other laws, but here we are talking about the free flow of capital between certain countries, and in this way the concepts between all these participants are also harmonised because we see that it is very complicated, for ordinary citizens, very incomprehensible certain concepts, however, this is mainly intended for business entities, those in charge of carrying out these payment transactions, primarily for the CNB and the SKDD, means how to standardise transactions, or standardise transactions, payment transactions between large business entities in particular, between banks and primarily between other insurance companies and capital markets. We remember back there from the 1990s when we were talking about the payment system, when there was a break-in of the Croatian payment system, so certain tails, FINA and CNB, etc., and only recently did this particular dispute between the CNB and FINA, about the 1990s about that incursion into the payment system. And it is probably not easy to make certain standards so that there can be a free flow of capital and services and a definition between all 27 EU member states. So, this actually strengthens, this law and this directive actually strengthens the whole legal framework, reduces certain costs, reduces the costs between transactions, because what is most important in the capital market... The flow of capital within the EU, that you have security, that when you want to buy a particular share, when you want to invest some money, you want to invest your deposit in some bank that is not in Croatia but outside, that you have the certainty that this payment transaction will be executed, that payment transaction will be executed and number 2 will be cheap. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, this is important for cross-border transactions, that payments between countries, we ourselves know how much certain payment transactions cost when you pay the directors, when you pay certain costs, etc., so you can pick up these fees and various different fees almost 700 to 800, up to 1000 kuna a year. Now imagine when you make certain payment transactions from within the single European market, how much these certain costs can later come out of some normal frameworks. So the aim of the EU is because of the flow of normal, capital flow is that it has a secure system of payment transactions, means that those transactions, and especially those payment transactions, when they are executed, when one of the entities is insolvent because they are talking about the insolvency of certain business entities here, whether the one in which the payment transaction ratio can be executed, and ultimately it is very important, other than security, that we have lower fees and therefore we approach that market to have certain benefits of Croatian citizens from having lower fees, that we have safer payment systems, and ultimately, that those who perform these payment systems, primarily the CNB, here there were talks on the Croatian large payment system, then to the small payments system that.../incomprehensible/... that goes through the FINA, HANFA, etc., that they have undefined terms, rules and procedures. This is, in fact, the aim of legislation to become clear procedures and rules and to make it easier to trade on this European, European financial market. Therefore, the SDP Club accepts and supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7785	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge is a respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7786	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. I wouldn't be much longer since this picture is very clear, it's about the law on the finality of intent in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments. Generally, this is part of a large payment system that is functioning in the Republic of Croatia based on 4 large systems; Croatian large payment system, National clearing system, Target 2 and Euronational clearing system. As far as this contract is concerned, neither the member nor these two terms, the concepts that are harmonised at EU level, however, are supported, given that in the light of the movement of capital and people and in general the transaction at EU level, we support it. What I see as a trend now and it will actually come through discussions, there will be laws related to the financial system, in general monetary policy of the Republic of Croatia, which is somehow a sign of introduction in the Eurozone, which as the Mosta Club disagrees with. We do not agree, not that Club Mosta is not for the introduction of the euro, but what we have had to discuss and discuss, the question to the Prime Minister is that we believe that this is not yet a moment and that the Croatian economy is not ready to enter the euro. So, I'm just putting on, Mr. Lalovec has given us one context, I'd just like to expand the debate into another context, which is that all of these laws that are going to come to us, including this one is actually one systematic preparation for the Eurozone that we disagree with because we don't think we're going to be ready to meet the Maastricht criteria. We believe that, in terms of economy, we are not ready for labour productivity, cost of production and we have one great asymmetricity of the economy in the context of the Eurozone, and especially with Germany. As far as this law is concerned, we will consult further at our club Mosto, and that way we will come forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7787	We have an individual discussion, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7788	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. I am talking about the Law on Payments within the EU and, of course, that the harmonisation of laws and procedures that must be unique to the flow of capital, that it should be talked about, but here is a story to be opened, but also to point out what has been indicated for years is a very big influence by the Croatian National Bank, which has essentially worked against the interests of our citizens. We need to know in payment traffic a colleague Lalovec mentioned we have a number of fees, we have a number of fees, so for years people without their knowledge, without publication in the CNB citizens were annually there and not only citizens but also business entities about 400, 500 commissions and fees. This year, without interest from Croatian citizens' pockets, took about 4 billion kunas that were not taxed, so banks, without interest, are not talking about loans, interest, obligations that were much higher in Croatia than in other EU countries or in countries where sister banks are in the Republic of Croatia. 4 billion kuna per year fees and commissions, and for years the CNB did not want to publish, when we talk about payment traffic for years, the esteemed secretary of state, you know it well to please foreign banks. I know there are people in HS who will defend the banking system, who will defend it, but this is unfair and it was non-transparent. What's so untransparent about? Because banks made huge profits, and they didn't pay taxes, and believe me, it affected the Croatian economy. There's not a little 4 billion kuna on 500 commissions and interest-free fees. So interest is something else, we're talking about commissions and fees only. And only last year, only last year did it seem to me to be published, and for a long time this CNB, a long time where waiters are only wanted when a contest is being written. The State Audit had no right we have fought here in recent years that the State Audit, we have had great resistance, great resistance that the State Audit can carry out the business of the CNB as well as other institutions. But they're a separate institution, so look at the tenders that the waiters are asking about and cooking that can love wine with the downed fish, which the fish exactly prescribed how to mix, that's the CNB. It is important that Vujcic says we are entering the European zone, introducing the euro without public debate, without respecting the policy imposed probably by the Government of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, through his tradesmen in the EU, without debate. We did not have a debate on why the euro or why not, and ultimately should decide the Croatian people in the referendum, this is what we should talk about when we talk about payment traffic, which are effects on Croatian citizens or whether Croatian citizens are equal within the EU as for example. Citizens of Germany. And these policies, this money sucking in this bank case, that I'm not talking about teleopers because it's not a topic and other foreign investors are sucking out money and that capital is invested in other countries where banks are from, and our young people are going there. And now we have a school shut-down, we only have 30 schools shut down in the Imot area, 20th in the Cetina region because people are leaving because that capital is being sucked out. Why, now I'm asking the Secretary of State here, is the CNB acting like it's a Pharaoh's creation? They set their own wages, nothing the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, they're a separate institution. And when we pass laws, regulations then we have to make or when we prescribe certain directives then we have to talk about the scale of the problem, which brings it to the Croatian citizen, will there be less commissions and fees, will there continue to suck 4.5 billion kuna out of our pockets of the bank and invest that capital freely wherever it wants? Are we going to tax that profits so much from our banks? Of course we won't, of course that's not what we're talking about. Why? Is everything under the banking lobby? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7789	We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Here is what we have previously decided we will now hold a united debate on the following two points, and these are: - The final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement on Contribution between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Croatia concerning the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to COVID-19, second reading, P.Z. No. 30, - Final proposal of the Law confirming the first call guarantee agreement between the original guarantees and the access guarantees from time to time and the European Investment Bank, second reading, P.Z. No. 31. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. That Article of the Rules of Procedure provides that the law, which makes the law and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, is to be adopted by international contracts as a rule in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7792	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As regards both laws, the accession procedure of the Republic of Croatia to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund of the European Investment Bank will be completed in response to Covid-19. Otherwise, since 2001, the Republic of Croatia has been in co-operation with the European Investment Bank, and the shareholders of the European Investment Bank are EU Member States. The proportions of individual countries are determined according to their economic strength within the EU itself. In the Republic of Croatia, the competent institution for cooperation with the EIB is the Ministry of Finance. By EU accession of 1 July 2013 The Republic of Croatia has become a full member of the EIB with a billion-dollar share of 62 million 312 thousand and 542 euros, representing 0.43% of the EIB's total capital. This amount is clearly not all in the money paid but if there is a need this will be explained. In response to the Covid-19 crisis, the EIB launched a series of measures, one of which was the creation of a Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to Covid-19, and based on the conclusion of the European Council held on 26 March '20. calling for the EU's European response to the Covid-19 crisis and the Euro Group's report of 9 April 2020. Therefore, the EIB Board of Directors approved the establishment of a fund on 16 April this year. The Fund is part of a total package of measures of EUR 540 billion agreed at EU level to help businesses with the other 2 measures, which I will only briefly recall, means helping workers, etc. help the workers of the Schura programme and the countries of SMI this programme. Yes, as you know, but just to remind you, regarding the Schur programmes, the loan has already been granted to the Republic of Croatia in the amount of a billion and 20 million Euros or around 7.65 billion kuna, and will primarily serve to finance measures of part-time or similar measures aimed at retaining jobs and reducing the risk of unemployment and losing income. The participation in the Pan-European Guarantee Fund will enable the economy of the Republic of Croatia, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, to access the E group's additional capacities as part of the extraordinary financial assistance to the pandemic circumstances. Acceptable operations will be primarily through intermediation, intermediation of private sector operations, but may include direct and intermediated operations aimed at companies and public sector entities in the field of health and health research or the provision of key health crisis-related services. The indicative distribution of the fund's products is as follows: at least 65% will be used for small and medium-sized enterprises, up to 23% for medium-capital enterprises, up to 5% for public-sector enterprises in the field of health or research, and up to 7% are available for business lending. The EIB Group's instruments under the Fund will be guarantees, loans, equity investments, purchase of securities secured by assets, etc. Operations will be carried out in all Member States to the participants of the fund, and the EIB undertakes to act on the principle of balanced alllocation between the participating Member States. Significant benefits are expected for the Republic of Croatia, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are significantly affected by the crisis through the provision of the necessary liquidity for further business. A significant role in the implementation of the Fund's instruments will be played by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which has already started talks with the EIB on the development of potential products adapted to the Croatian economy. The target amount of the fund is EUR 25 billion and is formed through guarantees and through payments from EU Member States for the additional capacity of the EIB group. The participation of Member States in the fund is voluntary and the fund would act only in Member States participating as guarantees of the fund up to the maximum amount intended for its share in EIB capital. Currently, there are 21 Member States in the process as well as the Republic of Croatia. The estimated amount of additional mobilised investment through the fund is therefore EUR 200 billion, so 8 times more than the target amount of the fund, which is formed through guarantees and payments from participating Member States. Therefore, the Fund would strengthen the existing financial products of the EIB liquidity-enhancing group and short-term trade capital placed on end-users through existing channels of financial intermediaries are therefore credit institutions that already have established cooperation with the EIB and HBOR as a national development bank and HAMAG BICRO. The Fund becomes operational when Member States representing at least 60% of the EIB's capital sign legal documentation and subsequent treatment of the conditions of the equalisation mechanism is possible. The fund itself was designed as temporary, i.e. to have the approval of operations carried out until the end of '21. years with the possibility of an extension. With this in mind, the EIB's letter of 8 June called on the Republic of Croatia to sign an agreement on the contribution and guarantee agreement, meaning the laws act as a system of combined vessels, a contribution in terms of this 25 billion stake that the Republic of Croatia will make in accordance with its scale, and on the guarantee that tomorrow, for these possible discounts, they will be guaranteed. In accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the procedure has been initiated on 24 July and final versions have been established, and both agreements were signed in August of this year by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and representatives of the EIB. The agreements shall be subject, of course, to the confirmation of HS due to a potential financial obligation for the Republic of Croatia under the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. The EIB’s agreements as fund manager shall be concluded individually with each of the participating countries or guarantees. They are drawn closer to the way they call for a guarantee, demand events, fund management provisions, payment of commitments, etc. It is arranged and projected that the duration of payment of funds would be until the end of 2037. The guarantee obligations will apply to potential losses of EIB operations under the Fund, and all loans, market and other risks will be taken by funds and contributors, rather than by the EIB. It is also prescribed that the procedure for the settlement of financial obligations arising from the Republic of Croatia under the agreements and the competence to implement the agreement or to ratify the implementation of this law. The Republic of Croatia is bound by both agreements as a guarantee for the potential losses of EIB operations under the Fund, as well as for all credit, market and other risks to be taken by the Fund. The potential financial commitments for the Republic of Croatia shall result in a proportional share in the EIB's capital in the event of the activation of the guarantee under the provisions of the Agreement. Therefore, the proportional amount in the share of the Republic of Croatia in EIB capital of 0.43% of the maximum potential financial commitment is 106 million 745 thousand 508.42. The estimated net loss at the level of the fund is 20%, and it can be expected that, in this case, from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, during the duration of the fund, a calmed, subsistence amount of 21 million 349 000 EUR 101.67. In conclusion, this law confirms the Agreement on Contribution and the Guarantee Agreement in order to ensure that their provisions in the meaning of Article 1(1) of the Treaty are complied with. 141. The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7793	Thank you. Please wait for this few replicas. First respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7794	Good afternoon. Mr. Zrinasic, I am interested in the projection that the EUR 25 billion guarantee fund, that it will boost the meaning of the 200 billion-euro investment, is based on the same methodology on which the projection plan was based, Juncker's plan, where in fact, especially in the context of Croatia, we got almost nothing? So, now 25 billion are projected to boost an additional 200 billion, Juncker's plan was the answer to the previous crisis, and it was planned to launch over 300 billion investments, we almost didn't get anything out of Juncker's plan. Is that the same methodology, and if it is, why do we have the same projection?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7795	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7796	Thank you very much. So, thank you for asking. It's not about a mechanism like the EU funds definitely. And as I mentioned in the presentation, operations will be conducted in all Member States to the participants of the fund according to the principle of balanced alllocation in accordance with, therefore, the participation in capital or participation in this fund. Definitely what the Republic of Croatia expects is that the quality projects that will be framed in the processes that are intended, related to, related to Covid and these, these indicative distributions, as I mentioned earlier, will be withdrawn. It is currently being discussed at the level of Member States that are participants in the EIB's capital about details of how to implement it, but it is definitely not about a mechanism such as EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7797	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7798	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly. I've been listening to you for a minute less than your exposure, and I have to admit that one ordinary citizen watching this session is not clear. So, you've said it very nicely, so no one understands you. I'm going to ask you a simple question, how many new financial obligations are there for our country of Croatia? So how much money are we going to have to pay in the EU tomorrow? This is what is very important to me for people to hear how much we give an extra EU thanks to this legislation that we will vote on Friday. Come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7799	Answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7800	Thank you very much. As far as both agreements are concerned, I think I've been undermining it on several occasions. The State, according to its participation in capital of 0.43%, will either have to pay or give guarantees of the final if there is a protest of approved placements and let's say that the difolt is 100%, the RH will be maximum exposure of 106 million 745 thousand 508.42 EUR.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7801	Mr. Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7802	Thank you very much. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the MOST Club because it's one important topic because our mid- and small entrepreneurs expect 200 million kuna announcements, this 200 billion kuna, they expect a fund, and basically here they are, they won't know the criteria of whether one simply by what you said will be criteria as they have so far. There will be criteria for clubs in the Republic of Croatia, and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, if this happens, and Croatia has not shown much in the withdrawal of the European Funds and these loose stories we listen to. We are in the last place following the withdrawal of funds from the EU, in the 2014-2020 budget and projects to be completed in 2023. We are at the bottom after the withdrawal of the European funds. We pay Croatia more in the EU funds than it returns, so you can't solve one agglomeration in the Split swimming pool, you can't solve the agglomeration of my Cetin region, which would protect us, that we have a sewer in the 21st century and drain. Culturally, and now you're talking and announcing the billions we're looking forward to, mostly small and medium-sized entrepreneurs so they can survive. Neither clear criteria nor withdraw EU funds and we are on the tail, Croatia is on the tail of the EU. Since we joined the EU, of your praises, the only thing we have is a huge flow of money from our evicted people, 6% of GDP. Therefore, what are the criteria, this is a key question and whether this is another smoke curtain, mainly for the hope of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, is a key issue because we are at the bottom of the tail by withdrawing European funds. At the bottom of the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7803	Is there anyone else who wants to take a break? Grozdana, representative of Grozdana Perić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7804	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am looking for a break for the reason that we still need to determine all these advantages that EU membership brings and ultimately, it should be shown that, behold, HR has contracted over 102% of the funds so far and that more than 40% of the funds that have been so far have been nominated. Therefore, compared to what was found and what were the whereabouts, this is more than 400% compared to what was done in the previous government's mandate. Therefore, it is very important to take all these measures and precisely this model of funding where the EU has recognised and made it possible to help, both the economy, the population, the employees, and also to take care of the social component as evidenced by these contracts that Croatia will withdraw significant funds and precisely the advantage of our participation and participation in the European Investment Bank, to help maintain security and social security and jobs and employment. This is very important and in this way we believe that these models are very good quality and will actually help the Croatian economy to continue recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7805	Thank you. We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7806	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A colleague hurt her ankle. Rules of Procedure 238, she said that 100% is agreed, more than 100%, and that's the lie. That's the hoax. Only 10% has been withdrawn, and they always sign release contracts, we speak and the end of the financial period. These projects have to be completed soon, and that's it, tricking the people and throwing the fog in your eyes, don't cheat on the people. at least in the EU funds [[Intruder: Time.]] from the EU funds has withdrawn... [[Intruder: Time.]] At least. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Less than Romania, Malta and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7807	Since this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Next infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Zarko Tušek. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7808	Here's the Honorable Chairman. And I have to put it on, and I have to put my eyes on it. [[Intruder: Put on a mask please.]] My colleague Bulj was injured by an officer. 23, my colleague Bulj, as he does otherwise, has injured an officer. 238 Rules of Procedure, not on the subject, are not conspiracy theories, the topic is to secure liquidity for the Croatian economy, the Croatian economy, small and medium enterprises. Since I know more about this than my colleagues, I can only say that what he's saying is absolute delusions and that they have nothing to do with the real one, that they have nothing to do with the real needs of the Croatian economy and the Croatian economy. the preservation of liquidity [[Intruder: Time.]] is something that today is a strategic matter in the context of what is ahead of us, which is the withdrawal of EU funds. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you. Miro, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7809	Time. Agent Tušek, that's exactly why I gave Mr. Bulj's warning, and now I'm warning you because you were saying it too, no injured Rules of Procedure. Has anyone else come forward, the Honorable representative of Bartulic?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7810	Here's a thank you. On behalf of the Homeland Movement, we're also looking for a break. Since, as the secretary of state has mentioned, our support for this agreement is required, and we do not know exactly how much Croatia's exposure to future EIB operations is. A potential commitment is mentioned, we do not know in what direction this, this new fund will go, whether these loans will be successfully placed or not, the question is whether, if our financial commitments rise through this period, whether they will be discussed again in the Parliament or tomorrow, we simply trust the Government to take all these risks possible for the EIB's operations. So, there's a lot of other loose ends. I would like to know exactly what amount Croatia will pay, not possible or potential obligations. That's not what I would have said, seriously, and later on I'm going to explain the business of the EIB, it's not impeccable. We have quite a number of corruption affairs in them. The question is, what is Croatia doing on the plan to strengthen the bank's internal mechanisms to prevent corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7811	Okay, we've got a break. Let's move on, distinguished representative Katarina Peovic is also looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7812	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left block club. What we would like to discuss further is the real importance of this law that is trying to push itself without some broader democratic debate, and everything on behalf of some alleged consensus of society that everything that comes from Europe is good. I have not received a concrete answer to my question, Mr Zrinasic, unfortunately, because you have not responded to what is crucial in which the projections you are referring here as a projection of investments that will trigger those initial capital of 25 billion euros. The exact same system, the fact that we are in the European Investment Bank shares is not an answer to this question. The question of how some initial funds are meant to be projected in economic activity, taking into account what is crucial in this law, which is that no industrial policies will be invested, but only small and medium-sized entrepreneurship which, as we know, has no weight or ability to lead to economic development. It has a low added value, it has low wages, we'll only maintain with this our oscillating structure of the economy that you start from year to year and we have the lowest complex, so we're reducing the constant index of the complexity of production, which by shutting down shipbuilding, which by not investing in agriculture, etc. So we don't support and these funds aren't going to change that, no major economic entities that the small ones can relate to are just going to patch up existing small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who don't have the ability to maintain our production or run economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7813	Okay, I approve of the break. Is anyone else looking for a break? If not then I declare five minutes off by 10.26. MEETING AT 10:21 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:26 A.M.]] We're moving on with the replicas. The next replica is Honorable Representative Zarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7815	Thank you, Vice President. Here I once again wanted to highlight through my replica the value and importance of this agreement in the context of ensuring the real liquidity of our small, medium and micro entrepreneurship, and all in the context of this financial envelope and of the European Solidarity Fund, which will be a large part of its placements in that time ahead that is placed right in front of us towards the real sector. We are aware that our real sector has a problem at this point in liquidity, we are aware of the expansion in exports and in strengthening GDP over the past four years so that we can secure this dynamic in this covid crisis, we simply have to resort to such instruments where, by my personal assessment, the real risk of exposure to the Republic of Croatia is relatively small. When you look at one thing, the plasma negative HBOR placement in the past period was about 15% which is significantly lower than the maximum risk foreseen in this fund for the period up to 2038. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7816	You have the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7817	Thank you very much. If I can thank this supplement and clarification, or the link on the subject, since this is exclusively intended in the context of COVID-19, I told small and medium-sized enterprises, mid-cap firms. I would just remind myself that at EU level, these definitions range from 250 employees to small and medium-sized enterprises, of these medium-market capitalisation companies from 250 to 3000 employees, so they are not just companies that will not be able to do anything special. And in the context of Juncker and his 445m euros that Croatia received two months ago for infrastructure projects and large investments here I say again that it is going exclusively to this segment in the context of COVID.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7818	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7819	Thank you very much. This Guarantee Fund or agreement due to COVID-19 raises a number of questions about the use of funds from European funds and numerous promises made to Croatian citizens, as well as fraud and lies. For what? Is citizens, mostly small and medium-sized enterprises expect to be a criterion. Whether it will be a criterion of what was in Slovenia 9 or will be a criterion for allocations of funds to former ministers to open their OPG small companies so that they receive money. So there are countless questions that our citizens of entrepreneurs are looking for here, mostly middle and small answers, answers. Is this where stories always appear under these lights Brussels is transferred here as Croatia has huge money in these funds. And it's not true that 102 percent of the truth is that it's probably 300 percent as much as it's withdrawn, five times as much as it's agreed. And in the end we are, so Croatia is on the tail on European funds, and I am afraid that it will be there with a guarantee fund so far with the experience of the work of the Croatian administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7820	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7821	Thank you very much. I will only repeat that both agreements, or these laws, do not foresee the withdrawal of money in terms of how this is done by the Eu Funds mechanism. So it doesn't matter. It is a matter of guarantees in terms of money to be provided by the European Investment Bank. In the context of these Euro funds, I would only remind that Croatia has so far received and used nearly 575m euros in funds or 4.3 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7822	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's the secretary of state, just maybe your statement, says money will be distributed balanced allocation. Does that mean we get 0.43% of these 200 billion euros, does that mean? So does that mean that we will get multiples of what we pay, because we are paying 100 million euros. And if we're going to get 0.43% of 200 billion euros then we're going to get 860 million euros, so 860 we're going to get, and 100 we're going to pay. So please explain that to me if that's your word for this balanced allocation, does that mean? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7824	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7825	Thank you very much. Thank you, indeed, for the question and for your help that you have now presented in a way that is exactly what this fund intends to do. So, according to your participation in capital as a state, you participate in that same capital if you want to, if you don't want to, you don't have to. And what we are going to do today, unless as a state, we want to go with this option to secure 107m euros of potential risk, does not mean that we will have to pay everything but a guarantee, and to use it against that 25 billion or 200 tomorrow, means eight times more than, through applications to these funds, and located in terms of participation, because the European Investment Bank will have to make sure that each of these countries has its own needs in the context again I repeat COVID-19.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7826	Thank you. Further replica of the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7827	Here's the Honorable Vice President. So whoever read and looked at the table as much as and from what this Guarantee Fund is made up of then could see that, in fact, the Member States that are the largest distributors, which is the Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, then Italy, France contributes to this Guarantee Fund over 4,69 billion euros and here, in the context of this, all the other members are seen how much they contribute and how important it is that solidarity fund. Our amount is 0.43%, therefore 106 million euros, and that is the approach that we are actually allowing to significantly more or much more withdraw from what we guarantee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7828	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7829	Thank you very much. Thank you for this explanation and de facto if some major Member States do not apply to their holdings, clearly that the rest of the cake will be proportionally increased to, and to other participants who, in this case and the Republic of Croatia. And just for example, when we mentioned that the state, that the Republic of Croatia, this 0.43 participates in the capital of a billion and 62 million kuna, we had to sign this one up as regards the capital of EUR 79.49 million and into the reserves another 128.4. The rest is the capital on the call.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7830	Thank you. This is what we're done with. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? The Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget? No, no, no, no. Then I open the debate, the first to discuss is the distinguished representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7831	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, on behalf of the Homeland Movement, I will present our vision of this EIB Guarantee Fund Agreement. Therefore, the EIB is a financial institution that implements the European Commission's policy and is funded by all Member States. The agreement, the first problem we see, is that the agreement states that the maximum potential commitment of the Republic of Croatia is EUR 106 million. So tomorrow we should vote on a law where Croatia takes certain risks and obligations, and we do not know how much it will cost taxpayers, so the question arises whether it will be discussed again if, in the meantime, our commitments grow? As always, the basic question is whether all of this is in the interest of Croatian citizens or taxpayers? It is indisputable that the pamdenia Covid-19 has caused a unprecedented crisis and that politicians here and beyond Europe today want to mitigate the damage caused by the excessive measures imposed. It is no secret that our entrepreneurs are extremely unhappy with the current situation here in Croatia, and many say they will not recover from the measures our headquarters has imposed. For example, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, I am in contact with them and with the “Glass of Entrepreneurs” association, say they are waiting up to 5 months for a response from the HBOR in relation to the liquidity loan. Why? Why are you waiting? Are the people at the Ministry of Finance aware that these companies can't wait for months? Obviously, in the public sector, we have one reality, one rule, and another in private. We must also conclude that we do not have great confidence in institutions like the EIB, which unfortunately have quite a number of corruption affairs in their work. Citizens must know that corruption is not only a major problem in Croatia, but it exists at European level unfortunately. As in Croatia, those who are well networked with political structures or as in the case of German giant Wolkswagen can pay for an army of lobbyists, will benefit the most from such financial plans. Here, it should again be stressed that Croatia is committed as a guarantee for the potential losses of EIB operations under the Fund, as well as for all credit, market and other risks to be taken by this new fund. Cases like Janaf, Wind Power and others, we can read and inform each day, but corruption at European level is almost never heard. These institutions are far from us and the people who run them are completely unknown to the Croatian public, but they make decisions on our behalf and these decisions can cause more damage than good. Is the government, for example? fully satisfied with the internal mechanisms and regulations of this bank that serve to prevent corruption? Why, for example, does the European Court of Auditors not have the authority to operate the EIB? Does the government have a view of it? As non-transparent as our public finances may be, they are still subject to review every year. On the other hand, the EIB has a vast area of discretion and is de facto controlling itself. Resolutions by the European Parliament, parliaments condemning corruption cases, are welcome, but do not have any legal power. There is no law at European level that regulates the work of this institution. Why? Of the billions of EU funds available to Croatia, the big question is how much will eventually be absorbed and for which projects. We don't know that. However, it is certain that Croatia will have to pay for all these plans. In fact, we do not quite know the exact amount because this agreement is again talking about potential commitments that are not small. We can only guess, but the pressure on this bank will be huge to finance various projects, always so be especially by Italy, Spain and other hard-hit countries from Covid. Italy will surely request that the EU be redeemed after it failed to show solidarity at the beginning of the root crisis. Commission President von der Leyen even publicly apologized to the country. Who will eventually follow the outcome of all future decisions of this bank? How will we know how Croatian citizens will know if this fund has succeeded in fulfilling its purpose? Will the Ministry of Finance make a thorough analysis of that? If our obligations are increased, will this assembly decide again? I am saying this because experience shows that for Croatia all plans adopted in Brussels do not necessarily mean I repeat, they do not necessarily mean that our country will prosper. We have fewer, already less than 4 million inhabitants with a trend of further decline. Our famous stability has led us to train our own people to go to other European countries and so we can boast about the new diaspora. They rightly don't, these people don't want to be part of this clienteleist management model that doesn't change at all. Dear MPs and MPs of the Homeland Movement believe that such agreements should be given more attention because they expose us to large financial commitments over the longer term, and the mechanisms for controlling the spending of these funds are very weak. Corruption exists from the local level of the municipality and the city to Brussels and European institutions. The fact that an institution has a registered address in Luxembourg does not mean that it is immune to pressures and political corruption. On the contrary, the more distant they are from ordinary citizens, the more they are to attack to abuse their powers and experience countless times confirms it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7832	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7833	Here's my colleague Bartultz and I have immunity, so there's no need for disinfection. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues here in the Croatian Parliament, we have two flags, one of the flag of our country of Croatia, our beautiful tricolour, another flag of one association of EU states. On July 1, 2013, we became 28 members, but we are also a member of the NATO Pact, so why not stand there and flag the NATO Pact, why not? Why don't you stand by and flag the UN? Are we a full member of the UN? We did. Croatia is a member of a number of associations, however, only one flag with our national flag, the Croatian flag and that is the EU flag. And now someone will tell me here Zekanovic is against or Croatian sovereigns are against the EU, but we are against no one, but we are to review any relationship and the relationship of Croatia in the EU. Let's see what we from the EU have, what we get, what we lose. A few years ago I met with a lady from Bulgaria who was the European Commission's Commissioner for Croatia and then I asked her well, okay, the EU is here now we have some conventions of Istanbul like this, why did we even join the EU? And she tells me that we have entered the EU to save ourselves for centuries of the Soviet Russian boots. That was her answer. She never spoke of the EU as an economic community as once called it, but spoke exclusively as the political community of the states which Bulgaria, specifically its state, saved and saved from influence from the same Russian influence. So I answered her, respected Croatia has no problem, the Croatian Army, Croatian soldiers, Croatian heroes freed Croatia for centuries I hope from attacks from the east and we needed the EU in '91. years in every sense both economically and politically, but here is the EU. And today we're listening here's the law on the European Investment Bank and I really don't have the law on my desk, and no matter what we listen to closely in accordance with our capabilities, because there's a lot of law, there's a lot of work, and I've been listening to you as an average citizen, I'm not an economist, but here I'm trying to think I haven't been able to figure out what we're getting, what we're losing. You're, like, a foot of dictionary stuff that you really managed to camouflage. I don't blame you, I don't blame you for that, but all those proposings usually say it that way. What is crucial and the Croatian public must know that this means potential new commitments of € 106 million for the Croatian state, I will repeat € 106 million or almost €800 million in commitments for the Croatian state. As far as we're going to get, no one knows, the only thing we know is that we're gonna have to pay. I will remind here of another thing that is not said here in the assembly, here I would beg my colleagues all of the authorities and the opposition regardless of the ideological omens, if you are looking at the sympathies of Yugoslavia and Tito or you are as sovereign as I am, to stress that Croatia is already paying 650 million kuna a year more membership fees in the EU, 650 million kuna plus these 106 million Euros. It's a billion and a half kuna, about now I'm a little wrong, and nobody's talking about it. And do you know how much money we got from those famous funds of Andrej Plenkovic that he's been announcing since the 3rd month, zero kuna, no money yet, no money yet. Look, we need to review all relations, and I'm really going to put on paper so objectively, to sit down here with a colleague of the HDZ from the government, from the SDSS means their Serbian partner, so we from the opposition and those from the left and we from the right, let's sit down together and see how much money we give you, how much money you pay us, how much of your products we buy, and finally, how many years do we give you the workforce, how many Croats and Croats go to profit in Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium? And then when we draw the line, I will say with great certainty that this balance is very negative for us Croats. Let's see, let's objectively put it on paper. Well, my people in no commercial relationship, and we've entered this commercial, economic community, you won't stay if you lose. Let's talk about it, there's no sacred cow. We reported that flag and we said it was amen. Let's talk about EU benefits, let's do all that analysis, let's see what's wrong. Here I have to point out another very important thing that is not mentioned from this pay phone. Today, there are no more 28 EU members, Croatia was 28, today 27, Brexit happened. The United Kingdom has left the EU. Have we forgotten that? Did you know that, in this new, new situation, the Covid epidemic is best managed by the virus? There are many sick and dead exactly, but the economy is very good. You won't hear anything about it in the Croatian media. Why? I don't know. Maybe it's a coincidence, and maybe because it doesn't pay more billions and billions of kuna in the European budget, maybe that's the reason. Let's talk about it. The British, the English at one point decided and they made one move, so far it's good. Remember, in Britain, the economic disaster is the Plenkovics and HDZ media, and I'll even tell these SDPs that are, like, a similar story, they'd talk constantly about how Britain is falling apart, how there's hunger on the streets, how there's unrest, and there's no talking about it because there's no hunger because there's no hunger in Britain, no matter how big an epidemic of the coronary virus. And to bring a little closer to all those who watch this little bit how the EU works, or how these European funds work. After all, I have worked on European projects for a long time, and I have spent and designed a few or many of them I can even say. And then you happen to have a million-and-a-half-euro project, for example, a million-and-a-half-euro project and a million-and-a-half of that million-and-a-half of what you're doing, for example. The construction works are 7 million kuna, and that's exactly how much your co-financing is in the fund that you got and co-financing directly, and all the other money is that so-called. Visibility softness, workshop, education. In other words, if we wanted to do what we did, we could do it with our money, absolutely with our money because all the money, the extra one went, I'd say some crazy thing that really doesn't make sense to me, to glue European flags, to organize workshops where it's only important to take pictures and then to add that picture to some project documentation later. I would like to discuss this, to say, that we do not take any associations for granted and that finally, and the ministry gentlemen when they come here to defend these laws clearly highlight this figure which is very important and should be repeated, the new EUR 106 million of potential commitments for our country, the new EUR 106 million in this crisis when we do not have a lip. And the second fact that so far we have received almost nothing from Europe to help us. There is no European solidarity, you must know that. So there is no European solidarity and it has shown itself in the European crisis how it works, everyone looks at himself or himself. The Germans are watching the Germans, the Austrians are Austrians, and the Croats are not looking at anyone because the Croatian government is looking at Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7834	The next debate is the distinguished MPs Katarina Peovic on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7835	Good afternoon, everyone. I'm just going to replicate, not the Germans, the Croats, but the elites are watching the elite, and no one's watching the working class. This agreement is a response to Covid-19, meaning EU members through the EIB and the creation of a Pan-European Guarantee Fund. The target amount of the fund is EUR 25 billion and the estimated amount of additional mobilised investment through the Fund is EUR 200 billion. What the right is criticising is that it's a lot of money that Croatia needs to pay in the EU, in the EIB, it doesn't make any sense at all, it's just a little more than EUR 100 million, it's not big money, and it has to be paid by 2038, so we really have some benefit from it wouldn't be big money. But it is not true either what the promoter claims to be a development policy and that is the problem of colleagues and colleagues that this is not a development policy. So these money that we're going to get out, the money that's based on the whole, the optimism of the people who look at us and the people who have some hope is a really colorful lie, there's no development policy here. The Guarantee Fund is designed to further keep us in an unfavourable position and to provide no conditions for turning negative trends in the business structure and occipitability. But that is the basis for unequal development that they have ruled even when they sometimes know what it is, they agree. We have a practically bad state, now 25 billion, and an additional 200 billion is projected, and recently it has been projected on the previous one, on Juncker's plan that we will have in response to the previous crisis to launch over 300 billion investments, meaning a very similar story. Juncker's plan in the context of Croatia was a difficult debacle. Croatia received far less than projected funds. All went into the hands of the 15 richest EU countries, and 13 poor countries remained short-sleeved and this was also shown by the European, European Investment Bank analysis. In the Republic of Croatia, 77 projects with EUR 21 billion were initially envisaged, so it was realised that they did not meet the conditions for all to be cut into 25 projects with a value of EUR 9 billion until virtually none of them were realised. So the first problem is who and what will be financed by these funds, not the amount of funds, not what we will be paying, but what we are financing and what our development policies are. The agreement says that the aim of strengthening the private sector is, most of it, small and medium-sized enterprises, at least 60% of the funds, and in a smaller proportion of public sector and health enterprises, only up to 7% of the funds are intended for public health enterprises, and that means not investment for crafts. What is crucial in this law is to say that restrictions will be imposed to exclude strategic investment projects that can be interpreted as industrial policy, the end of the quote. So, exactly what we need is industrial policy, big business entities that are connected to small and medium and that have the ability to produce added, extra value, which have the ability to produce jobs, well-paid places, places where people will stay, don't move out and stay and work. So that's the problem with this supposed development policy, that she's just patching up existing holes, so something small might get small and medium entrepreneurs, but there's absolutely no development policy. So we are not investing in planned production that meets the needs of the social majority, nor in what would be able to produce a significant additional value that the service sector of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs on average is already in small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who generally do not have the power to be a driving force of the economy. So the fund refuses to finance exactly what we need. In order to produce long-term sustainability, it is necessary to protect its major economic sectors that have but.../incomprehensible/... and traditions such as shipbuilding, such as agriculture, to develop technologically and in those segments that have the opportunity to produce multiplier effects on domestic economy, which we need analyses that we talked about here the other day that we don't have. The existing structure, which we will support through these funds, only contributes to the growth of our economy. The proof is that we have one of the lowest salaries in the EU, even for example Slovenia has almost double minimum wage from us, there is no approaching the most developed nor their salaries as well as the purchasing power of the rich countries of the centre, so these social indicators are evidence that there is no convergence. We need exactly what is not currently competitive, but has long-term potential, which should be protected means either existing or developing so-called. Infant industry. Instead, we will finance what is in line with EU needs, in our case it is only what remains after foreign competition. Food is the best example, so that's what we need, we have potential in almost all food products and industries to produce twice as much as we did 30 years ago, but we're not going to get subsidies because we're not competitive, it's not worth it. But soon nothing will be useful to us, nothing will be competitive, everything will be cheaper to import without a strategy of analysis that is the economic branches that have the possibility of developing, opening new jobs, positive effects on the economy, raising the scale of meeting the basic needs and raising the standard of living. We will only adapt ourselves to European policies that will not go in the direction of developing a competitive domestic strong industry and the large businesses that are needed to reach them small. The power to make such changes towards the development of technology and production has only a state which is able to protect those branches that are of social interest. The problem is that our country has no policy but adaptation. This funding strategy is rational from the position of banks, but it is not from the position of society of current and future generations. The conditions and criteria of funding of the guarantee fund therefore exclude strategic sectors, large companies to which these industrial policies apply, as these sectors and their development are the condition of increasing complexity. And that's where I'm going to give a very specific example and an analysis that proves what I'm talking about, that's the index of the complexity of production. The best evidence that the current strategy of economic development to achieve positive effects is the decline of the index of the complexity of production of our national economy. The complexity of production is important because complex products mean higher added value, higher income and pay national economy a higher quality of jobs. Since the '90s, we have been constantly falling in that index and we stand worse than all transition countries, unlike neighbouring countries in Slovenia, Bulgaria, Romania, the Czech Republic, which have a growth trend. Since 1995, we have fallen from 27 to 30 places, and Slovenia has grown from 13 to 10 places. Last year, Croatia was among the countries with the highest drop in industrial production, of course, due to the virtually shutting down of a large part of shipbuilding, we do not encourage food production in which we have the capacity of neohaus experts in food production and natural predisposition. The decline in the complexity of production means bringing the economy down to service activities that do not have the ability to produce high additional value and result in an ossification of the economic structure. Further growth of the economic structure means that our workers will work even longer than the EU average for even less wages or salaries of less purchasing power with announcements of further flexibility as we have heard labour legislation to allow capitalists to squeeze even more domestic workers and blackmail them by firing what we have seen being prepared. If they can't squeeze a domestic worker, then there will be a foreign worker sitting back with the laws we had here the other day, and that's why it's going towards abolishing labour imports quotas means relatively lower wages, or a comparatively increasing wage deficit, more and more work, simpler jobs and worse jobs. I will still talk about this in an individual debate about the amount that is quite insufficient for any development policy, but it is crucial that we understand that this is not about some high funds like the right hand that we will be returning for years, although we will not, but it is not about development policy because we are going round here, so we are only supporting smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are not going to benefit too much from this anyway, and we are not supporting industrial policies, we are not protecting our industrial sector that would really be able to provide a single economic recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7836	We have one announcement from the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7837	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I am looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for ten minutes for further consultations on this law. I must stress here that it is not clear to me that some colleagues who formally advocate labour rights, even socialism, can at all say that 106 million euros or almost 800 million kuna is not much money, and we have no guarantee from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that this money will return. In fact, I understand because this is not about labour rights because neither is it about elites, because a colleague from the Workers' Front also belongs to the elite, the political elite, as well as when we talk about wages and it belongs to the elite because it has a salary of 15,000 kuna as well as other MPs in HS. This is about the fact that the left today in Croatia belongs as well as the HDZ party to the parties who support globalism. By contrast, Croatian sovereigns, what the term says about sovereignty, are uncompromising and through sovereign Croatia, through monetary sovereignty, through energy sovereignty and through any other sovereignty, I think that better living conditions can be achieved in Croatia. And with the left, we will always have a standard desire that will be directed towards some global processes, according to globalisation, according to everything that affects the sovereignty of the state, the left has always been prone to look with sympathy for Yugoslavia, and now there is a new Yugoslavia, and that is clear to me that the EU and the SDP front of the left Green Blocks and HDZ will not in this sense have any critical views or thinking in the sense of the EU. But that is why Croatian sovereigns are there to suggest, to speak and to review both Croatian and Croatian EU membership, why not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7839	Well, I'd like a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7840	And you asked, you already got a break on this wheel, you can't take a break. I declare a break from ten minutes to 10.15. I apologize until 11:15. MEETING AT 11:05 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7841	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, says counterpart Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today, two laws are before us, i.e. confirming the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank and actually providing guarantees for the Guarantee Fund. I'll try a kind of simple introduction, what's this about. When the crisis with Covid started at 3:00 a.m. e.g. the EU Commission, or the EU, faced the challenge of addressing the problem of the economic problem and the economic crisis, the economic recession ahead of it. The EU Commission, or the EU, has actually tried to react through its various instruments and then mentions some amount of 540 billion euros of money to be given in the fight against Covid. How has this 540 billion euros been allocated? 540 billion euros have been allocated to provide 240 billion euros in the European Stabilisation Mechanism, i.e. State aid, to help countries fight Covida-19, and most of all, that is to help health care. However, Croatia, since it is not a member of the Eurozone, cannot use that money, it is the money that is exclusively the members of the Eurozone, the European Stabilisation Mechanism. We are also talking about why it is important to be a member of the euro. So we can't approach that right now. Another 200 billion euros is given through this guarantee fund and the 100 billion euros that we have said goes through the SURE programme to help workers. So the EU's commission reacted spotlessly and secured 540 billion euros where it goes to help countries, citizens and businesses. We are only talking here today about one package of these measures and assistance, and that is the European Guarantee Fund. We are talking about these 200 billion euros and why we and how we approach it. The EU said there was a liquidity crisis because it came very quickly, this crisis came and what happened? Banks stopped funding companies, and this is also seen in Croatia, simply because of their placements, they were afraid that they would actually get even more into these negative placements. The population was a problem of employment and it is actually very clearly responsible that we have already received Croatia, i.e. it will be allocated out of these 100 billion euros for the SURE programme 1.2 billion euros, that is to help citizens. That's not what we're talking about here. So it's not about helping citizens or helping the state, which we said we can't access there yet because we're not a member of the euro, it's about us telling us whether we want to be there or not, it's here for discussion. How these 200 billion euros work, but exclusively liquid, help businesses. This is not a development programme, this is not an investment programme, because the EU said we have 2 elements, we have a liquidity programme and we have long-term recovery programmes. These programmes only talk today about liquidity programmes, and development programmes will be financed through a multi-annual financial framework or through the EU budget, what Prime Minister Plenkovic said we will get those 22 billion euros, that is what we will gain for development. This is exclusively what we get for liquidity, how does it work? Croatia is a member of the EIB, my people, it is a Croatian bank, it is a Croatian bank, just as HBOR is 100% owned by Croatia, the Croatian bank in the EIB has shares, has shares, 0.43% as it has, according to our strength, and we can participate in board members and set up certain communications with them and through actually certain ways to communicate and try to work out the best possible conditions for Croatia. But it is as soon as you are a member of it, it is part of Croatia whether Croatia is a member of it and it is part of the Croatian and bank. They said, you pay 25 billion euros, it will come to Croatia, which is where around 107 million euros were calculated, or about 800 million kuna. It will be approved in the state budget, which we will pay or through guarantees through, to the EIB. They will create 200 billion euros on these 25 billion kunas together through business banks to help small and medium-sized enterprises, but only for liquidity, for trade funds, and then the question is, and that is what we are going to have to discuss here and that I was asking the question, if we are participating with 0.43% in the share of the EIB and here we are going to pay 107 million euros, if we are going to make in these 200 billion euros through the fund, get our small and medium-sized enterprises, or 860 million euros, or 6.4 billion kuna. And if that is the answer that, that we will get 6.4 billion kuna over a certain period of time when the payment is complete, when the fund is ultimately effective, then it is a contribution to Croatian entrepreneurship. Then it's a contribution, if the answer is yes. Now, here we come to another element. So that money we're going to get there, why is it going through the European Guarantee Fund? Because banks have stopped funding entrepreneurship because the European Commission cannot order banks to finance entrepreneurship because the Croatian Government cannot order business banks to finance entrepreneurship, give them liquidity, it cannot because they are private banks. It can make it easier for them accountingly not to lead to loss and that's what we said, I can pump money, 750 billion euros has the European Central Bank been pushing out extra money, the CNB has been pushing more than 50 billion out of money. But he can't give it, he gives it to the banks, the banks don't give it to the company, that's the problem. And why did the European Commission take over this programme through the EIB, to push that money to the banks and say ok, don't use that money, use this money, but you have to give it to businesses because you're saving them from liquidity. As a result, the European Central Bank, through the EIB, formed this model, in order to get that money to the entrepreneurs, in order to save themselves in the crown crisis, in COVID, in order to save its liquidity. Now in this work, when we communicate so much, that it is money towards Croatian entrepreneurship, small and medium entrepreneurship, as we said, we even went well here because we used it, they used the definition of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship to 250 employees. So you know how many companies there are in Croatia up to 250 employees? I think 90% is in Croatia. It means how many employees there are. And then there is, so that's 65% of that money. Another 28% of the money will benefit larger companies. So this is money, and now we come to the instruments that this money will come to Croatian companies. That's what we've been looking for all along. We can't force the banks. Now they say they will lower that money towards national development agencies or HBOR, one part of the new one goes to HBOR and the other money goes to HAMAG Bicra or other institutions, and the third part goes to Croatian business banks that will run separate lines and say that the money they receive from the EIB will say to the liquidity companies, give the small craftsman, give that trader, give the catererer to save himself at a time of crisis and that it is money, cheap money created together by all EU instruments, and that is that contribution from the EU and the Croatian economy. And then that's a contribution to the Croatian economy. Now, there will be the biggest problem whether and in what way will the Croatian government control banks or continue to press through all the instruments of the EIB to get that money to the Croatian entrepreneur, to come up with that money and then say if you lose that money and lose, and lose, the business banks fail to charge that part of the money, from these Croatian entrepreneurs, it will cost the Croatian budget 20 million euros or somewhere around 160 million kuna by 2038. So now the state has given, now the state has given 6.5 billion kuna to Croatian entrepreneurs and doesn't ask for money back, right? That's what we're talking about, here we're talking about 160 million kunas. So here it's important to say which way that money, Here's just one more sentence, it comes to Croatian entrepreneurs, and in this context, the SDP club will support this law. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7843	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Marijana Puljak will now speak in front of the IP, Smart and Glass Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7844	I thank the chairman. Here's my dear colleague and colleague, Mr. Lalovec here in his presentation has actually made all the arguments and a very simple language, and I think our citizens quite understand what this fund is about, which is, what it is, why it's established, for which purpose, and right at the beginning, to say exactly why our club will also support these two bill proposals. So, just to say the specific information Mr. Lalovac was talking about here, this is therefore assistance to Croatian entrepreneurs, in Croatia 99.97% of companies are small and medium-sized enterprises with 70% employees. So this fund, the funds from that fund, so its intention is primarily to help small and medium-sized enterprises, 65% of the funding goes in this direction but goes to companies and public sector entities in the field of health. So this is not a development programme as colleagues have previously asked for help from entrepreneurs, their liquidity and their finances to solve this crisis. So the minister is in the media, there was a question here how much contribution, how accurate the contributions of Croatia or documents show that there will be around 107m euros by 2038, and according to our share, the potential amount for Croatian companies is expected to be around 800m euros. Whether this money will reach entrepreneurs, there are risks and here it is said that the estimated net loss at the fund level is about 20%, so it can be expected that some 20m euros from the state budget during the duration of this fund, so by 2038, the Republic of Croatia will cover this potential loss of up to 20m euros from the state budget. So I won't owe too much, as far as we're concerned, the Croatian economy, as I said, lies on small and medium-sized enterprises, should help them in this crisis and this fund is one good way to do it. It remains of course for us to actually get that money to the entrepreneurs, the fact is, here they mentioned various other funds, the percentage of the use of these funds is about 30 percent, but I'm saying this fund is one other tool, another instrument that I support here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7845	Thank you, too. Mrs Grozdana Peric will now speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7846	Good afternoon. Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here are the two laws that would actually confirm the Agreement on the contribution between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Croatia relating to the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to the COVID-19 and the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the First Call Guarantee Agreement. As previous colleagues have said, we are aware of the situation and the times in which we live and, in fact, the huge economic and social damage that has been caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus and what has been done at national level, either at European level in the launch of recovery and protection and job creation. And as you know, the European Commission has proposed a major recovery plan for Europe on 26 May 2020, which is based on the use of all possibilities of the EU budget. We are witnessing that just at the time when Croatia chaired the EU Council, certain important decisions and projections were formed and taken in order to help the European economy as well as the EU budget, which is now 1,000 and 100 billion euros and the recovery instrument, i.e. the Next Generation instrument of 750 billion euros. What now, and within all the instruments envisaged, obliges us to protect lives from the beginning of this pandemic, but also to protect the resources of the means of life. This has led the EU to make maximum use of the flexibility of the budgetary rules and the rule of state aid and thus to form a special package which, in this way of EUR 540 billion, confirmed by the European Council on 23 April and thus helped to transfer this targeted support through, as mentioned before, 100 billion of the SURE programme, 200 billion of the Guarantee Fund and 240 billion of the European Stabilisation Fund, to which we cannot join as such. However, in response to the covid crisis, we as a member of the EU approach this way to the European Investment Bank, or we are members of the European Investment Bank as a percentage of 0.43% and our contribution is exactly what over 106m euros have been said before. In this way, the package that we access the target amount of the Guarantee Fund is 25 billion euros and is formed through the guarantees and payments of EU Member States and thus enables additional capacity of the EIB Group to respond to the crisis. What is important to say is that we are in relation to other participants or members with a amount of 101.7m euros while other distributors are large, such as the Republic of Germany, the Republic of France, Italy over 4.7 billion euros, and you have a review of the individual amounts in the table given under this law. What's going on with this? So the estimated amount of additional mobilised investment is that 200 billion euros, and our share in this should be in our share of the EIB's total capital. This would strengthen existing financial products to strengthen liquidity and short-term trade capital placed on end-users, which are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, and then market capitalisation companies and public-sector enterprises in the healthcare sector, as the programme is listed in the name itself, in response to COVID-19. How are these funds going to be placed? It will be placed through existing financial intermediaries, with us through HAMAG BRICRO, through HBOR and financial institutions or banks. When does this fund become operational? It becomes operational at the time when at least 60% of the EIB's capital as a Member State signs legal documentation and thus subsequent access to the conditions of the equating mechanism is possible. The Republic of Croatia has also committed itself as a guarantee of potential losses under the Fund as well as any market and other risks it would take from the Fund. Operations will be carried out in all Member States according to the principle of balanced allocation between participating Member States and this indicative distribution of the fund is the following, as 65% of the funds would go to small and medium-sized enterprises, 23% for medium-capital and large, up to 5% for public-sector enterprises in the health sector and up to 7% for business lending. So, if you look at the total, all those supplements that are given in the annex, e.g. Appendix A, where the EIB product has one of the risk-sharing instruments, then you can see who the contracting parties are and who they are, and we have additions A, B, C, D and E, where exactly what acceptable transactions are in this case, and among other end-users here, in the case of A, the allowance includes fixed loans for investments, revolving instruments, trade capital, liquidity lines and short-term loans, or including supply chains. When you look at what is very important, that, what is the risk rate, how much is the guarantee rate that certain companies do not need to give additional collaterals, that is, what is very important is that the end-users affected by the pandemic will be able to obtain trade capital, capital and investment loans with these reduced collateral requirements and thus allow small and medium-sized enterprises up to 249 employees or those medium-capitalised up to 500 or up to 3000 can now get liquid assets. This is what is very important in these moments, and so it can be looked at for each of these products when it is read that in this way we want to take advantage of all the opportunities that here's membership offers and enables us to make business easier, as well as when we have to point out that, that the state, that the government has certainly intervened with 6.3 billion kuna so far, as well as the write-off of commitments. Of over a billion and 800 million kuna [[Intruder: Thank you]] The club will support the proposal. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7847	Thank you. Mr. Miro Bulj will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7848	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens watching this. We see that here all day we are discussing the EU guarantee fund due to Covid-19 and I am obliged to ask those questions that citizens ask daily. Since we mention the funds guaranteed, the EU funds, the numerous funds that we mention, more and more in Croatia, we have a sign from abroad from evicted Croats, 6% of GDP is that it's registered in Croatia, not the National Bank, it's hard to say to the people's bank which is the Pharaoh institution above and the president and the government, then we have to say that our economies are mostly medium and few economies, people who, entrepreneurs expect help from this fund, personally everyone would like it to be so, but we have to see where we are. Someone will say European funds, cohesion funds before, now European funds and this has nothing to do with it. On the contrary, I think our system in the EU. The EU system, and our administration, our policies have targeted not only the EU but also Europe, Croatia. Stories on the agreed projects with the EU on 102, '3%, the question of how far it has been achieved, we are at the end of the budget period and therefore this corona crisis has exposed all the bad policies. And talk about this fund, mention 200 billion kunas, and then not go back to corruption in our system in the way the allocation criteria work, and how does all this work together, is today we can look at any segment, we can agriculture, we often talk about it, which is why we're not self-sufficient? Because of what money we give through support we don't give to our peasant who deals, who has an O.P.G., who works in production, we never gave support again, and we never produced less. So here are the basic criteria and the key question that middle and small entrepreneurs expect from us, what will be the criteria of the assignment? Dal will be as former Minister Tolusic has gone and his project now through a certain OPG... Use? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's legal, illegal, I have no idea, it's probably all legal in us, we have legal and concessions. The concessionaire is not responsible for anything, the state responds to the i.e. The people are responding. And profit always goes to concessionaries. So in this case. So here we are discussing the huge money of the alleged "still" because we are not an EU factor, what the prime minister wants to indicate is how much we have economic growth before the COVID crisis, now COVID is guilty of everything, now COVID is guilty, COVID is guilty of what agglomeration in the Chetino area has stopped. The agglomeration project, the wrong assessment of the project, in some cities will give theirs to the government, in some they will not assess it. Public procurement bounced from an estimated bounce and gave some and some did not. Well, come on, I'll talk about my end now. They are talking about a balancing fund, Minister Pavic came before the elections, released projects of 2 billion euros from the EU funds for the Split-Dalmatia County, as soon as they started. So come on, it's going to be a cetinal end, enough of this 100 million kuna, let's finish this agglomeration project. so it can start to build. He won't. Why? Because there are plenty of promises in us and now that hospitality has fallen, when tourism has fallen, when everything is unsustainable, when I see that they are announcing that alcohol will be banned except in the club, at the club who is there with Stipe Mesic, Oleg Butkovic, the great man of projects, he is always talking about projects, I don't know where he owns these projects and there's nothing on the ground, and mainly our minister, Coric, endangers the environment and threatens the economy. This is what they're going to charge for. That story this bank, that bank, you know what I'm afraid of? I'm afraid as long as we're discussing this and until this all comes true, you won't have anyone to distribute the money because Croatia has moved out. In my neighborhood, here's in the iotic area, over 40 schools in the last 30 years closed down, they're falling apart, they're gone, they're wiped out the hearth. We won't have the workforce, we'll have to... Now that you've driven 2/3 of the Croats to other countries, emptyed the territory, nobody's done it, not one occupier, and ever since we entered the EU, against all the stars when you were raising flags, Sanader, Kosor, who was then, I can't remember, stars at the end of an empty Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to react immediately, promptly, is now a caterer, now a tourist worker is at risk, now the one who was supposed to be working seasonally and is not a seasonal radio, now a farmer is at risk if he's not competitive on the market, but we pay for him per litre of milk support, let's give him support if he needs 5 kn per litre of milk to be more competitive than someone from Austria, let's give the law that 70% of our products must be in trade chains, on the localities of di-products and our domestic products, give something. Don't throw fog in the eyes of the people, always the same fog. Once we enter the EU, remember the story, everything will bloom, and if we don't, we're done. We've come in, gentlemen, you see what a demographic picture has been since we entered, whether we've been ready to join the EU, or if we've gone into service, half-tronically, we've allowed certain institutions, that's the problem, that in our country, we've allowed the CNB to be an institution over, that it's hidden from the people that we have 400, I said it in the first speech, 400 commissions and fees, 4 billion kunas don't suck out of the pockets of our entrepreneurs, citizens, and it's not taxed, it's not, it's our money, not only that we pay EU membership fees, and they don't do it in their own countries, they don't do it in their own countries. They sucked our blood on the dropper to the kuna. And that's allowed. And these are the problems of financial institutions. And not to let the CNB deal with who better to please which waiter, cook, excuse me, knock-off fish with quality wines. It's their competition, no one controls them, no one audits their business. No one. There's the problem. Do we have the Pharaohs within our system and, of course, the entrepreneur is afraid in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the investor who wants to invest in the Republic of Croatia does not have the confidence to invest in something that is corrupt, something that is decided in clubs that are in Slovenia 9. So half the ministers played cards. Played cards and it's not that card counter, he's a money counter. Where's the money and what'd you get? Here's the debate, I see it's all moved on to the President of the Republic, and it's a good trick to forget the government of Plenkovic, not to mention anyone. This is done in a maestro and no one mentions the ministers. Everything has moved to the President of the Republic, and where are the ministers? So they didn't count the budget there on that dial, do they, but ultimately, where's the money that's shared there? That's the question, where are the money that's transferred to clubs? For public procurement and for jobs. It destroyed Croatian entrepreneurs, because you had to buy a job, and the one that's more competitive, if you don't have a party card, in this case even a party card, if he couldn't get into a particular club, he couldn't get a job no matter how much more quality he was, maybe even cheaper, maybe better he did better references, these are the problems in the economy and not these fogs that we throw. I wish we could get this money in the morning, but it's gonna cost us, we're gonna get it back, they're not gonna give us this for nothing. So we have in society right now, we must speak as a Croatian Parliament, as an institution that should decide not at the Kovacevic Club. Who's gonna paint the pipes in Yanaf, the pipelines? That's how HNS worked, that's how the government worked, gentlemen, that's how you worked. That's how you worked. And it did not die for this country to function that way and to pursue Croatian interests. Both in principle interests, such responsibilities, both in morals, but There's no such thing. [[Intruder: Time.]] And that's the problem, these fogs are a lot more. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7849	We're moving on to individual debates. It's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7850	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. When we stop for this pay phone, we have a chance to talk about different topics. We even have opportunities, regardless of the agenda, to speak beyond that and much wider. We can also use this pay phone to talk about the green plan, to talk about that the National Competitiveness Council today has informed us that Croatia in Europe is the last for digital competitiveness, but I think we all have to ask ourselves a question together we are, what we are and where we are going. Croatia, like the whole of Europe and the world, are within one great monster, Covid-19, which has shown our fear of what it is, has shown fear and not only of the Croatian countries, but also of Europe and the world. As long as I speak for this speaker, I will advocate that Croatia, that it is good that Croatia has entered the EU, that it is good that it is in this society, that it is good that there is a chance and that this opportunity should continue to be used. There's this cute little story that talks about it, says you did win the lottery, says I didn't, so you did buy the lucky one, so I didn't. Well, that's the same for you. That if you don't invest as a country in the European Investment Bank, you can't expect anything. What situation do we have today? There's no one who's been sitting in this assembly before, and who would be sitting here today, who wouldn't raise his hand to help the economy, the grants from our budget, and that's what we've done. Because if there's no economy, no development, no future. The Croatian economy and the future of Croatia, as all indicators show, are based on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and it is logical that this is, that we are helping and now we have a law that says that Croatia will invest 206 million in the EIB which is our own, investment bank where we are with 0.48% participating and that we have the possibility to ensure our entrepreneurs that liquidity, for what reason? Banks are private, banks, first and foremost protect their interest. The EU as well as we and the Croatian state, there is no difference, it has proved that we do not have the opportunity and we do not have the instruments to tell banks to help, take care and therefore there is this agreement among other things. This is one way to help, just to survive under these conditions. Does it matter how long this crown problem, or Covid, can last? You remember the spring when they told us, now it's gonna be okay, so it's gonna be summer, so it's gonna go down together because they're high temperatures, so in the fall there's gonna be something else. So we live in the world, we live where we have something unknown in front of us, but we have the opportunity to help. This is just to help our venturers with the liquidity. We're not talking about development here, we're not talking about the green development that we're talking about and the green plan, here we're talking about the liquidity of our entrepreneurs. If they are not there, every job that is lifted, every entrepreneur who closes their doors will have difficulty opening them before, will look for a future somewhere else, and it is our responsibility to talk about it and create preconditions for it. Don't just talk about who's last to turn off the light. When the light goes out, there won't be room for anyone else. So this is about recovery, it's about liquidity. Of course, we need to ask ourselves here, and logically, we have to ask ourselves what kind of Croatia we see in 2030, 2030, is there tomorrow. And what are we going to do about it? What are we gonna do? Not to say that the development programs would be at 2050, but that's what we need to worry about today. It'll be late at some point. We clearly need to say, this crown has shown the weakness of the world, the weakness of Europe, the weakness of us. This is one way of helping, if so. A little help, as far as we're concerned, is welcome. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7851	Stay, stay, stay. Mr. Hajdukovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7852	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mrak-Taritash, I think you've made a very good comparison because we can't expect help from the European Development Bank if we don't want to participate in the fund itself and I think you just pointed out what I'm going to talk about, which I'm going to talk about in my individual debate, which is liquidity. I often say that small and medium entrepreneurship is actually the backbone of the Croatian economy. If we don't help them, if we don't help them get through this very uncertain period, which we can expect in the end, or if we don't help them, we'll certainly lose a lot of jobs, we'll lose a lot of companies, and whatever the outcome of the Covid crisis is, we won't, we won't be okay as Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7853	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7854	Thank you very much. Exactly. Shutting down every place, closing every door when you cross the city of Zagreb, then looking at little business spaces that are in excellent places and when it says closed because of the redecoration. There's nothing wrong with that redecoration. You see for yourself that nothing will happen further. And it is a responsibility to all of us who can speak, who can point out and who can help. Our job, among other things, is to make sure that every job stays. And here I'm going to do it again, there's no one who wouldn't raise his hand and who wouldn't say okay from the budget will help, let's help and need help. So the debate is that we're going to invest 106 million euros by 2038, but we have the possibility of some help, we have the possibility of saving someone because I have to admit A little surprising. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7855	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn, he's gone, he's losing his right. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7856	I'm going to use this individual debate to respond to a series of attacks, so what I said on behalf of the club. So I'm going to answer the right hand that says, so it's not a little money, so you're not real, so that's an amount of EUR 100 million, a little more than EUR 100 million, you should simply warn them about the fact thing, the maximum amount Croatia should possibly pay is over EUR 100 million, but it's projected means that it's going to be around EUR 20 million, so we're not always talking about, like, some total amount. What's our real problem is not, and that right shows that there's no compass at all, it's not the amount we have to pay but the purpose, so that's where I'm going to answer then to this nominal left because it says that the purpose is simply what it is and that there's nothing you can do about it. So our problem has eroded the economic structure and the unfavourable economic structure, the low complexity of products, the low added value, the low wages, that longer the EU average is on simple jobs, that we have poor job quality, insecure jobs, and we would like to say that these nominally left and right jobs are even more insecure. At the same time, we have not heard them speak against the amendments to the Labour Code, we have not heard them object to tax reforms that are suitable for the rich, nor are they advocating for the minimumer, the only thing they want is good for the workers of the unemployed Sunday, but they already have a plan of what workers should do that day, to pray in churches with their heterosexual families. The SDP and the left liberals may understand what this is about, but they don't think it's necessary to change things, they think that's why they support this law. The truth is what Lalovac warns that these are liquidity funds and that they are crafts, but it is crucial that the criterion is that guarantees will be given to those companies that have a long-term positive outlook for growth and business success. What does that really mean? This means that virtual companies will be financed in the existing unfavourable structure, so we can say that they will support and encourage companies in tourism even though in the Covid-19 crisis we see that tourism cannot be a fundamental activity and that we cannot rely on tourism. We'll get incentives here for that business branch we should radically cut. So maybe it's the bookies and they're doing a positive job, right? What we should, therefore, invest in those companies, in those sectors that have the opportunity to create high added value, create jobs, good jobs, well paid. That is, I think the the thesis that the EIB is a Croatian bank, as Lalovac says, so it would not exactly be the EIB and the Croatian Bank in whose capital we participate with 0.43% and we have an impact on its investment policy exactly according to that share. I don't quite see that that bank is financing Croatian development and changing the unfavourable economic structure, which is also logical because it has large members in it and therefore makes sure that the credit policy of that bank does not endanger the domination of their corporations on the common market. Also, this fund says Lalovac is here because no one can order banks to finance entrepreneurs because they are private banks. Well, of course, the SDP can't go beyond private ownership or think about it, right, and development can't rely on economic banks, and it is, private banks, and that's the problem. The interest of banks is not the same as that of the social majority. The problem is that private banks do not finance those sectors and the production that would be in the social interest and in the interests of the labour majority. And it is not true that through this fund there is no aid to the state, explicitly listed the health sector although we can say it is the point, the point is to guarantee this to finance craft and liquidity for existing medium and small enterprises that show that long-term positive growth prospects. This means in the translation of cementing the existing unfavourable structure because up to the crisis, so what was cost-effective, deals primarily with renting, tourism or trade, and then the crisis has shown and will only show how harmful it is. So Covid showed how unfavourable such an economic structure is, and here we see SDP and HDZ agree that it's quite right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7857	Stay here, there are, we have three replicas, she's the first one. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7858	Thank you, Vice President. Representative Peović, as usual you have presented a series of lies, it is classic now already for your presentations. And I don't know that ideological division of yours that's extremely archaic on the left and right, why do you always potentiate it? I'm not a lawyer or a left, or a right, but how do you know the attitudes of that so-called. Right to be about the Labour Act when only the other day a professional group was founded and the Labour Act did not come to us at all on the constituency benches. And as far as I'm aware, many parties, including the Homeland Movement, have advocated raising minimum wages to £5,000, so stop making lies in your exhibits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7859	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7860	Well, I guess outside of the assembly bench he's talking about some Labour Act, I've never heard of it before, it's really one topic that you're least interested in on that right, you're interested in abortions, you're interested in religious content in schools, you're interested in anything, but I haven't really heard that you're interested in the Labour Act. And as for the minimum wage of 5,000 kuna, I think that you will very well agree with the rulings in that it would be a minimum wage because you have absolutely no reference to why you have now raised these 5,000 kunas, and in any way the minimum costs of a four-member family in Croatia that far exceed the 5,000 kunas you have now thrown before us, but for that, there is still something to be informed about these minimum cost of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7861	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7862	I would just like to draw attention to the fact that actually funds in funds are actually a response to negative movements by banks and to a negative reaction by banks that simply won't allow their assets to be placed in companies that may have a perspective, but at this point they're not doing well. The funds allow us to help such companies. I agree with you definitely not at this point the companies and this craftsmen who operate in tourism are not doing well, we need to make sure that the funds are placed that have their perspective, where a new job can be opened, that have the opportunity to make new profits and employ new workers. However, what is crucial and what we need to pay particular attention to are criteria, criteria for how we will allocate these funds because we have witnessed through history that resources, incentives, have been allocated in various ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7863	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7864	Well, yes, I agree, and in this entirely unfavourable agreement, there is certainly something better or worse to get out, but we need to start warning, and here I think that the SDP is really losing all possible games to an absolutely unfavourable structure, an ossuary economy that is the consequence of our position in the EU and the result of the funding that is limited. We are now talking about funding specifically related to this fund means European Investment Banks, but you have contracts with the EU, an EU functioning contract Article 107 which is always stated when we talk about state aid, structural aid to a state that should be able to protect its strategic industry, then it is said that it is interference in the competition. The free market generally corresponds to those already in a position of power, not to those who should develop their oscillating economic structure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7865	And finally, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7866	Thank you. My colleague Peovic, I think you've elaborated this topic very well. I would not enter these ideological divisions of the left, the right, because they are so little sometimes even nakaradic in Croatia, but in my view these funds will be, their cost will be justified if we will have a better standard in the country of the population, if workers have better conditions and better incomes, if the decline of the number of craftsmen, i.e. to reverse the trend and if part of these funds which, according to this plan, are too little to invest in food production and processing. This is what proved to be very important in this crisis, at the very beginning, which is important to be self-sufficient in the production of food and energy, and neither of us are. We sold one, and we destroyed the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7867	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7868	Yes, only what is specifically said in this Treaty is that any business activity that can be characterised as an industrial policy will not be financed. So that's quite a saying put into this law. Therefore, we cannot expect to finance the agricultural production that we should definitely finance because we almost cut our production from 30, 40 years ago in all sectors of agriculture and agricultural industries. So we have very bad times, and this is that these funds could somehow raise us to keep our heads above the water simply can't expect us to take into account the results of Juncker's plan and the structural funds of the Europeans, we're actually really going backwards all the time, so we can't expect that now these funds that aren't so extensive can save us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7869	Thank you. We're done with the replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn, please. Just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7870	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, MPs and MPs here I am the new parliamentary representative in this 10th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and I felt that we, as parliamentary representatives or MPs, were essentially creating how positive this will be in our beautiful country, and how negative it will be. We estimate how much optimism there is in the space. But it seems to me that none of the topics that are being discussed here, of course, I don't think we all have to think alike, that we all have to vote equally, but that we have to be a service to those who sent us here to the Croatian Parliament, so are our businessmen. The Corona crisis has done great damage to the Croatian economy, we heard about it last week, we heard Minister Maric about everything the coronary crisis has done when it comes to the domestic market and work and capital. This guarantee fund is certainly something that is needed and one of the crises and this crown crisis in history will perhaps be some other crisis that will require a single guarantee fund through which we will be able to finance and help those who need help most. This morning, at 4:30, I left my Vladimirs here for, according to Zagreb, it was dead dark and I was thinking all the way in the car what I, as an individual and representative in the Croatian Parliament, can do for the people who gave me, or have given us the confidence to represent them here in the Croatian Parliament. Many of the businessmen who come from Osijek-Baranja County, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem agree to this story when it comes to the guarantee fund. It is a good story, we will invest potentially 100 million, the possibility of achieving 800 million EUR certainly not easily earned money, it will need to be fought, but I believe that the game is well set and that our especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who need this help will find their own interest here. But we always perform with some other platforms, we always scare these same businessmen, we always scare the people that this is some kind of club again, that this is again something someone gets some kind of profit, it's not good. It's not good, it's our job to infuse optimism, to pass it on. I therefore believe that we are certainly doing good to the Croatian economy by doing good to those who are most needed. You've seen how approximately that money should be distributed when it comes to those who need it most. There is, of course, agriculture and a health sector has also been represented, which has also borne the important burden of this crisis corona which is happening and which will pass the moment we have, we have a vaccine. I therefore believe that we who are sitting here are those who are probably a little bit and read the materials that are written about, and not that, and perhaps, to resolve here a dilemma that is often being set up here, is being set up by my colleague Bulj, I come from Slavonia how many cows have tits, there are 4 guaranteed we no longer have to ask any MPs, or a representative how many cows there are 4, so that we can move on to important things, to move on to things that will improve Croatia's state, Croatian economy and in which finally people will get what our defenders have fought for and fought back in the early '90s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7871	Thank you. Mrs. Peovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7872	Well, a good colleague of mine is not quite clear to me, I must admit, which is our job here, is our job to infuse optimism as you said, to count how many tits there are cows, or maybe here our mission is primarily and only the most important thing that we see things real. It is not realistic to argue after 30 years of devastation of the domestic economy that another European fund will raise our production if it is meant and shaped and structured by the same criteria as all of them. What is realistic is therefore the decline in the complexity of domestic production. That's what we should have in mind. And the decline in the complexity of domestic production means the fall of wages, the fall of good jobs, the eviction of young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7873	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7874	Thank you, thank you. So I think that, basically, in my opening statement, I said that these are important topics, that these are the topics that we need to open up here, and one of these important topics is exactly what we're discussing by respecting everything that's happened throughout history, but by not repeating the mistakes that we've had in history, rather than going forward at last. I therefore believe that I am also leaving this position because I have talked to entrepreneurs from my county about this, they absolutely support this investment fund and I think it is something that is essentially good for them, and I am their voice here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7875	Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7876	Thank you. My colleague Ivanovic, I agree with you that you need optimism in life, in business, in everything. But in the economy, however, realism is far more important than optimism, mathematics that is an exact science because 2 and 2 is 4 which is very important in the economy that you know how to calculate your business well. But the problem is the parafiscal burdens that our businessmen have to pay for, the problem is too high tax burdens, too much taxation on employees, that's why our farmers are pessimistic, unless their company is called Elektrocenter Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7877	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7878	Thank you very much for this replica, so here we have witnessed here two weeks ago the amendment of a law that was the parafiscal categorization, we have reduced that contribution to the forests paid for by our businessmen and we have raised the censorship. A series of measures the government is preparing to release and to help our economies in this crisis where they have found themselves not only caused by the crisis but by the general crisis they are in. I believe that this government of Andrej Plenkovic is very much hearing about the economy, I believe that it is the government that may, for the first time in the last 10 or 15 years, seriously consider self-sustainability, about its economy to strengthen it, how to improve it, and how, of course, make it competitive and better, and of course I think of all the employees in that economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7879	Thank you very much. No more replicas, let's move on with the debates. Now it's Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues have heard a lot today in the debate of both good and bad things. Here's the last thing we heard was a fairy tale, which is that this government of Andrej Plenkovic is the first to seriously think about our economy, but well, sometimes we can have a little laugh. Back on the subject and speaking of the law that is before us, I would repeat what my colleague Mrak-Taritash said before me. I don't think there's really a person in this assembly who wouldn't raise her hand to help our economy. We can now talk about the structure of the economy, whether we've made mistakes or not, that might be a debate for one. the topic of a broader debate and we would certainly have something to say about it, but because the situation is what our structure is like, does that mean that we should not help the economy, does this mean that we should kill the economy, does it mean that we should not allow the economy to overcome this uncertain situation? My colleagues and colleagues, no one who wasn't an entrepreneur who people didn't depend on, who wasn't responsible for paying their wages can understand what that responsibility is, can understand how hard it is to get to every kuna and earn whatever activity they're dealing with, and then I believe that they can't even understand how much this kind of help means. When we talk about liquidity, and the liquidity is extremely important for our economy has always been and when you look at all the major crises have actually started in the Croatian economy because of the lack of liquidity. So when we talk about liquidity, it's extremely important. Our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs felt this crisis very, very, very strongly. We have to be so responsible for ourselves and them and at least try to help them. Try to help crafts that will allow them to survive, not only to survive but to survive others, others to whom they owe money, others to whom they delivered goods, services, etc., etc. Because we cannot view the economy as isolated, in fact we cannot even view entrepreneurs as an isolated subject on the market, it is linked to other market entities, consumers, and to the country where the tax is paid. If he can't service his expenses then other entrepreneurs, eventually the state also has a problem. That's why I think this should be supported. This is primarily an intervention aid, I would call it that. This is to help our economy or our entrepreneurs, in this case small and medium, survive this uncertain time. How long the crisis will take, and what its consequences will be, we will feel only in months to come, so that's far from the end of the story. As has been said before, experts have been saying will end the crisis quickly, comes a warmer time, the virus will not spread, but the virus has shown to spread greatly. We get winters when we spend more time in closed spaces, when the virus will spread easier, which will then be the same is one big question. As with this "new normal" we will return, let me dare say so on "normal", and until then we have to survive colleagues and colleagues. I could now talk about how nice it is for us and how we don't care where our money comes from when it's paytime, but many entrepreneurs worry about paying their employees' wages, how they'll serve their expenses, how they'll pay their bills, how they'll direct it, and how they'll pay the taxes from which our salaries are financed. That's why I think this is a drop in the sea, but it's better and a drop than nothing to help in this not-so-great moment. What is more important maybe than this because this is just one segment of help and one segment of European money available to us. What's even more important is how we plan in the future and here comes to the agenda, let's say that on the table and this topic that's started on the structure of the economy, which is, of course, I'm talking about the EU's multiannual financial framework, I'm talking about our development strategy, the national one I can't wait to see, and I'm finally talking about operational programmes that will help us withdraw the funds available from the EU. In this case, in this process, in programming and in national strategy, we can discuss any reforming or directing our economy for another time. Now I think it's exceptional to say this except for what needs to be said is that our economy and our entrepreneurs need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7881	Thank you, too. You stay here, you have a few replicas, the first replica is asked for by Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7882	I would just like to warn you that this humanitarian rhetoric "help entrepreneurs" because we have no other way is exactly what brings our social majority into this situation where we find ourselves, poor jobs, job shortages, low wages and eviction. This humanitarian rhetoric has no other way we just need to take over what the EU is throwing at us like crumbs, and it has brought us where we are. Autonomous economic and economic policy is what our social majority can save and get out of the crisis, and let's not help them by the rules that we can't change by you and what are the only possible ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7883	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7884	Thank you very much. Well, then, colleague Peovic, what's your suggestion? Let's not help anyone, let's let everyone go to waste, let's choke some jobs. Is that an alternative that's acceptable? I ended my debate exactly what you were talking about, so it's not like I don't see what the problem is, I see, but to this kind of intervention, which is primarily intervening and temporary we can't, at least not through it, talk about the development and direction of the Croatian economy. We can go through planning, we can go through a national strategy, we can go through programming, that even then we actually get to the other fact, which is that strat, we don't access almost anything. To ask those responsible who lead the government where they see the Croatian economy for 4 years, in which branches should be invested, where they see, I don't know, not only the Croatian economy but also the Croatian interests in general, they will not be able to answer you. We're starting from the wrong transitions, we need to think strategically, and in this case it's an intervention aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7885	Thank you. Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7886	My colleague, I answered the line when you mentioned that this might be a drop in the sea and you said it well. And I picked up the most for the reason that I could answer here and those who were racing on the left and right and they were kind of making these clashes because one of those drops at sea, I was still witnessing the other day there was a submersion, or the 3rd of May transfer of the number. A lot of drops make the economy strong, and this government and at this point we all have to think about how to help, this law goes that way. And that drop is one of the drops in a series of drops that we all have to do together to push the economy forward, to have more of these ships, to have more of these investments launched by the government of the Republic of Croatia about the construction of the Peljega Bridge, for the second tube of Učka tunnel, for here, the third rescue of the 3rd May, in the future, I hope, and the Uljanica. I think those drops are doing what should finally end with all the heads that They're dividing to the left and right. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7887	Thank you. Before, yes, but before we had a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I must give priority to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7888	Infringement of Rules of Procedure, 238, I'd like to ask you to intervene. 238 I would ask that the Vice-President be intervened because he should not and cannot in the Croatian Parliament belittle MPs and MPs by saying that they are racing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And then after that, list the excellent results of Croatian shipbuilding in the year in which we are highest on the scale of the decline in industrial production in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7889	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The same violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull. Did you put a breach on the Rules of Procedure? No, you're not. ... No, no, wait, wait, wait, wait. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, answer the line, I didn't see any injuries to the Rules of Procedure because there was a lot of it, a lot of it more difficult said today, and I didn't intervene, but.../incomprehensible/... of course, I agree that we lower our tones and talk about the subject and that we don't disrespect MPs and MPs. Here you are, Mr. Hajdukovic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, buddy, I'm not afraid to support anything that's good, no matter what the proposer comes from, whether it's the government, it's a group of MPs, it's my club. And I think you should push in that direction, you say a lot of drops, I'd say a lot of grains maybe. So if we have a lot of grains, we're finally going to get a cake, and it's that our economy survives and, yes, continues to work and survive these difficult times. I just wish there was the same enthusiasm on your side of the assembly, because when you were in the opposition, you didn't exactly show up to support what's good. You were against everything, even what was good and what was bad, and even the lawyer's report, etc., which are things that are unclear to me, but good. I'm glad you noticed this, and I believe that in the future you'll really support everything that's good and that comes from this side of the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7891	Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Hajdukovic. The government of Andrej Plenkovic has been defined as health security since the beginning, but has already invested 30 billion kunas in the interest of Croatian workers and Croatian economies in March through a package of 63 measures. When we talk about the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, it was a pleasure to listen to Mr. Lalovac, a former finance minister who clarified the importance and this is just one of the benefits of Croatian participation in the EU. In the last session there were suggestions that education should look like Cuba, today we hear proposals, which is quite legitimate, about an economy that looks more like a Venecueli, and these are quite legitimate proposals, but despite all the challenges we face, I think the relevant political parties will be in favour of the pan-European guarantee fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7893	Thank you very much. Wait, just a moment, Mr. Hajdukovic, because Mr. Bulj is now in violation of the Rules of Procedure, here's the article and what.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7894	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow Cellic has injured an article. Rule 238, because it says the government that when it talks about security, that it's safe for the Republic of Croatia to pass through the border, whatever anyone wants, wherever anyone wants, as far as workers and workers are concerned, it doesn't exist, so there has to be safety because we don't have any more workers, the workers are destroyed, so by liberalising the Foreigners Act, you've allowed no quotas, so everything is safe to enter. who wants to go to the Republic of Croatia... [[/Intruder: Time. Time.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7895	I won't give you a warning, but there's no way out of the Rules of Procedure. I won't, I won't give you a warning this time. ... Please. .../incomprehensible... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Peovic, and then Mr. Cellic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7896	The violation of Rules of Procedure of 232 colleagues did not stick to the subject at all. So this is about Venezuela, some proposals that come out of the opposition that are not even mentioned, I've never heard anyone say here today, Venezuela except for HDZ representatives, so we should stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7897	Thank you very much. .../incomprehensible/... that does not apply to art at all. 232. ... It's a first, and second, no, no, let me decide whether or not to make warnings. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7898	Well, the Rules of Procedure have been injured, sir. 238. I'm not so competent and as a colleague Bully,... I said, 238nd colleague Bulj is therefore a kind of politician who speaks absolutely of all topics, so I'm sorry that you didn't understand what that means to the health security of citizens, look at the scoreboard, you like sports as a Maligan fan, so look at the scoreboard. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Look at one Sweden with 6 thousand dead And look at the numbers. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] in Croatia, 294 [[Thank you, thank you.]] So you'll see what that means. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And I'm glad my colleague recognized her. [[Mr. Cellic, I'm going to have to give you a warning.]] Nice to meet you. [[Intruder: Mr. Cellic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7899	No, no, please, we now have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I'll give you, I'm bound to give it to you but I'm telling you, I haven't seen any injuries to the Rules of Procedure here and now we'll see where you've seen them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7900	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Celić would like me to say what someone would write to him, but I will not be allowed to do so, so I will not allow myself to do so, so I am giving up the injury of the Rules of Procedure because simply no one will ever write me what I am going to say to you, my colleague Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7901	I left it all to the end to speak, you have a warning, Mr. Bull. ... And that's a second warning. [[I don't understand.]] That's a second warning. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7902	Here's to correct last time, I'm sorry I did the wrong item of the Rules of Procedure, the 238th is the one that... I will, I will refer to him, so again the same thing, I warn that my colleague Celic is not sticking to the topic that is being discussed here and the point we are discussing. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7903	Many Stick to Themes Many stick to the subject and Mr. Bulj if he wants me to answer him why he got the warning, because he still talked for 20 seconds about not saying no to the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Bull: Stick to what was written to him, Cellic sticks to what was written to him.]] So that's why you got the warning. Please. [[I'm just saying, I'm giving up on the Rules of Procedure. I have to explain why I'm giving up.]] Let's go for the reply to the replica, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7904	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Celić, many of whom are actually called sovereigns and I don't know here clear his ideological definitions for this speaker, forget who are actually benefits in EU membership. You've noticed that this is one of them. It's exclusively up to us how we're going to use these mechanisms, only on us, how we're going to plan, where we're going to direct the money, how we're going to share it, and who. It's absolutely up to us. I'm not talking specifically about this mechanism, I'm speaking in general. So we have to trust ourselves, in our minds, that this money that is ours or that is allocated to us, we spend in the best way that will fit our economy, our opportunities and that we will spend and direct where we want our economy to go in this case, so our economy is going. So, the benefits are great, this is one of them, but I'm telling you, it's up to us to plan how we want to use these benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7905	And at the end of the day, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7906	Dear Representative, I would like to welcome your quality debate that has actually come after a truly realistic assessment of the situation in the Republic of Croatia as regards the economy, as regards our businessmen and our craftsmen and privates, and would draw attention to these criticisms that we currently have here and debates, namely that we are a representative and legislative body, and I don't really know what use we are in the adoption of the law when we mention some of the merits of the alleged government, when we mention the problems that the prime minister, which our president has, people, are here to discuss the law. That's your job. Let's concentrate and let's make a quality law. And these discussions don't lead anywhere. What, in what direction, what have we contributed to this debate, what have we improved this country? Nothing, nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7907	Thank you, time. Answer, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7908	Well, thank you for your colleagues, although there have been really good discussions about this speaker, you can't say, so there are people who understand what they're talking about and what they're talking about but there are always these topics, or there's always this law in this case, the possibility of opening up some other topics. It has always been so in this assembly and the chairmans have been able to tolerate it but I'd rather talk about the future. And that's why I spent a good part of my debate on just saying that, now I'm going to be a parrot but sometimes you have to repeat to get something because they say that repeating is the mother of knowledge and let me, I was a teacher in my past life. So, National development strategies, programming, the way we will target money is what is crucial for the next 7 years in Croatia. We need to talk more about this speaker and this is the intervention aid that we're going to give our masters to survive and I don't think there's any reason we can't help them if we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7909	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Let's move on with the individual debates. Vesna Vucilović, please. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7910	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the motionary representative and the esteemed colleague and fellow Members. We've all been hearing about two main goals since this health crisis started, the preservation of jobs and the liquidity of the system. Some may have wondered why we economists are all talking about this. Probably because we learned a lesson from the past crisis, a financial one that was in 2008, 2009 and when the EU strongly promoted the savings policy, which was then embraced by the Government of Z. Milanovic and after a while, everyone saw that this had been throwing us into a recession significantly longer, so we recovered some 6.7 years from the consequences of this financial crisis, which is in fact similar to the current health crisis in our economy, pointed to certain structural problems that our economy has. Maybe that's why this debate went a little bit more broadly because objectively looking at what the promoter has given us is financially, from a financial point of view, a good job if you can let me put it that way. So as one of the founders, we invest a certain amount, and we get, we have the opportunity to withdraw significantly larger funds. Of course, it's basically something that's desirable, more so that it should preserve the liquidity primarily of that small and medium-sized economy. Now, what's all this debate about, and what's the big deal? It is disputed that what is invested goes from a state budget in which we all know that the main charger is VAT, so all of us, in some way, are paying off food in that state budget, and the funds are going to be shared by a certain key. And we heard a fellow Highdukovic who likes to talk about the future and it's nice to be facing the future, but he who doesn't learn from his past is in danger of repeating the mistakes that have been made in the past. Let's demystify that small and medium-sized enterprise. So it has its meaning but it does not need to be given meaning that it does not have, so to say that it is the spine, spine, etc., the figures that it is 97% of business entities that are both accurate and wrong at the same time. If you count them, there's probably a lot of them, so you can get to that stake of 97%, but if you're looking at business revenues, then you come to what we all economists know is that both small and medium entrepreneurship unless it's lean and it's not working for big economic operators it's hard to have a future. There's one more question to ask. How good is what is good for the EU, the EU economy, an economy such as one Germany, good and for the Croatian economy because of the structure that we have and which is significantly different from the structure of these large economies? So if you look at certain recommendations coming up now that the funds from the recovery plan should go about 30% for the green plan, 20% for digitisation, the question might be right for us, maybe not. So these are some open dilemmas that are always imposed through this kind of debate. I also want to say a little bit about the funds that have been invested through the funds so far, and why we might be careful, why we have doubts, and here I'm going to list just something from the Slavonia project where we see that the Vodovod Osijek is more than 200 million kunas of a number of companies dealing with similar businesses have also withdrawn and then you see that it's actually all as expensive as it is and as much as we'll probably all support it, it leaves certain dilemmas, problems and issues to discuss which it is here and we've been discussing all day. I see the time is up, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7911	Thank you. Stay here because you have several replicas. The first line was sought by Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7912	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrs. Vucilović, in your debate, you started to really learn in history, but we all know that every generation somehow thinks that it's much smarter than that generation before and doesn't listen to it all together, but is trying to really solve things on its own, not looking at its own history. But my replica wasn't on the subject. So we here have a very clear proposal and we have very clear conditions that are, the theme is that we are in a situation where there is no solution, there is no country that will give a solution. Croatia is an EU member and I am somehow certain that it should see what is best for it and that we should take care of the liquidity of those who work. Other programs to encourage Some new activities, but really take care of those who do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7913	Thank you very much, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7914	I thank you for the question of colleagues, respected colleagues Mrak Taritash, and I fully agree with you especially in this part of it, is that we need to learn from our past and that we need to help the companies that work, who hire to get through these difficult times that they've been in. But I'll also give you an example of where Spectre is simple d.o.o. means the founding capital of 10 kuna from the project for Slavonia received a million kuna based on innovation of newly established small and medium-sized enterprises. So we're asking the question and that criterion and it would be nice to finally follow the outcomes, so we're, we're talking about one proposal here now, but what happens later is it always sort of stays vague and unarranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7915	Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7916	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues are my past profession, I'm a history teacher, so I'm going to tell you as a history teacher that history repeats itself and that we're doomed to repeat very often what we don't learn from it, but good. So you've said this well, we're investing and we have a chance to pull a lot more, but I'd put an emphasis on this we have an opportunity, it's.../incomprehensible/... because everything depends on us. When it comes to European money, it's up to us, our ability, our proactiveness, our vision of how we want to withdraw that money. And the second question he would ask you, which may be rhetorical and not, and how many large business entities in Croatia? You have an international company that employs thousands of people in France, Slovakia, Germany, you know how much they employ in Croatia, 5. So, to demystify a little and medium entrepreneurship yes, but the fact is that they are still the backbone of our economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7917	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7918	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic and I hope that history in all things will not happen again, because especially this one from that last 20th century is not, she's had a lot of war conflicts and it wouldn't be very good to do it all over again, it would be good to learn something from that history. And when we talk about large economic entities, there are them, not that they're not there, you have those reports, you have the largest 500, etc., only in Osijek-Baranja County when we talk about large business entities, there are the Inex Group and Belje and a whole series of other entities. So it's important small and medium entrepreneurship, but it really doesn't need to be given meaning that it doesn't have and doesn't belong to it, although in Italy and Germany it's also very powerful, so here we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7919	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7920	Thank you very much. My colleague, you yourself have said that this agreement, i.e. This law, which has been proposed before us to make up the fine figures, the lack of facts, is talked about 200 million, is about entrepreneurs, small, medium. But at this point, it's a pigeon on the branch. Our lordship's small, medium, entrepreneur, our hospitality now the triba lurks in our hand. As long as it is fulfilled and if the experience from the EU funds is fulfilled, it says that we have not absolutely used EU funds, that we are on the EU tail, the last to use EU funds, and that the criteria of this, from this, these funds and how to allocate funds, who knows what will be. But at this point, Croatian tourism, the economy, agriculture, lurking in the hand to survive in general, general that we have someone to give this money to later, that's the problem, and this is all the rest of the fog and the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7921	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7922	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, you are right, the entrepreneurs complain, especially small and medium, that the funds they need to get for liquidity from that package from the 3rd month through HAMAG-BICRO are quite late, means approvals, let alone payments, and to them funds for, in order to overcome this crisis they need right away. I understand both your doubts and I fully agree with you when you talk about both the criteria and the allocation of funds, only the affairs of last week, Janaf, before that Krš-Padjene, talk about certain corrupt clientalist business models and the question is how many more of these Fridays and such companies are all over Croatia and how widespread this model is, but as legalists let the institutions do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7923	Mr. Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7924	Thank you, Vice President. Here, my colleague, you have unequivocally said that we are getting more money from the EU than we are giving, and here in the assembly we are actually hearing that we are all getting it, that we should give it back to the EU, so please tell the public once again whether we are benefiting from the EU and whether our economy will profit from the money it gets from the EU? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7925	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7926	I appreciate the question. My colleague, the fact is that EU membership has many benefits. It is up to us to see and fight to use them in a way that will be best in the development of our economy and in the interest of Croatian citizens. In any case, a colleague of Lalovac spoke about the funds that would have been available to us if we had already entered the Eurozone. Those are the facts, so those about 10 billion we could still pull if we were in the Eurozone. You all know my position on entry, the introduction of the EUR, so they are mostly macroeconomic, not financial. So, from a financial point of view, that's good, but when I look at it as a macro-economyist, I think it's a problem, and we're not ready for it. But anyway, if we could benefit from membership, we could, let's not fool ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7927	And Mr. Klaric at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7928	Dear colleagues, I like to talk about concrete examples and experiences are different. But what is positive and what needs to be learned is exactly the example that I personally could witness because you mentioned small and medium. In the last 3 years. In my area, small and medium have withdrawn some 60 million kuna of grants. The result is close to 500 new jobs. Now, if we're talking about big and small or medium, I think every step of this is just apostrophe of that previous line of my "cap in the sea", a lot of these drops is exactly what we can talk about, the development of the economy, the jobs and the staying of young people in this area. And that's why this bill is going in this direction and out of its personal experience 10 years ago and over, here's our colleague Branko, when EBO's were in effect more than European funds, the mass of projects are done in a much easier and faster way which are now in some way real benefits for the economy in the whole area [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] RH. [[Aggression: Thank you, answer]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7929	I appreciate the question. A colleague, the fact is that the economy is one complex system and cannot be seen in a partial way, not only large, not only small, not single, not single-minded, but all together and work together so that both can survive on the market. These funds are good because they are intended because we know that most of the money from the funds goes into about 80 percent, and Minister Maric announced new ones that will go right to the public sector, to water supply, draining, etc., so these are the funds that our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs expect. I will give you just one example from the Slavonia Project where more than 100 million kuna is invested in Osijek KBC, and a new one that will cost a billion kuna is announced. Here, let's say one example where people ask themselves a question, and why, right? What's a $100 million investment for now, and you're gonna build a new one for a billion kuna? And these are some of the doubts that a colleague of mine has about [[Intruder: Thank you]] He's talking. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7930	No more replicas. Thank you. And no more individual debates. We move to the closing words of the representatives' clubs, first of all, is Mr. Tomislav Tomašević, who will speak in front of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7931	There was a lot being said in this debate, and then I'm going to expand this final exhibit a little bit. I think the crisis was caused by COVID-19, in fact, a lacmus paper for everything that is wrong in the Croatian economy, and also in the EU economy, so that it has shed a fine light on all the weaknesses and how much if we want to move to Croatia dependent on different sectors such as tourism, how vulnerable we are, how much we have neglected production, how much we cannot even produce our own food for our own needs in these crises, and it will certainly be more regrettable because of the climate change and other crises that await us, and there will probably be other epidemiological threats in the future. We cannot produce our own food, we cannot produce enough disinfectants, we cannot produce equipment, we cannot even introduce medical equipment because it was even a suspended market of medical goods during the epidemic, and then some EU Member States banned other Member States from exporting their private companies to respirators and such equipment, so it was also seen that the EU is solidarity, as much as those principles on which it is built, such as free market. There it was seen that in the end in such threats everyone took care of himself. However, this is the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, I think the money required of Croatia is small compared to what we can withdraw from the fund, that these 106m euros is not much since Croatia as we know... 43% of the EIB's co-owner, and this has become the only thing that joined the EU in 2013 and there is no problem. What I think is the problem is what Agent Lalovac was talking about when he talked about how unfortunately private banks did not want to participate in solving liquidity problems, and there is something that we need to ask ourselves a lot about what this means for future crises, and future financial crises and the future economic crisis will also be. So private banks didn't want to help the economy in the liquidity problem, I'm glad that we didn't even at most clubs get rid of this neoclassical economic orthodox because it seems to me that most of the clubs didn't call for any austerity measures like we unfortunately had when we got out of the last crisis in 2008, so we got out of this crisis for ten years and we're not even on the number of employees we had in 2007, so we haven't yet reached a recovery since 2007. And that's what I think the main problem is because the question is raised as follows, if in Croatia and the EU business and private banks didn't want to place their money to help the economy get through this liquidity, and the others don't have more than to borrow and I think it's okay, then the question is whether we need to use public money now and re-place it over the same private and business banks with their margin and profit instead of having that public money to end up in the economy and help with the liquidity of the economy, for example, via HBOR. Then why don't we have the public money that we have to place now because the private banks didn't want to place private money, so why don't we go through the public bank and then do it, so there's no profit from the business banks? Now, I think it is a key issue in this debate, and it would be good to start dealing with such topics, because I fear that no matter how we get out of this crisis and how long this pandemic lasts, this will not be the first or the last crisis where we will have to find mechanisms to change the structure of the economy, how to make it more autonomous if you want, more so that we can still rely on some of our production capacities and supplies, how to make the financial system more robust, or more stable and resistant to some external shocks, and then how to also open such a debate within the EU because we are committed, we will not even without a fiscal union that still doesn't exist at EU level, but we are still tied to financial shocks within the least of the European Monetary Union, but also the whole EU. So I would like it to become the main topics and that is something that is bothering us in this agreement that I say is not a problem in money and of course it is a good job for Croatia in relation to what we can withdraw, but it opens up some other questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7932	Thank you. If no one has a problem, we'll end up with the clubs in closing words and then we'll move on to the point of view. Okay. Madam, yes, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7933	Dear Mr Furio Radin, vice president of HS. I'm referring to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. 228. In fact, encouraged by the surprise and very early completion of the session that will end within the hour, I guess. I wonder why it's not possible for at least one dozen of the opposition laws we've asked for to come on the agenda, which collect dust in drawers, and we'd like to talk about them. And I think we're all here to work and if possible, here [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7934	Time, I won't make any warnings, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so keep that in mind for your next violation of the Rules of Procedure. So no one would mind going with the clubs any further. Mrs Grozdana Peric will speak finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7935	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I just need a few more words about today's subject. It is indeed strange that some colleagues question the quality and importance of these funds that we have the ability to withdraw and exploit in the best possible way. If we just remember that the EIB, therefore the European Investment Bank, has been operating in Croatia since 1977 and that in this period over 6.5 billion euros of funds that were then certainly under very different conditions, then now that we are a full member of the EU and thus the EIB in a ratio which, therefore, is now able to access much cheaper funds and help everyone who needs to do so and create and really focus in a way to create the best possible conditions through our institutions such as HBOR or HAMAG Bicro and thus help entrepreneurs. What needs to be said is that the HBOR has been working together and withdrawing a large part of the funds through the EIB and having significant placements in the development of our economy. What needs to be noted, and it is often questioned how good our membership is, whether we make use of it or not, it should be said that as of August of this year, the difference between the funds paid in the EU budget and what has been paid in our budget has been positive for 28.6 billion kuna since 2013. So we have made more income for the 28.6 billion kuna compared to what we have invested, so this is in that part of the funds related to EU membership, which should certainly be noted once more. And it is really up to us and our institutions and our entrepreneurs to create the best projects possible and thus make economic growth and development happen. This is an exceptional situation that here, just by membership, we provide access to cheaper means, we participate and we decide how it will be channeled, how it will be used, and I think that we must be very active and help ourselves first because the one who helps himself helps others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7936	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj will deliver the final word of the Independent Lists Bridge Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7937	Thank you very much. Here at the end, on behalf of the Bridge Club, I'd say I'm surprised that most colleagues say why someone's questioning this decision that, let's say, is fairytale, what makes it so fairytale? Due to past experiences, dear colleague Peric. Due to past experiences with alleged European money paid by Croatian citizens. We talk about experiences and talk about current results. We will take the day of entry into the EU to this day. We will go according to all the items of economic, demographic, agriculture, according to all the items and, of course, when we talk about this, about this agreement, about the guarantee, then we need to talk about Croatian, Croatian banks. We need to talk about whether this money will really come to Croatian banks that pump up our money, pump up money in this crown crisis that doesn't want them pumping into our economy. But we'll give them another commission and with this money, if that money comes, it's still a pigeon on the branch. Croatian tourism, tourist workers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, at this point, if the state can give anything, it was a stalker on the branch, a sparrow, anything. We're throwing ourselves here, basically throwing ourselves at big stories and a big story and hope has to exist. In the Croatian people, hope is lost. That's why, here, there was a moment ago the mayor of Imotski, the mayor of Drnis, in my Sinj, in all of Slavonia, a colleague, if you discovered how many cows there are tits to, but they get you incentives right in Slavonia, you get incentives from those who don't know how many cows have tits. And even on my junk, on my junk they get those incentives for cattle and cows who don't know how many cows there are tits, they don't even know, and we share that money that way. We don't divide by a liter of milk, by the number of cattle, by this one, by that one, so let's give that incentive to that man to survive in that area. 24 schools have been shut down in Imotski, so much in my Chetino area, there are no, deleted areas. And we're boasting about a lot of investments here and.../incomprehensible... so let's be realistic. Now he expects a Croatian businessman, entrepreneur, worker, because we won't have until this is a turn. We won't have a farmer, we won't have a small and medium-sized entrepreneur. That's the problem, he has to survive right now. Because he is not responsible for Covid, and Covid has only exposed the bad policies in Croatia that were implemented under.../incomprehensible/... when we enter the EU there will be stars, there will be money, I repeat again, and I will repeat to you my colleagues from HDZ I see that you have been loudly defending everything you, which the great leader writes to you. At this point Croatia is at the bottom of the withdrawal of European funds from all members, Malta was one time now Croatia. And that's a fact. And we have agreed on an amount of 103%, we can negotiate every day but by 2023, these projects must be in this budget period of 2014. - 2020. The EU will be completed by 2023. So we can't solve the agglomeration of the project in my Sinj, in my Sinj we can't project but open sewerage, goes to the river Cetina, so in the river Krka, Krka National Park, so everywhere. And we have a problem, people, we have a problem, we have an empty Croatia. We're in a huge problem right now. Croatian institutions do not function, if everything happens as it is in the club, here are the last days much more important, if Minister Coric is forgotten, Minister They forget now is only the prominent president of the Republic, but we forget our ministers, environmental ministers and the threat to the economy of Coric, but he forgets Butkovic. Now there's more talk of who's what to whom at the level of MPs, presidents, me this, forgets the point, forgets the point, and you know what the point is, if the money they were dealing there is money. I don't care what the president said to the president, I don't care what the president said, I don't care where the money is. And this is good Andrej Plenkovic done, no one mentions him anymore. He's not him, he's not his minister. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7938	Thank you very much. Finally, the position will be the final position of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr Domagoj Hajdukovic. And let's hope we're done with the controversy of how many cows have tits.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, we had a lot of sense today, so some of us may have found out how many cows have boobs, but we're good to go back to the subject. So here we are talking about the Pan-European Guarantee Fund which we are part of and very often as I said and in the debate we forget about the benefits we have from EU membership. Very often those who call themselves or like to call themselves sovereigns or I don't know how they tell us how bad it is that we are members of the EU, but this is one example, one of the levers and mechanisms that could not be used if we are not a member of the EU and that we are not part of this great European family. There I would like to underline in the end a few more things that I think are important to say and with which we need to conclude this debate, which is that given what we're going to invest, we have the opportunity to withdraw a lot of funds. However, I stress this very second part of the sentence, we have the possibility. It is very much up to us, and I would not agree with colleagues and colleagues who withdraw, or our percentage, how much money we have withdrawn from the European Funds that have been available to us in the last financial, multi-annual financial framework assesses good. I wouldn't agree with that, we could withdraw, much, much more and responsibility is exclusively upon us as it will be in this case, and I'm afraid that without a clear vision, without a clear goal to which we are going and without preparedness we won't go well now. And that is what we need to radically change in our policy in general and in accession, in fact, primarily European money, and we need to learn to plan it in the long term, as well as the EU has a multi-annual financial framework, and we need to have a clear vision where and how we want to spend that money. Whether it'll be better done now, I don't know, I'm skeptical, but alive they've seen. In any case, through this mechanism we can help the economy, we can help small and medium-sized enterprises, first of all, preserve liquidity, so that we continue to have a liquidity cycle or payment of liabilities in our economy, and that is what the economy will actually get away with because, as I said before, every time the liquidity remains in Croatian, in the Croatian economy or market, there would be a crisis. This crisis is impossible to predict how long it will last, it is impossible to predict all the consequences that the crisis will have, so I think that liquidity and aid in the preservation of liquidity is of paramount importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-01-0.u7940	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Good morning, everyone. First, before we move on to the discussion of the points planned today, in accordance with paragraph 2. Business, I will propose an addition to the agenda of the 3rd session with 7 new points that you all received by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. First of all, does one of the MPs have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under point 2 of the proposed supplement, which is the proposal for a Law on the Medical Procedure of Pregnant Pregnancy with the final draft law, and the proposed SDP Representatives Club, does anyone object? No, then that law will be passed according to an emergency procedure according to Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. I think the points you've been given are electronic, that they've been introduced into the agenda. How appropriate. 225. paragraph 4. There were no rules of procedure of written objections at the remaining points of the draft agenda supplementation, and I note that all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 3rd session.
